ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Administrative Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. The matter was put on the table today at the plenary session on 7 April 2021. Let's go talk to him. — — — — Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u2	Mr President! The show rested on the table for a while, and it's time for another garbage rise. After all, this waste law has been dealt with for a long time and a great deal, and I think it is now up to Parliament to do the rest. Finland is a pioneer in the circular economy in many ways. However, we are not a model student, but we could do more. The collection of paper or bottles is a well-known recycling activity for Finland, but there is still much room for improvement in the recycling of plastics, for example. The Government's proposal increases recycling and implements new EU legislation. There is no doubt that when a lot of familiar products leave the range or change shape. The paper straw may not be optimal for milkshake, but I think we can handle it too. We will also be able to bear the fact that the cotton sticks that contain plastic will change as we strain the ear clean, or on the grill we will spoon sausage potatoes, where the fork is no longer plastic. President! There are relatively few Finns in terms of population and our share of natural resource consumption is small. However, per capita consumption is high. However, the future does not have to appear frightening, but we can also view it as a challenge that can be solved. The circular economy provides not only a solution to over-consumption but also opportunities for Finnish companies and innovations. One visible success can be the reduction or disappearance of landfills. Only about 1% of municipal waste will end up in landfill. Currently, the majority of municipal waste is used as energy in waste power plants. However, actual recycling is not a question of incineration. Recycling accounts for about 40 per cent of municipal waste treatment in Finland. It is possible to improve this clearly by, among other things, more precise sorting and separate collection of waste. The Government aims to increase the share of recycling to 65% by 2035. I think that's a good goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u5	Like this. — and Mr Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u6	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a new Waste Act includes many good environmental improvements in waste treatment and continues along the same path, which has led to a sharp decline in landfill treatment in Finland during the 21st century. However, there is a wrong side of the bill which will significantly change the market in this sector. One of the central points of the government's proposal is the abolition of the current double system in the case of recycled waste and the transfer to municipal waste transport. However, in the case of the transport of mixed municipal waste and precipitate and sealed sludge, the dual system would remain in force. In practice, if the owner of the property has himself put in competition and chosen the transport operator, the tenders would be carried out by the municipalities in the future. The client would no longer choose the operator. The Government has justified the partial dismantling of the dual system, including the tightening of recycling requirements, the inefficiency of fragmented responsibilities and the lack of strong evidence of the competitive impact of the dual system. Mr President! I do not believe that the government's arguments are sustainable in this regard. Firstly, the transport system has not been shown to be relevant to the recycling rate. The colour of the car or its owner does not affect the survival of the obligations. In the case of transport organised by the property owner, all the same sorting methods are possible as in the case of municipal transport, including block and other block rounding solutions. Secondly, it is quite clear that the government's proposal puts the livelihood of many entrepreneurs at risk, but also of the professionals who work for them. Small, face-to-face environmental companies are therefore leaving the waste management map. Public tendering sounds good, clear and cost-effective, but it is known that competition is usually won by a national or international major player. As a result of the competitions, the entrepreneur and the customer can no longer agree on the service, even if the parties wish to do so. Environmental actions are needed, but at the same time employment and the economy could be promoted. That would be a genuine green transition. The Government's proposal for a double system is consistent with the logic of its own green transition: to drive domestic companies out of business and transfer money to multinational companies. I understand that, in principle, the left-wing government does not want entrepreneurs to be involved in eco-making, as, for example, the preparation of social services has been marked by negative entrepreneurial proposals. Why does the Centre Party of Finland bless all of this? Mr President! Free competition between transport companies of different sizes is definitely the best solution from the point of view of entrepreneurship, the environment and customers. The Government's proposal on the partial burst of the dual system and the concentration of competitions in municipalities means the opposite. The question is whether we can afford to reduce entrepreneurship and employment in the midst of the economic crisis, even when the economic benefits or efficiency of a centralised transport model for municipalities have not even been demonstrated. As a representative of the business community, I have to give a low grade to this bill. The Minister for the Environment has pushed for a change that undermines entrepreneurship, regardless of other views, and the impact assessments on entrepreneurship are exhausted. In my opinion, the law cannot be adopted as it is without undermining the spirit of the regional economy, employment and the freedom of choice of the customer. The law must therefore be re-prepared. Finally, when there is a minister here, I would like to ask: why is it that only an impact assessment has been carried out unilaterally in the context of this law?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u7	Congressman Essayah is gone. — Representative Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u8	Ärade talman, Mr President! The reform of the waste law that is under discussion has aroused a great deal of emotion today and has been doing so for years. I remember, for example, when there was a twist about ten years ago when I was a special assistant. In addition to this, the issues of waste and its management and competitive tendering also raise a major regional debate. The bill implements the Government Programme's circular economy objectives and implements EU legislation at the same time. There are therefore a number of pieces in this package, and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy we will be hearing a wide range of experts, and in fact we have already started hearings today. It is also a good thing that the other committees are looking at this large-scale package. Currently, there are regional differences, even large ones, in the recovery of waste in Finland. The revision of the Waste Act aims to make wider use of municipal and packaging waste, but also, for example, construction and demolition waste. According to the Finnish Environment Agency, the recycling rate of municipal waste was 43 per cent in 2019. There is still a long way to go to raise this figure, and the Waste Act is expected to increase recycling between 5% and 10%. Another key change in the Waste Act concerns the transport of waste. I personally welcome the amendment of the regulation on mixed waste transport from the original proposal after the consultation. Small and medium-sized enterprises operating for decades in the waste sector must be able to operate on the market. There are unfortunate stories in our country where small and medium-sized enterprises have had to stop with centralised tendering. As is the case today, the holder of the property will continue to order the transport of mixed waste himself. My view is that bio-waste recycling in particular should be increased. Biowaste could also increasingly be used as transport fuel, biogas. True, many Finns are not yet used to sorting biowaste. For further clarification, a direct quote from a government proposal, page 39: ‘Biowaste separate collection
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u9	Mr President! The amount of waste we produce is a tangible indication that the way we consume our natural resources is unsustainable. Finland’s over-consumption day will be celebrated next Saturday 10 April this year. By reducing the amount of waste and increasing the recycling rate, we reduced the over-consumption of natural resources, which is the root cause of climate change and natural disaster. This revision of the Waste Act will significantly boost the circular economy and make it easier for households to recycle. The aim is to increase waste recovery, reduce emissions and create new jobs in Finland. With this performance, more than 50 per cent of Finns come under separate collection of glass, board, metal and plastic and 65 per cent into separate collection of biowaste. The proposal aims to increase the recycling rate of municipal waste from the current high-sounding 40% to 65% by 2035. This is a significant recycling leap. Mr President! The reform sets out new waste recycling and separate collection targets and obligations. In particular, paper, glass and metal already circulate well in Finland. We face a particular challenge of recycling plastics, and other problematic verses are wood and textiles. According to the EU target, half of the packaging plastic waste placed on the market must be recycled by 2025. Separate collection of textile waste will start in Finland in 23. With the new Waste Act, recycling in households will increase. All properties of more than five dwellings will be subject to a separate collection obligation: biowaste must be collected from July 22, glass, metal, plastic and board in a year's time, starting from July 23. And the obligation to collect biowaste will be extended by July 24 to all residential properties in urban areas with more than 10,000 inhabitants. Of course, biowaste from a detached house can still be collected in its own compost, and it is also very desirable for both the environment and the yard. In order to increase the recycling rate, however, it is essential that waste collected separately for the preparation or recycling of re-use should no longer be landfilled or burned. This prohibition does not apply to a residue which has proved unusable in the recycling process, nor does the law impose quantitative restrictions on this residue, but it is of course essential for the recycling rate to be kept to a minimum, and therefore, for example, the possibilities for recycling and further processing of plastics must be further developed and the recycling of plastics must also be imposed, for example, by imposing a blending obligation. Mr President! Recycling is an important part of the solution to the waste problem, but it is even more important to reduce the amount of waste generated. We must move from a linear economy to a circular economy. It means minimising the use of virgin resources by making efficient use of raw materials and keeping materials in use for as long as possible. It is important to include in the EU Waste Directive provisions requiring Member States to take action to reduce the quantity and harmfulness of waste, for example by encouraging the use of sustainable, harvested and recycled products by establishing product reuse systems and reducing food waste across the food chain. Finland’s recent programme to promote the circular economy provides a good basis for promoting the circular economy. Mr President! One of the reasons for the delay in drafting the law has been the different views on how the transport of waste in Finland would be the smartest way to organise it. In the future, the municipality will organise the transport of separately collected waste centrally. In this way, real estate will be more widely covered by separate collection and transport can be carried out in a logistically efficient way. In the case of competitions, the contracts must be split up in a regional and time-scale manner and carried out in such a way that more than one undertaking can be chosen as a service provider. This will ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are able to succeed in competitive tendering. This concern has therefore been heard in the preparation of the government. I would also like to say that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have also been very successful in competitions, there are good experiences like this, and we want to make sure that this is the case in the future. It is therefore important to pay attention to the competitive skills and procurement skills of municipal waste management companies. It should also be noted that more work will be carried out by waste transport companies as separate collection increases. As has been said here, the current dual system will remain in the transport of mixed waste as well as precipitate and sealed sludge. This means that the municipality could, subject to the conditions laid down by law in respect of these wastes, continue to transfer the transport to the holder of the property. Mr President! This reform of the Waste Act has been prepared and awaited for a long time, and it is important that we now bring it to the end without delay. It is also the will and wish of the industry at the moment. This is an important step towards a carbon-neutral circular economy and also creates new local jobs in the recycling sector and opportunities for new innovations in the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u10	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u11	Madam President! Finns are keen recyclers, as has been said here, and we are even the best in the world in promoting the circular economy. However, further efforts are needed to achieve common objectives. This waste bill speeds up access to recycling targets and, above all, facilitates the sorting of household waste in order to make recycling as easy and easy for everyone as possible. The reform lays down clearer obligations for municipalities, waste managers and packaging producers. Increasing the responsibility of municipalities from both the cost and the circular economy perspective is very effective. In addition, it is noteworthy in this reform that in the future, remote trade, i.e. e-commerce, will also be included in producer responsibility. It is an important and necessary reform. Mr President! However, at the same time as the reform is being carried out, it is important that the municipalities ensure that transport contractors are properly competitive. In addition, special attention has been paid during the process of preparing this reform to assess and, where appropriate, mitigate the impact on businesses. Overall, the impact on companies has been estimated to be limited in comparison with the market growth resulting from an increase in separate recycling. However, it is true that the impact varies from region to region, and for some transport companies the business can also be reduced. We have good experiences of regional cooperation and the system in South Karelia. Therefore, the regulation on the competitive tendering of municipal waste transport contracts will be tightened and the municipality will have to distribute the works in such a way as to allow SMEs to participate in the competitions. And, as the Minister said, the Ministry of the Environment will also launch, together with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the waste management operators, a project aimed at supporting the implementation of the law. This will guide and advise municipalities in organising competitions for waste shipments and transport entrepreneurs in participating in competitive tendering. Mr President! All in all, however, it is important to make progress on this important reform of waste legislation. The bill responds to new EU legislation and implements a Government Programme that commits to increasing recycling and strengthening Finland's role as a pioneer in the circular economy. That is why this reform is in place right now and is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u12	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u13	Madam President! This bill on waste has been prepared for a long time and a long time. Partly related to the waste package adopted by the EU in summer 2018 with a key objective of increasing waste recycling and efficient use of materials. On the other hand, the proposal is based on national needs and the Government's own policies. And it is only for this EU that this is urgent. Even if the EU becomes a whole lot of things, in this package this part of the Union is less problematic than then the national side. Finland is still class A in recycling, circular economy and environmental protection, and should be the starting point for understanding this proposal as well. The most essential changes to the proposal at national level relate to waste transport and the so-called double system in Finland. For reasons of severe criticism, the proposal was amended so that the dual system would not be completely dismantled, but that the owner of the property would, if the municipality so desired, retain the possibility of organising the transport of waste in mixed waste and in fine and sealed waste. For biowaste and packaging waste, regardless of the material, transport is presented as the only alternative to transport organised by the municipality. This will have a negative impact on the business field, healthy competition and employment, and it has not been found to be necessary even for the environment, in part even the opposite, as it is likely to reduce the development of environmentally bold recycling and transport innovations. For years private transport companies have invested in the collection of packaging waste. It is estimated that hundreds, even thousands, of waste management jobs and many companies are at risk. The situation would be terrible in any situation, but in Corona Finland it is particularly unpleasant. The market is concentrated, competition is decreasing, and the capacity of smaller companies in particular is deteriorating. What's the point of this? The abolition of the current operating, relatively functioning transport system does not even require EU regulation, so it is pointless to go behind its back. This is an isolated proposal and an attack on entrepreneurs and employers in the industry. It is no wonder that the Entrepreneurship Gallup published today is showing the government ever worse grades. The proposal claims that the change is not relevant because small and medium-sized enterprises can participate in the municipal tendering procedure and that the municipality is obliged to engage in market dialogue and to split up procurement in accordance with the procurement rules. This was also referred to in previous speeches. Does anyone really believe this? [of the Socialist Group : Yes! ] Mr President! I have already recycled waste when it was not practically possible. During my studies, I carried cartons, metals, glasses and other long distances, even though I practically lived next to the centre of Turku. Fortunately, this has been a significant step forward and almost all Finns have the opportunity to play their part in the recycling of waste and materials if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u14	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u15	Madam President! At this very beginning, I dare say that I am glad that today has finally come, that we have this waste law before Parliament. The procedure has been quite complex. It has included a wide-ranging reform of EU waste regulations for up to three years. The long-running draft of the Government's proposal resulted in some 350 opinions, which have led to a number of changes, and a wide range of background studies have also been carried out during the preparatory work, in particular with regard to steering measures to achieve the recycling targets. Today, when this motion is in the referral debate — despite Mr Heinonen's squirms — we in the Committee on the Environment have already started prior consultation on the law. We are the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but this proposal is being dealt with very extensively in this House because the opinions are issued by both the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Constitutional Affairs and the Administrative Committee, that is to say, by means of a comprehensive discussion, and many of us may or may not have to deal with this proposal. Why do I think this law is needed? For the reason that more recycling should be possible, our country's role as a pioneer in the circular economy must be strengthened and the proposal before us also implements new EU legislation. This too should be borne in mind, even if the legislation coming from the EU does not please everyone in this Chamber. Among other things, the circular economy will be promoted by imposing clearly stricter obligations on municipalities, waste managers and packaging producers for separate collection of waste. As far as the duubies of this proposal, to which today's episode also related, we have certainly all received feedback from our representatives on this shipment of waste under the Waste Act. Through the compromise, the so-called double system of collection will be abolished, but I would like to take it into account in this debate that, with exceptions, not entirely. In the future, municipalities will have to organise, as has already been said many times in this Chamber, the transport of waste which is collected centrally. Throughout the long preparatory process, my party has emphasised the need to assess and, if necessary, mitigate the impact on businesses. The overall impact on companies has been estimated to be small compared to the growth in the market resulting from the increase in separate collection. Of course, there are regional differences and therefore some transport companies may also have less business opportunities. This too should be said out loud in this referral debate. One of the good things about this proposal is that, in part, stricter provisions than the procurement law strengthen the obligation of the municipality to ensure that transport contracts are properly competitive. And I think, at least, that this will be in the interests of smaller companies. As far as this opposition is concerned, I would also like to point out that the Trade Union, among other things, supports this proposal, although trade is certainly one of the biggest contributors to the tightening demands of the proposal. In my opinion, they say in a very sympathetic and humane way in their own opinion — including this debate today or the situation in the episode — that instead of fighting, we must work towards a common goal, namely a circular economy. And that is what I personally hope from the committees in which this proposal for a waste law is being discussed, that is to say all four of us in committee and then the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will be the last to produce that report. Mr President! Nor can I fail to say to this end that the Waste Act has raised hot feelings and waste, for example, in my own hometown, is a hot feeling, but the fact that the debate here is claiming that the government is appropriately making proposals that increase unemployment is a rather bold argument.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u16	Congressman Kausto gone, Congressman Marttinen gone. — Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u17	Madam President! After all, the objective of the law is excellent, and there are, admittedly, many good things in it. This debate, too, is beginning to confuse the fact that we in the opposition are opposed to this recycling. This is by no means the case. But the problem is that the system should first be made operational before the collection system is drastically changed. First, you should put a drink in companies, such as those like Eaglemills, who make those products from something other than plastic, for example. Improving opportunities for these companies is more important than getting the material we cannot use. A good example was just in the MOT programme about the proportion of plastic. It talked about less than 40%, which can be used, the rest will be burned. In reality, the percentage of household waste containers that are exported to them is about 20 to 25. The supplier has not known about the industry as much as the industry comes to Fortum with plastic that is directly used, which is reflected in the total amount. It is quite a small amount of plastic that can actually be used there, and it does not improve its recovery by sorting it out and collecting only a larger pile, which will in any case have to be driven into combustion. However, this separate collection is not the problem in many areas, but, of course, this elimination of the dual system is. There's a lot of other things the problem is. These are good recycling methods. For example, metal is extremely good, it rotates by a very large percentage. But the ring is a good example of how the collection system works extremely well, but there is no way to find solutions to what can be used to make good use of it — or indeed, it is used, but it almost goes underground to the benches. The glass boasts that the glass circulates well, but, in reality, the glass is being rotted into the pit at the moment, very much, because there is no solution for it either, or it is being turned into soil improver in foam glass, and so on. But what is really wrong with this, for example, personally, is the solution of this very double standard or dual system, because these companies have actually been working for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u24	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u25	Madam President! The aim of this Waste Act is to improve recycling and it is indeed necessary, as Mr Laakso, an entrepreneur and expert in the field, described above. In order to get rid of the disposable culture that has prevailed in recent decades, we must promote the reuse of waste and improve recycling. There are major regional differences in the recovery of waste. We can therefore take this regional aspect seriously into account in the forthcoming committee reading. There are a lot of responsible waste entrepreneurs in Finland. One entrepreneur recently told me that much of the plastic waste sorted in Finland still ends up incinerating and people just as if they were sorting plastic in vain. At the same time, the MOT programme ended up in its own report recently. This revision of the Waste Act aims to improve the efficiency of plastic recycling by means of a separate collection obligation for plastics. The obligation has been imposed on the municipality and the supervisory authority is also responsible for the municipality. Municipalities also often own local heating plants, so there is a risk that waste will be used as fuel. I would like to ask Mr Mikko: how can we ensure that the plastic waste that is sorted according to the obligation of separate collection actually ends up in reuse and makes this reform useful in this regard? The same waste operator also explained that good solutions exist in the province for the monitoring and control of waste shipments identified as a key problem in the transport of waste by the property manager. In their territory, there is a database of waste trucks to which waste companies provide accurate information on each waste bin that has been emptied. The database also provides the municipal authorities with information on the properties where waste is not collected in accordance with the waste management regulations. An effective exchange of information of this kind could also be used in the performance of the separate collection obligation. Hopefully, the various collection responsibilities for mixed and separate waste will not undermine the systems that have already been developed in different regions; instead, the reform will actually lead to increased recycling and reuse of waste in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u26	I'll give Mr. Satose one more time, and then the Minister. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u27	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it must be said that promoting the circular economy in every way as an export product in Finland is extremely important and I warmly support it. I would like to speak mainly about the abolition of this contractual system, which I cannot understand, not even with good will. This isn't a small thing, is it? According to the government proposal, this applies to 1.7 million households, 31 per cent of residents and 47 per cent of municipalities. I myself come from a kingdom such as Sastamala, which is a union. The majority of municipalities have this contractual system and the smaller part of municipalities have a municipal-run system. And yes, in the feedback that people will receive, municipal-led organisations would be sought for a contractual system and not the other way round. This is at least a clear message that has come to me. It has already been said here, but let me make it clear once again that the European Union does not require this system change. This can also be found directly in the explanatory memorandum in the Government’s proposal: ‘In the Waste Directive or other EU legislation, there is no provision for the organisation of the transport So this is just a domestic invention. This will significantly change the position of waste entrepreneurs. I am speaking in a language that I believe the brothers and sisters in the center will understand: In the future, entrepreneurs will become like managers, i.e. once they have developed their own business, developed these waste systems, as Mr Laakso well told us here, so they have acquired customers, served customers, been independent entrepreneurs. In the future, they will compete as to who is the cheapest supplier of the transport services that the municipality is bidding for. The nature of its work and its entrepreneurship changes completely. I do not know whether it will be as Mr Purra said that at some point this will be run by an Espoan company using Latvian labour. This may happen, but even if it does not happen — if this tendering is kept small enough — the position of these entrepreneurs will still change completely. It also means that the most skilled, innovative and environmentally-friendly entrepreneurs in the sector, who have developed the most, are likely to leave this sector and move away and this will remain a simpler activity. Unfortunately, I doubt that this will happen, and I have to say, finally, to the people in the centre and to the representatives of the RKP, that I wonder where you were when you should have been at the wheel of socialism.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u28	Minister Mikkonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u29	Thank you! Thank you for a good debate and for the good points of view that have been raised here. Indeed, the common goal is to increase the recycling rate. In many speeches, it has been pointed out that Finland is a model country for a circular economy. Well, I have to say that we still have a lot to do, but fortunately we have a desire to do more and, for example, a new strategic programme for the circular economy has just been adopted. Indeed, in terms of municipal waste, Finland is now at the EU average, and the circular economy rate in Finland is only 7.4%, compared with the EU average of 12%. [Base Finns Group : Different instruments! ] The challenge is, as has been the case here in many speeches, with wood packaging and plastic, but there too, for example, plastic collection has increased enormously and its willingness to do so has increased, but many have also pointed out that one problem is what to do with the recycled material. There is also an urgent need for more means to do this. As regards the SUP directive, there is already an obligation to mix plastic beverage packaging, and I believe that the packaging waste directive will also introduce these blending obligations for other packaging. These issues have been strongly raised in both the EU and Finland's own circular economy programme, and when Finland was the EU presidency, these circular economy obligations were accepted and we kept this strongly on the agenda, because it is quite clear that the material that is sorted must also end up being reused, and that is why, of course, we can also reduce the use of virgin resources. Well, many of the speeches raised concerns about how small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, the waste transport companies, will fare in the future with regard to these packaging waste, whereas this double system will only remain in mixed waste and then in this case with regard to slurry. Well, this challenge was recognised in the preparation process, and that is why we have put these conditions in place until the very beginning of the law, so that, on the one hand, the regions are small enough and the times are short enough, so that small companies also have a genuine chance of competing, and, indeed, this guidance and advice is now being strengthened together with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment and the waste industry. Our common will is that smaller companies will also be able to cope with competition. But, as has also been pointed out here, all in all, jobs in the waste sector will of course increase as a result of this legislative change. As these separate collection obligations become stricter, more real estate will be included in the separate collection and it is estimated that around 500 person-years will increase. Well, for companies, these effects on different companies may be different. So, on the one hand, other companies win, and it is these waste companies that are the winners of this reform, because there is an increase in the business involved in waste management, but then, on the other hand, in waste-producing companies, the reform is reflected in increased costs. Of course, this is the same idea as everything else, the polluter-pays principle and what is already a strong starting point in the Waste Act for the producer of waste to bear its costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u30	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u31	Mr President! To begin with, a few figures on the amount of waste, so that we can see this whole and also the potential: nearly 130 million tonnes of waste are generated in Finland, most of which comes from extractive activities, construction and industry. In fact, municipal waste accounts for about 3% of this total waste, but unfortunately the amount of municipal waste has been increasing in recent years, and about 550 kg of waste is spoken per capita. Better recycling and recovery of municipal waste is therefore a very important issue, and this bill is of great importance. Finland likes to think that we are model countries for a circular economy and that we are good recyclers, but unfortunately this is not the case, and it is quite clear that action is needed to improve our recycling rate. We are still very proud of old innovations, such as the bottle-pan system, but since then we have not seen much progress in recycling. As the Minister said, according to EU statistics on packaging waste, Finland is such an average rather than at the top in the recycling of packaging waste. Therefore, the common objective is certainly to increase the recycling rate, and it is very easy to agree on this. There's potential. However, one good development has taken place in recent years, and that is that the landfill treatment of municipal waste in Finland has decreased very significantly in the last ten years. In 2006, about 60 per cent of municipal waste was landfilled and in recent years it has only been around one per cent. The ban on placing organic waste in landfills, which entered into force in 2016, is of major importance. There are good things in the law. It has excellent objectives and good things to promote the circular economy and recycling, but even after a very critical round of consultations, there are still some shortcomings that need to be addressed. The two perspectives have been most prominent at this stage in the preparation process and now in the parliamentary process: The second is a whole of producer responsibility, for which in fact the deadline for implementing the directive is longer, and for this producer responsibility, implementation could continue for a few years from now, until the summer of 2023. In other words, with regard to this controversial whole, it would be possible to divide this proposal into two parts so that this proposal on producer responsibility for packaging waste would be recast and then brought to Parliament closer to that date. In other respects, this proposal is already very much overdue, as we know. Well, the second concern relates in particular now to these transports and concerns, above all, on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises. The reasons for maintaining this dual system are very clear from the point of view of these entrepreneurs and clearly also sent to the preparation. Here too, it is worth noting that this draft law is based on the implementation of the EU directive, as we know, but, as Mr Satonen also pointed out, this EU regulation does not require changes to this transport system, but is a government's own political preparation. This change in government reduces competition and customer flexibility in these services and also reduces citizens' freedom of choice, and I think that as a representative of the market economy, this should be taken into account, because free competition is also the best solution for the customer, and it would be justified for decisions to be made in such a way that the needs of people and regions can be taken into account. In other words, this point of view for entrepreneurs should be better reflected in the discussion of this law. The Minister said here that there is a common will for small businesses to succeed too, but this proposal does not take account of this will. In fact, I wonder whether the Government in the preparation has taken into account the objectives of its own entrepreneurship strategy outlined in the Government Programme and in the autumn of 2019 in the Budget Committee, because this proposal contradicts their objectives. As has been said, many entrepreneurs, especially entrepreneurs, have been pioneers in promoting recycling, and now there is a risk that years of development and investment will be left untapped by them. I also think it is important to assess the proposal in relation to the autonomy of municipalities. Here again is an example of a policy that seems to think that the best know-how would not be there on the ground, close to that decision-making process. Finally, Mr President, I should also like to mention these transitional periods: in other words, this transitional period seems very short, two years for entrepreneurs, given that, for example, in connection with the procurement law, municipal waste companies were given a transitional period of more than ten years for that change.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u32	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u33	Mr President! Of course, this proposal has a good effect on the promotion of the circular economy and, for example, on the various electronic monitoring systems and the like, which have been mentioned here, but I myself have a deep concern about this very significant weakening of the dual system and the partial abolition, which is a purely national matter. What still bothers me is that, in today's parliamentary debate, this proposal was put forward as a matter of urgency, even though it is precisely about the EU element, but the essence of this proposal is also about this national system, which is not urgent and which is a political decision. At the 2019 Parliament, I asked a written question with several representatives of the Finnish People's Republic about this very matter. We asked about the need to preserve the fairness of the transport of waste agreed between the municipal and property owners. We also raised the issue of maintaining both transport systems with different waste distributions and the need for both transport systems to meet the same quality standards. I also believe that these are important points of departure. Investments made by entrepreneurs and the protection of practical assets have also emerged when such changes are made. I do have doubts about this financial assessment here. You said, Minister, that turnover in the sector will probably increase by increasing this special collection obligation, and this is probably the way it can be done, given the growing demands, but the importance of this for SMEs, employment, competition, the market and consumers is of great concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u34	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u35	Mr President! In due course, the waste law rose to a cult, rather than a very good one. It was a reform with a bad hangover, in which the savings of many elderly people in rural areas were more and less effective. This quite fittingly nicknamed legal reform was an example of how things are carried forward without thinking to the end of how they are reflected in the everyday lives of ordinary people and, above all, the fairness of their effects. It would be good if we had learned something from this. It is, of course, a good thing that the Waste Act guides action in a more environmentally sustainable direction, but these reforms must focus particularly closely on the impact at grass-roots level. The Marin government seems to be full of enthusiasm when it comes to making presentations on environmental issues. Too much haste can lead to the fact that things do not work on a practical level, in line with the script. In this proposal, one such place of risk relates to the transport of waste. Changing practices threaten the activities of a large number of companies and hence jobs. Our interest-stricken economy could not afford any additional setbacks now. The bumpers have been used so to speak a long time ago. The Government wants to strengthen Finland's role as a pioneer in the circular economy as part of its plan for carbon neutrality. In practice, the proposal increases the recycling targets for packaging waste and introduces new strict recycling obligations for municipalities, waste managers and packaging producers. It is an ambitious objective to prepare municipal waste for reuse or recycle 55 % by weight in 2025, 60 % by weight in 2030 and 65 % by weight in 2035. Of course, such goals do not come true for free. Mr President! Generally speaking, the basic logic is that when the costs of companies and other operators increase, it is immediately reflected in consumer prices. Negotiations on cooperation and compensation with producers and municipalities are also not a big deal. I feel like the government hasn't thought things through. I am also concerned about the practical implications of increasing packaging waste management obligations for packaging producers. Will consumer prices for certain commodities rise disproportionately? There are also challenges with regard to competition, and the dismantling of the so-called double model has also been criticised by representatives of the population. The competition challenges were also highlighted by Mr Purra. What if there's some big international company and they take over the market? In the context of both the Waste Act and other decision-making on climate and environmental issues, the Government should put ice in the hat and ensure that its presentations do not unduly undermine domestic work and entrepreneurship or cause significant cost increases for ordinary Finns. Representative Sheik Laakso raised the concerns of entrepreneurs, and he is also an expert in this field. The representative of the park also raised the potential plight of entrepreneurs in this situation, particularly in relation to this competitive bidding. At the end of the day, I could generally say that, of course, at individual level, personally, each of us can do more when it comes to sorting, treating. I also say for myself that there is room for hope and that it will be for the future that attention will be paid to it. The public opinion is that nature and the environment must be managed, but it must be done in moderation so that it does not become too big a challenge for companies either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u36	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u37	Mr President! Soon there will be more plastic in the world’s seas than fish. People and other species around the world are suffering from environmental pollution and health risks caused by waste. One aspect of the global environmental crisis is the waste crisis. At the same time, however, waste is mostly reusable raw material. Other aspects of the environmental crisis, such as increased emissions, land-use change and over-consumption of natural resources, are partly due to the fact that our global economic system is based on the conquest of a new one, the grubbing-up of nature and the raw materials of nature for the processing of products. In order to solve the environmental crisis in a genuinely sustainable way, we need to move from a flow-through economy to a carbon-neutral circular economy, and that is also what this reform of the Waste Act is all about. The reform will increase the recycling rate of municipal waste by at least 5-10%, reduce the consumption of natural resources and, at the same time, create new jobs in the waste sector in line with the principles of the circular economy. It is great that waste is becoming understood as a necessary and valuable part of the circular economy. Of course, much remains to be done in the construction of the circular economy, but this is clearly in the right direction and in the right direction. Mr President! Indeed, there is still work to be done in re-use of collected plastic. I myself would like to emphasise, as has already been well emphasised here, that we will need more political guidance in the future, so that Finland can become a real pioneer country in the circular economy, including in plastic. I also think that this obligation to mix is a key means of increasing the use of plastics. Well, the Government Programme has indeed stated that the objective is to raise the recycling rate to at least the level of the EU recycling targets and also to start collecting textile waste by 2025 at the latest. Today, the government has indeed decided to oblige the regional collection of textile waste from 2023 onwards, and this is a good thing and helps ordinary citizens. We also already have good experience of recycling more than the current waste requirements. I will take, for example, my own municipality, Helsinki. The environmental services of the Helsinki region, HSY, already collects textile waste at its Sorti stations and cooperates with the Southwest Finnish Institute in order to recycle it. Separate collection obligations now become mandatory in Helsinki, i.e. biowaste and packaging waste materials, i.e. plastic, cardboard, glass and metals in the property of at least five apartments, have already been used since the beginning of this year. HSY already has this local competition in the transport of waste, and experience shows that it has been an effective model. In other words, local tendering can and of course must also be carried out in such a way as to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to be involved, and I think that this was also well opened up by the Minister in his recent speech. Furthermore, as an example, HSY has also decided that waste vehicles should not be allowed to run on fossil fuels but that other alternative fuels should be used. This will then be a condition of competitive tendering, and this will also help to reduce emissions during transport. This means that separate collection is efficient through the municipality, that waste charges can be channelled, and that it is therefore easier to carry out the recycling rate. The law reform also implements the co-operation model between the municipality and the packaging waste producer community, and this model also works exclusively for the benefit of residents when producer communities start to replace the transport of waste to the municipality. The municipality is then obliged to transfer this compensation to the benefit of the residents, and this is reflected in a reduction in waste charges. Mr President! It is, of course, essential to respect the waste hierarchy as a whole, which has also been well mentioned here. So the top priority is to reduce the amount of waste. It is the most efficient use of resources and is also an integral part of the circular economy. At the same time, it is important that virgin raw materials should not be cheaper than used recycled raw material. I think we have a lot to do here, but this reform is an important step in the right direction, and I think that as a pioneer we will be rewarded not only in terms of benefits and savings for the inhabitants, as a positive impact on the environment and the climate, but also as new business opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u38	Congressman Östman is gone. — Mr Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u39	Thank you, Madam President. We are now dealing with the amendment of the Waste Act. In my opinion, there is much to correct in the draft law, in fact so much that it can be thrown directly into the waste bin. Among other things, the proposal states: ‘In the transport of separately collected waste under responsibility,it is proposed that a transfer be made according to Article36 to a centralised The current system in which a municipality may decide, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 37 of the Act, that each holder of a property organises the transport of waste itself has proved ineffective and unclear in terms of the division of responsibility.’ I would like to add a few more facts to these sentences, Minister. What on earth is the basis of these statements that are unclear in terms of inefficiency and burden-sharing? It must be mentioned here that, for example, in Salo, my municipality of residence, there is a contractual shipment of waste. The local waste management company, their responsible and competent activities, is more than satisfied. According to a customer satisfaction survey carried out twice every four years, their operations are almost 100% satisfied. In other words, the entrepreneur takes care of his work according to existing legal regulations, and the residents are satisfied. Madam President! Mixed waste and fractions for the recovery of municipal housing have now mainly been managed by transport and handling methods organised by the property holder. The above activities have traditionally worked excellently since 1979, when the first comprehensive waste law came to Finland. The majority of municipalities have chosen a contractual approach to waste management and I do not think that this decision-making power should be reduced under any circumstances. The Government's proposal will break up the current contractual systems. Any part of waste management will result in increased monopoly as the power of municipal companies increases. As a result, a monopolistic municipal company determines the service provision and pricing in its territory without any competition. The residents have no influence and no choice but to pay increasing waste taxes. Since the municipal company does not acquire equipment for operational activities, it is tendering companies in the sector on its territory. Each of us knows that the main price will determine the competitive profit. In Finland, a number of good companies in the sector that have been operating for up to 40 to 50 years have been destroyed by a price difference of only a few cents. Madam President! We have many sad examples in Finland that one or a few larger companies have won the waste competitions. It should also be noted that after tendering, the market will be closed down to other companies for years. In addition, competition is often carried out by municipal-owned companies which compete with private companies in another market. I would also like to mention, like many others here, that the obligation to change the transport model is not based on EU regulation. The government should increasingly commit itself to strengthening the shipment of waste by the property manager. These companies are important employers in their own regions and affect the diversity of waste management services. In this area too, Mr President-in-Office, do you want more entrepreneurs to go bankrupt and more unemployed? I understand this cannot be the case, can it? However, this bill affects hundreds of companies and their employees. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u40	Congressman Kauma is gone. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u41	Madam President! This government proposal to reform the Waste Act has been a long time. For about a year it has been twisted, and now it has a form to be decided by Parliament as a government proposal. This waste law also includes a huge number of changes in regulations, because this package is enormously large. It is quite right that we should update the waste legislation. It should be borne in mind, however, that in this present time we have had an easy way of claiming that the directive requires it or the directive requires it, but in this case only part of the implementation of the directive is part of the implementation, the rest has been political considerations. This is something to remember. I also admit that there are a lot of things in this package that, if I had written this law alone, it would certainly be a little different, but when this political force is not enough, then the compromise is always a matter of contentment, which I think is more everyday work for the Members of Parliament than anything else. Of course, achieving the recycling targets is the goal to be pursued. It is clear that more and more different types of waste are produced in the world, and the same applies to Finns. As a standard of living, we ourselves are responsible for the high level of waste each year. The fact that mining, for example, generates huge tonnages and is treated as waste, even though it is a side stone and so forth, is a little distracting these tonnages. Even now, when mining ore in a gold mine, you are producing a lot of mining that is side stone. It is easy to count as waste, and these amounts are huge, but those stones always have their use there in the mining area, so it is worth remembering too. There will be more separate collections, that is clear. One of the most important points of this law is precisely the fact that these various waste streams are being made more and more useable and, consequently, this percentage has been raised. Finland is one of the world's leading recycling countries, so that even in this respect, we should not reproach ourselves any further. Of course we can do better and we will try, but there is no reason to panic or with such fear of control that we are suspected of being unfit. No, we're not. On the basis of the European Union's standards on almost any issue, we are Europe's top. That should be borne in mind. Separate collection of real estate takes over the responsibility of municipalities, it is true, but the transport of mixed waste remains in the dual system. There was such a huge twist. I understand that it has been a painful place for many people, but, unfortunately, in politics, in everyday life, compromises have to be made. It is worth recalling, too, that this new waste law also has an objective and an article on which to compete and distribute these works into smaller parts, which means that smaller companies are able to bid. I, too, am very heartburned when you look at a multinational company that drives garbage in my municipality, and its symbols appear on the side of the garbage truck. I don't like it. I think that is very wrong, because many times it hides behind these companies the fact that its employee's rights in matters of remuneration have also been, let us say nicely, a bit of difficulty. I hope that when this new law is passed, then this division of works will be done fairly and so that even a small entrepreneur, the local one, will be able to make offers. It is clear that if a region of one province is to be put out for competition, there are very few in the region who are able to make a comprehensive offer to that region. I don't think that's really the case. Madam President! In fact, this is a circular economy, and it is a question of recycling as much goods as possible. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection held a debate on this at the end of last year, an open hearing. Reijo Karhinen's working group has adopted such a circular economy strategy, and this circular economy programme will be decided by the Government tomorrow on 8 April. So this issue is also on that side of the road. This strategy specifically underlines the fact that all waste and goods of this nature can be recycled as efficiently as possible. Just a few days ago, the example of plastic recycling in the MOT programme, which was published a few days ago, is a little puzzled. If you've got those plastic things all piled up, why do you have to burn them? But if no other use was found for them, then this processing of recycled goods must be further developed in order to make use of them. The Committee on the Environment has discussed this on many occasions. This is also an area that will certainly develop in our industry. Finally, Madam President, one thing. Entrepreneurs in the circular economy have contacted me several times. I would like to take, for example, ash dung or after-shave products in general. We have a huge problem when there are no warrants. One entrepreneur has applied for and applied for, and always there the official just states that there needs to be one more explanation. These permits have to start coming in this country. So there is the birth of manure that can and will already be used to fertilize the forest. The distribution of these fertilizers is particularly useful for Finland, because it increases forest growth enormously, binds carbon, improves water balance and reduces run-off into water bodies, because the growing growth of wood absorbs water from the swamps a lot, so that they do not enter ditches, but the swamps grow more valuable wood. I hope, Minister, that you will address this firmly, that these permits will begin to come. For example, when bandages are produced, ash provides a brilliant binder with excellent strength qualities. And when you count the carbon balance — which I think is one of the most used phrases in that coffee table conversation today — when you make a cement substitute, for example, from the ashes, which can then be built and cast almost anything, then its carbon dioxide emissions are only 20% of what it is when you make cement that you drive us on ships. I think it's near Klaipėda that port and that factory where we're getting our stuff. I hope, Minister, that this will be addressed because this is the Achilles heel. If we want to promote the circular economy, then permits must come.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u42	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u43	Mr President! Increasing separate collection obligations is definitely a good thing because it promotes recycling. In Varsinais-Suomi, for example, packaging and biowaste have been collected for years according to proposed obligations. However, transports may have been competitive on a real estate basis. With regard to the transport of bio- and packaging waste, this proposal now proposes the abolition of the current double system and the transfer to municipal waste transport. However, in the case of mixed municipal waste and solid and solid sludge, the municipality could decide, subject to the conditions laid down by law, that the holder of the property may arrange the transport. The preservation of the dual system of mixed waste and sludge guarantees freedom of choice. It contributes to supporting small businesses and jobs, including in sparsely populated areas. Freedom of choice ensures responsible services for residents. At the same time, genuine competition will also benefit. This may not be the case in the municipal competition, but it can also, if it has been done, be done in such a way that it leads to effective action. Waste management is, in principle, a normal business and in no way in itself a municipal activity. After all, in principle, the municipality should be able to organise this waste collection as the most efficient monopoly, but we know that public operators tend to develop a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy and a private operator is able to operate with a very thin organisation and low costs. But it is important to ensure that local action is effective, and that is, of course, the task of democratic decision-making, at least in principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u44	Congressman Honkonen gone, Congressman Kettunen gone. — Representative Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u45	Mr President! The revision of the Waste Act is an important step towards more and more recycling in Finland and that we will also be pioneers in the circular economy in the future. In order to achieve these objectives, some aspects of the legislation must be tightened up and some obligations must also be tightened. All sustainable waste reduction measures are important to increase recycling. The role of municipalities will be emphasised after this reform, although the consumer will continue to have the opportunity to choose service providers in some respects. It is extremely important that the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to manage waste management in the tendering process is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u46	Madam President! My own history of waste legislation does not go beyond this parliamentary term, but this debate has also shown that it is high time that the reform was brought to an end. I would like to raise a few points of view here. I personally understand this reform as one of the key objectives of managing the overall waste sector: an infrastructure that is efficiently organised in order to increase the recycling rate in a cost-effective way. Municipal waste management is always ultimately responsible for the management of final waste. I think it is justified to build a whole in which the management of waste streams is efficient, but I also understand the concerns of transport companies, and there has been an important debate here. If viewed from the perspective of the organiser of the transport, then the interests of the municipality or local waste management company are that local, well-managed and innovative hauliers are successful in competitive tendering. This is also the aim of the legislator, as the Minister has said very well here. Instead of painting threats, I think it is important to look for solutions and a common will. The question was whether we believe in market dialogue and, yes, at least that is what I believe. I see that success is in the interests of everyone, and that is something that needs to be worked on in the municipalities now that this reform is progressing. At the same time, transport organised by the municipality provides services to residents on a one-stop shop basis and in the case of waste transport, and logistics is enhanced. The important thing is that, now that this line is drawn up, the situation becomes clearer. This lavish uncertainty is a bad situation for everyone and also delays investment in the circular economy. President! I'm going back to plastic recycling and recovery. It is important that there is also an open public debate on this issue. As was very clear in the MOT programme referred to here, the current challenge of plastic recycling is to change the market and, through recycling obligations, to increase the amount of raw material on the market. What is essential is that we now have a stronger obligation to use recycled plastic. We therefore need regulation not only in the market but also in the right direction. As far as the recycling of textile waste is concerned, Finland has done groundbreaking research and development work on this, and we also have great export potential. We are now in favour of continuing to support and speed up this kind of development in the waste sector as a whole. As has been said, it is a good thing that the proposal is now in Parliament and that it will receive an in-depth discussion here, in which all aspects and risks will be carefully assessed once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u47	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u48	Mr President! I would have asked the Minister about these transitional periods. In time, the Constitutional Committee — if I do not misremember — has required a transitional period of three to four years when the transport contracts expire when the municipality decides to move from the transport provided by the property holder to the transport provided by the municipality. On what grounds has the government ended up with significantly shorter transitional periods that pose major challenges for entrepreneurs? But, Mr President, as has been said, the government's proposal has good objectives, which are easy to agree on, but at the same time there are flaws which reduce the operating conditions of entrepreneurs and also the autonomy of municipalities, and we are concerned about these. This direction is difficult to understand, because it has not been possible to demonstrate in the preparation that the centralised system is more efficient from the point of view of recycling. Mr President! The fineness of the circular economy is that solutions can be created that benefit everyone, including the environment, climate and also entrepreneurs and employment. And this reform of the Waste Act would be an excellent place for the government to promote circular economy solutions precisely so that all parties benefit. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is now starting to discuss and consult widely on this bill. This is a very good and important matter, and a little unusual — that is to say, this waste law has now been brought to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the middle of the corona closure process, given that this government has brought very little, exceptionally little, environmental legislation into the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in this period, which is almost half behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u49	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u50	Madam President! Sometimes I feel like my own record is stuck when I stress the anti-entrepreneurship of the government. Unfortunately, the government, by its own actions, is making it compulsory to dribble this album. That is why I am continuing, and I sincerely hope that the government will turn around and believe in entrepreneurship, work and hard work, will rise to the level in which they should be in a prosperous society. The first thing would certainly be to involve the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the preparation of the Finnish Corona-Exit Plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u53	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u54	Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister why the dual system needs to be abolished. And another wonder is that many of the representatives of the government parties have suggested in their speeches that we would not be very good recyclers. Is it now certain that there are quite a few different statistics in these figures compared to Europe and that they are not comparable? However, I also know from my own experience how well we actually recycle in Finland, and in the end game here the market and other things like this work extremely well — if there is a market. It is absolutely not up to us here to find innovative people and even to invest in these jobs if we find a market for these products. This is the only problem with increasing recycling as a whole, which is why it has stalled in its place: that there is no such market. I still do not understand how, for example, the abolition of the dual system, in a certain way, will add to this. Personally, there is a single container in the yard, but there are eight different cups and dishes inside, where I put all the different products. There has been no difficulty, and the rush is at every benefit collection point in the yard of every single market every time I visit it. Those Ecosir boxes haven't been so much of an empty deposit. So the situation is that, while we increase sorting, this dual system is being changed to municipal care, it simply means that we are collecting products, most of which are still being burned. I do not know which trick number two is going to do it, and in what way they will actually be reported or recorded in municipal waste management, or whether they will be used on neighboring land and then brought back in some other way, because unfortunately I have to say that this sort of back and forth with these particular recycling materials has been hard enough to date, let alone now that some sort of results should be shown below the line as to how much we have been recycled — yes, supposedly recycled — that matter. We need to be able to create a market. That's how we get recycling up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u55	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u56	Madam President! The long-standing revision of the Waste Act will now finally be completed and will accelerate the separate collection and circular economy in line with the objectives of the Government Programme. The bill also implements EU law. The aim is to gradually increase the recycling of municipal waste from the current 43% to 63 % by weight by 2035. And as has been said here today, with regard to the recycling targets for packaging waste, the objective is quite easily achievable but challenging, of course, for plastic waste. In order to achieve these objectives, the law contains a number of guidance tools for separate collection. I am rather surprised, and at least slightly exaggerated, by the arguments that have been made in this Chamber about the impact on employment. When recycling is increased and waste sorting is increased, it cannot be seen in employment as well. In addition, I think that the law has given a good deal of attention to breaking up the competition in the transport of waste so that local SMEs can offer. That is extremely important. In addition, for mixed and fine waste, the double system will remain. The reform will increase the responsibility of municipalities to collect waste. It is important that municipalities work well with residents and businesses in the reform process. The provisions laid down in the Act, even more stringent than those laid down in the Act on Procurement, strengthen the obligation of municipalities to take care of appropriate competitions. It is important that competition and its conditions take into account the factors affecting the regional economy and the possibility for local companies to participate in genuine transport contracts. The law has therefore clarified the current regulation on competition in waste transport contracts. In future, the municipality will have to distribute the transport contracts regionally and over time so that SMEs can truly take part in the competitions. Of course, the reform is big also for residents, from the point of view of the residents of both detached houses and housing companies, and property owners, housing companies, will then have to organise their own waste management and waste containers in some ways, and waste management companies in many municipalities have also provided services for them. It is also important that different collection methods are considered with regard to housing companies in connection with municipalities, as has been the case today with the collection of blocks and multi-boxes. In implementing the reform, it is important that there are two- and three-year transitional periods for the organisation of biowaste and packaging waste from the adoption of the law. The length of the transition period in general, whether or not it is sufficient now, is a bit of a matter of concern to itself, but it is quite a big reform. In particular, guidance and clear communication are important for the implementation of the reform, particularly in the case of transition periods and the implementation of the separate collection targets. In view of the growing role and responsibilities of municipalities, it is important that the models supporting the entire waste management chain are taken into account in the decisions taken by municipalities, and in this respect it is good that this dual system is maintained for mixed and fine waste. It is also important that the responsibility of producers and producer communities for packaging materials increases and that producer responsibility also extends to growing international online trade. Let us hope that the law will provide a good opportunity for further development of our waste management, waste treatment and recycling. Municipalities now have an even bigger role to play in the implementation of the law and the provision of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u57	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u58	Madam President! There is indeed a waste law in the process, and the good thing about this bill is that mixed waste and waste from wells in housing would remain in the current model, i.e. in the area of free transport. Madam President! As far as separate sections are concerned, this law would be left to the municipality to organise transport, and what I have spoken to an entrepreneur would be a very difficult thing to do. Consider the matter in terms of the environment or logistics, and this problem is particularly highlighted in sparsely populated areas. It would be a rather challenging situation if more entrepreneurs were to go to the property after the competitive bidding to collect the verses they received. At least this entrepreneur doesn't think the whole thing is under anyone's control. Collecting a single verse would be expensive and unecological. Take an example from Kainuu, from the municipality of Risjärvi, where a verse is picked up, even plastic. For environmental reasons, I wonder which is the eco-act, drive eight hours on that garbage truck, the truck, collect one verse, even plastic, and the total weight of plastic at the end of the day of collection would be 400 kilos. This is also worth taking into account in committee when the referral debate is being held. After all, when the chairman of the committee and the minister are here, this should be taken into account. And then again, would there be genuine competition if mixed waste can be competitive, but the municipality manages biowaste and others? This is likely to become a confusing system and perhaps also expensive. Madam President! At the moment, we have a good system in Kainuu where the municipality performs its official duties and controls and the transport is carried out by entrepreneurs. Waste management regulations Kainuu is much stricter at the moment than what is proposed in this bill, and it does work well in Kainuu. In the alternative, the municipality manages the waste collection, i.e. each property can choose between the municipality and the entrepreneur, and thus it will remain a genuine competition in the region, even if there are no entrepreneurs in the area but one entrepreneur. However, according to the forthcoming proposal, the municipality would have a monopoly on waste management as a whole and, in competitions, transport will then be transferred to large listed companies, and I personally do not support this. Mr President! While there's still a minister here, I'd like to ask you a question. There has been a debate here about this dual system. Could it be now?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u59	And at the end of this debate, Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u60	Mr President! First of all, when it has been said here that everything in this proposal itself does not come from that directive and that this could also have been broken up. I would like to say that I think it is important that this package is now being imported as a whole. These solutions have been awaited by waste operators and it is important that we get this whole package moving forward. We know that it may have affected the willingness to invest, for example, or we have had to wait when we do not know what model Finland chooses for packaging waste, for example. That is why it is important that this whole package should now move forward. Well, then there may have been such an idea in this debate that in the future the municipalities would handle the transport. That is not the case. In other words, the municipality is bidding, the companies are handling the transport. And here is the concern that has already been expressed in the previous reply, and which many speakers have pointed out, that tendering must of course be carried out in such a way that small companies are also well placed to participate in it and those contracts will be won. We know that there have been challenges in history, but on the other hand we have many areas where they have been extremely successful. That is why it has been sought to record this in the law that this should be taken into account, and advice and training will also be done. There has been a lot of talk about transition periods here. There is indeed a situation here that, for example, producer responsibility requirements for packaging waste will come into force in 23 years, but the implementation has been given time. We have identified this challenge that the transition period is short, but, on the other hand, it is important that they be mobilised quickly in order to launch a separate collection. But, on the other hand, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must certainly assess whether this transitional period, in the form proposed, is sufficient. Well, then I would like to point out that there are allegations here that this proposal would lead to an increase in unemployment. On the contrary, it is quite clear that employment will increase, because, for example, separate collection obligations will increase so much that new jobs will also be created on the transport side. It has been estimated here that an increase of around 500 person-years is the employment effect of this. Well, then we've been asked why the double system is being abandoned. Of course, we cannot just mirror what has been achieved today with contract-based transport, but we need to think about the need for a higher and rather high recycling rate. That is why it is important that we also have new opportunities, such as block-gathering and carpooling. When the whole area can be designed in a uniform way, these different operating models can also be created there, and it is easy for the resident when it comes to a one-stop shop service in a way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u61	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u62	Madam President! I wanted to take the floor and thank Minister Mikko for his good answers and to remind him that, when we want to increase recycling activities, the easiest way to do that is to sort the property in question, which has also been mentioned in previous speeches — and rightly, representatives also recycle waste on a property-by- property basis — and which is also the subject of this bill. The second is that if the collected waste is sorted out of recyclable fractions, this is how it works. However, the municipalities have not implemented this, they have fed their own combustion plants with waste. After all, it is not the interest of the municipality to sort out, because then they will weaken their own fuel, and this problem should also be dealt with in a legal way and thus promote sorting. After all, the sorting of residential waste is legally prohibited for entrepreneurs, but it is possible to sort like business waste — but you would think that entrepreneurs would then have the skills and will also be willing to sort the fractions of housing if the legislation allowed. President! Let me remind you once again, when we have a referral debate, of this transport system, that this dual system would be maintained in small municipalities, preferably municipalities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants. This will give freedom to the dual system, enable small businesses to continue their activities in these areas and win all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u63	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u64	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Minister for giving time to this referral debate and for taking part in the whole long debate. It's very valuable, and we appreciate it. Two further comments on this last speech by the Minister: However, if I have understood correctly, the promotion of these block and other such block-size solutions, for example, would not require these government proposals in relation to this dual system. In just the same way, all such solutions would be possible in the transport provided by the property owner, although the municipality is also organising, but this change proposed by the government is not a prerequisite for promoting these recycling solutions. I would still have asked when the Minister raised these employment effects, what is the overall picture they have now been assessed. Perhaps these business impact assessments and the relationship with this government's own entrepreneurial strategy are also of interest, but also these employment effects. As I have heard from experts on the basis of this draft law, the estimates of increased employment are, however, considerably more modest than what the Minister has just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u65	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u66	Madam President! In short, I would like to thank the Minister for his presence and, above all, for his contribution to the debate on the referral of this law. It is valuable that the Minister himself is present and that this means that we can give good ideas in the form of a referral debate on this matter of dealing with the Waste Act. We will probably come to the Minister on several occasions in this connection to hear it again. But, as I said earlier in my speech on the issue of the circular economy, I very much hope that we will be able to make a genuine contribution to the circular economy on the part of this licensing business, that is to say to those who are being recycled, for example the ash issue you mentioned, to get the permit matters in order as quickly as possible. On the side of its end of waste label, its authorisation, its authorisation, and the granting of an end of waste permit, it is of the utmost importance because it genuinely achieves the great idea of the circular economy that these waste will actually be recovered. The most important thing is that when you stare at how many tonnes of carbon dioxide are generated during that process on these issues, it should not be so. When we have that waste at hand and it is handled and end of waste achieved, then virgin resources will be saved. I hope that the Minister will take this seriously, because this is the one that has really caused great confusion — I am not saying anger — among entrepreneurs in the circular economy on the ground. This is a serious matter, and when the Constitution also says that the matter must be dealt with by the authorities within a reasonable period of time, it is not possible to ask indefinitely for further clarifications of further explanations, because all the best-informed studies are already in place, but there are no permits, and entrepreneurs are running away from here. I know one company that already left this country when he doesn't want to get permission. These good raw materials are wasted and a huge amount of research is wasted and, above all, all jobs are draining out of Finland. I hope that this will be improved quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u67	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u68	Madam President! The evening is well along and there has been a long debate on this matter, and I certainly do not want to prolong your time, neither the President nor the Minister, but when it is so important and I forgot to mention this transitional period more specifically, I will now take that opportunity. — In other words, the transitional period should be as long as possible because many entrepreneurs have invested in new equipment in recent years or even this year. A boxcar easily pays between 250,000 and 300000euro on the Alvin,and if the transition time is There should be a transitional period of between 5 and 6 years — at least — for this legislation if that is the case. — — — — President, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u69	And the minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-07-ps-36.u70	Thank you! Well, first of all, these employment effects. In other words, the increase in waste collection and treatment alone is estimated to have a significant impact on employment. These are, of course, rough estimates. But we also know that, of course, when that separate collection improves and then we have collected, sorted waste, so will business opportunities for that waste increase. It is then another question as to the type of business activity around it. But we know that the mere fact that more bio-waste is being collected in the future will then enable biogas plants to exploit it and will lead to investment. Well, then, Mrs Hoskonen raised the issue of the end-of-waste rules. They are also being reformed. In other words, the aim is to streamline and harmonise the decision-making of the authorities on a case-by-case basis. It would contribute to the development of new products from waste materials, and that is what we obviously need to make it available, re-use. This proposal therefore provides for a decision to be taken on the end of the classification of waste in a streamlined environmental permit procedure, and I hope that this will also bring the speed and fluency that the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has called for here.
