ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 6/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session of 28.3.2021. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u2	Honorable Speaker! I object to the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u3	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mrs Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u4	Mr President! I object to Article 2 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u5	Mr President! I support Mr Kauma's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u6	The vote will take place first on the Pia Kauman proposal against Ville Vähämäki's proposal and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u7	Honorable Speaker! I object to the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u8	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a proposal made by a small hill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u9	Mr President! I object to Article 5 of the proposed amendment to section 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u10	Mr President! I support Mr Kauma's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u11	The vote will take place first on the Pia Kauman proposal against Ville Vähämäki's proposal and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u12	Honorable Speaker! I object to Amendment 5a.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u13	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a proposal made by a small hill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u14	Mr President! I object to Amendment No 2 to Article 5a.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u15	Mr President! I support Mr Kauma's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u16	The vote will take place first on Ville Vähämäki's proposal against Pia Kauma's proposal and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u17	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u18	Mr President! The government gave 28. On 1 March, the Council adopted a regulation temporarily restricting the opening hours of nutritionists in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. This Regulation lays down the areas in which the temporary closure clause added to the Act on Accommodation and Nutrition shall apply. In addition, the Regulation provides for the types of restaurants and the premises of restaurants subject to restrictions. Since the law on the closure of the catering business was dealt with in Parliament as an exception to fundamental rights in exceptional circumstances in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, this decree adopted pursuant to that law has been brought in for parliamentary ex post verification in the same way as the regulations on the introduction of articles of the Emergency Act. This Regulation therefore provides for a ban on the movement of nutrition in those areas where it is necessary to prevent the spread of covid-19. Under the Regulation, the movements of nutrition must be kept closed in the worst epidemiological areas. The Government has assessed the need to close restaurants by region based on the expertise of health authorities. In the case of Åland, account has been taken of the epidemic situation in the province and the constitutional committee's line that the Government must seek agreement with the Åland authorities on the proper and timely application of the regulation in the province. In addition, the Government has assessed the possibilities to narrow the regional scope of the regulation further than the regional division required by Parliament. This assessment was carried out in the context of the preparation of the regulation, taking into account the current epidemic situation and the specific characteristics of the provinces. The report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy referred to such characteristics as long distances and low population density. The Regulation also takes account of the quality of the restaurant activities carried out separately, i.e. whether the main purpose of the activity is the issue of alcoholic beverages or other catering services. Furthermore, the regulation now contains specific provisions on the closure of indoor and outdoor spaces in restaurants. In the current epidemic situation, it is necessary to significantly reduce the physical encounters of the adult population, particularly those aged 20 to 45, in order to prevent the epidemic from increasing dramatically and to ensure that the epidemic is reversed. It is therefore necessary, at this stage, to impose a barrier on all types of feeding businesses and their indoor and outdoor spaces. For the above reasons, the restaurants must be kept closed to customers in Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi, Satakunta, Kanta-Häme, Pirkanmaa, Päijät-Häme, Central Finland, Kymenlaakso, South Karelia, Etelä-Savo, North Savo, North Karelia, Ostrobothnia and North Ostrobothnia. In the region of Lapland, the restaurants must be kept closed to customers in the municipality of Kittilä. In regions not covered by the restriction, nutrition stores can continue to be open to customers. These companies must comply with the restrictions imposed by and under the Act on communicable diseases. The regulation on the closure is in force on 18 June. Adopted by the Commission on 15 April. The closure of nutrition movements must be limited to the minimum necessary at regional and time level, so the Government will monitor the development of the disease situation during the period of validity of the regulation, based on expert data from the National Institute for Health and Welfare. The situation is assessed weekly. Restrictions must be introduced in those areas where they are no longer necessary. New areas can also be added if the disease situation worsens. In addition, the evaluation takes into account the above-mentioned type of restaurant review required by Parliament and the policy that the indoor activities of nutrition stores constitute a more serious risk to the spread of the virus than the services of customers in the outdoors. The next assessment of the need for restrictions will be made tomorrow, 7.4. On the basis of the opinion received from THL. If evaluations so require, the Government will take measures to amend the Regulation immediately. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u19	Like this. — Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u20	Mr President! This Government decree on temporary restrictions on the opening of restaurants has therefore been sent to Parliament for ex post verification, since the regulation is already in force. This is a referral debate, from which the matter is referred to committee. From the committee it will come back to this plenary session and to the only reading. The law to which the regulation applies is intended to be in force until the end of the following week on 18 April. What more is this than just theater? The government imposes arbitrarily blocking measures, and the opposition whistles over the inequality of the regions. We're going, and we've gone to the woods for a long time, so that the bellboy's going. The majority of the people have lived in fear, and some are still afraid because their representatives are afraid. A large proportion of the people are already planning to take the reins into their own hands because their representatives do not understand how to stop being afraid, and that part of the population is growing all the time. It's time to whistle the whole corona game off. Mr President! Dr. Iivi Masso, a former adviser to the Estonian President, is familiar with democracy, underlining in the latest Finnish Military magazine that corona exceptions pose a threat to democracy. He even says this: "When writing this, Finland is in a comparable state of emergency to war." Masso means something else, but I have long stressed that the government is playing with social peace. The cause is the corona, which has not increased mortality in our country but whose severity is compared in mass to the infectious disease that causes death and even to the military threat. But there is no such thing, and statistics tell us that. However, many fundamental rights have now been suspended: the right to work and freedom of business, freedom of assembly and expression, even freedom of movement, was already being restricted. These absurd laws also jeopardise the right to freedom and immunity and the principle of criminal law by allowing people to be harassed on the basis of a mere suspicion of illness. The government claims that the situation is so serious that the state of emergency is justified. There is much talk of science in this context, but in the public domain restrictions are very selectively justified by science. All of this is a delusion of living and misleading, and on the basis of it the interpretations of the law are nothing more than parody. This is a very deliberate cause of great harm to businesses and thus to citizens and society as a whole. Mr President! There are cold examples in history of enslavement to the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to enslave the Finnish people, what should we do? Well, first of all, we need a threat that can be imaginary or real and that creates widespread fear. Secondly, there must be media to spread fear. Thirdly, it must be argued that the situation requires strong action by political leaders. [Aki Lindén’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u23	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u24	Madam President! The good minister and colleagues and the rest of the plenary session will follow! We are dealing with a Government regulation on the temporary limitation of the opening hours of nutritionists in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. This is a so-called three-week extension of the restaurant lock, which therefore took effect before Easter and is now coming to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an ex-post review, assessing the proportionality and necessity of this proposal. I was wondering if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs now finds that this ban was neither proportionate nor necessary, then what action will be taken with regard to that Passover, which has now gone under these blocking measures. In other words, 14 provinces are represented here, and Closed restaurants in Kittilä municipality 18. Adopted by the Commission on 15 April. Parliament's will for a more detailed regional review has been widely expressed in this Chamber. Even the central MPs as representatives of the Government Party have strongly promoted it, but it is not the case in this restaurant closure decision, since THL does not seem to be able to provide the government with municipal assessments, except for Lapland. With the exception of Lapland, the government therefore adopted its latest restriction decision by region, as Prime Minister Sanna Marin stated that THL was unable to provide more precise regional assessments. Marin said to Iltalehti: ‘The Commission has required that in large regions we should try to assess the disease situation in smaller regions. THL, for its part, has stated that they are unable to carry out a smaller assessment at regional level by municipality.’ However, in the context of this case, the Laplanders pointed out that the current situation in individual municipalities With the exception of Kittilä, this is largely in line with the baseline. The decision to open the restaurants in Lapland, taken by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, was therefore based on the views of the municipal leaders and health authorities in Lapland. In fact, the decision was taken against the negative position of THL. According to Mika Salminen of THL, it was recommended that the restaurants be closed for Lapland. Nutrition stores must now be kept closed to customers in Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi, Satakunta, Kanta-Häme, Pirkanmaa, Päijät-Häme, Kymenlaakso, South Karelia, South Savo, North Savo, North Karelia, Central Finland, Ostrobothnia, North Ostrobothnia and Kittilä municipality. Therefore, Åland, Southern Ostrobothnia, Central Ostrobothnia and Kainuu are not included in the blockade. In addition, restaurants in the province of Lapland can be open except for Kittilä municipality. The Government is committed to amending the regulation if the closure in a region is no longer necessary or if the disease situation becomes more serious in a region, and in these areas the restaurants may then be slightly open until 23. The lock therefore applies to all catering companies, with the exception of staff restaurants, and the closing catering companies include cafés, restaurants, bars and nightclubs that have previously been open to the public and are now closed for the second three weeks. The lock also applies to terraces. However, according to the pick-up rates, sales are also allowed during the lock, but it is not possible to enjoy them on the restaurant terrace. Mr President! For many Finnish entrepreneurs, this closure decision is an economic disaster. Entrepreneur Jarkko Kuusisto, Actives of Kittilä Entrepreneurs, brought up these concerns a long time ago and pleaded that solutions should be made so that, for example, these terrace areas of the slope restaurants could be used. There was no understanding of this by the government. The THL has not been able to narrow these areas further apart from that Lappia, but evening magazine, journalist Tommi Parkkonen, did. According to a report from the evening newspaper, there are 24 municipalities in Finland in the restaurant block area where there have been between 0 and 4 infections throughout this year. Yet even the restaurants in these regions have been ordered to be shut down by the Marin government. Most of these municipalities are located in Northern Savo — Kaavi, Keitele, Rautavaara, Tervo, Tuusniemi, Vesanto — but they are also found in Kanta-Häme, such as Humpila, Southern Savo, Pertunmaa, North Karelia Heinävesi and Rääkkylä, Kannonkoski, Kinnula, Luhanka and Multia and so on. In the evening newspaper, it was interesting news about how Salouna Parila, located on Lake Lestijärvi in Central Ostrobothnia, is located 25 km and about 20 minutes from Ruska Bari. It can still be open, even on Easter until 11:00. Entrepreneur Marja Hakkarainen said: "It is an unfair situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u28	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u29	Madam President! In the meantime, we heard some very good points of view about this restaurant regulation. I thank the Minister for your continued presence. I myself have a few questions that I would like to receive an answer to. First of all, from this general situation: we Finns widely share the reality that the fight against corona is absolutely necessary in order to deal with all those who need treatment. Even in recent days, there have been terrible examples of how the spread of corona has filled hospitals and cemeteries. But when this situation is only prolonged and prolonged, it is quite clear that this precision and fineness in these restrictions are needed to the extent that it is possible to do so, taking into account health safety. It is also quite clear that, now that the limitation period has been prolonged, human tolerance is being more and more tested, and it is equally clear that during this year we have learned something and that it is worth taking advantage of and introducing these lessons. Mr President! Parliament has called for a more precise delimitation of the limits for the regions as well. Among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have drawn attention to the need to take account of the type of activity they carry out in these restaurants, whether it is actually a lunch restaurant or mainly a business focused on alcohol. Part of the precision has been achieved, but not much has been done in this regulation, as has already been heard, which closes all restaurants in these provinces except Lapland. We also have other regions where the distances really are long and where there are large areas where there have been no infections for weeks. Before Easter, I was in contact with Kuusamo, which gave me an estimate that the arrest for Easter there is estimated to be a bankruptcy of between 10 and 15 companies. The situation is similar elsewhere, and every day the restaurant is closed is a severe economic blow to both the entrepreneur and his family and the families of his employees. In its assessment of the law underlying this regulation, the Economic Committee stated that it considered it necessary for the provinces where the characteristics of the province make it clear that the disease cluster in the province does not spread easily or necessarily to the whole territory of the province, the Government Decree adopted under this law defines an epidemic situation, relying more precisely on the level of the province in which the feeding movements should be kept closed. Mr President! It seems that this will not be the last time that interest rate restrictions are made per region. It would therefore be important to know now how this has been done and how it will be done in future, in the background materials of this regulation, when it says: ‘Administrative CounsellorLiisa Huhtala, the Ministry of Labour and the Economy, sent an e-mail on Friday 26 March 2021 klo11.38Development of the State Council’s regulation on the prevention of HIV infection in the Lappish district to MarkkuBroksi and the Chief Medical OfficerJukkaMattttila and the School of Science,as well as the assessment of the non-exemption of the closure of restaurants. “ It is good that it was possible to carry out this municipal review for Lapland, but it would be important, however, that all regions were in the same position and treated fairly and equally. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister: has there been similar contact with other regions in the Ministry before the regulation was adopted, so that they too have the opportunity to be prepared for a municipal examination if the disease situation so permits? And if there has been no contact with other regions from the Ministry, why has this not been done? Mr President! It was a good thing to hear the Minister say that this regulation is now being evaluated immediately this week, whether I understood it correctly, tomorrow, but it would be good to have an answer to this question of equality between regions for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u30	This is where the debate will begin in a moment, but let us take one more speech that has been asked for in advance. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u31	Madam President! Easter is behind us, and it showed that Finns have learned to work well according to instructions and restrictions during the corona. The number of infections has fallen, but the number is of course so high that adult contacts should continue to be restricted. The regulation under consideration provides for areas where nutritional movements are to be kept closed, i.e. the closure continues. It also lays down the types of restaurants and facilities to be subject to restrictions. On several occasions the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out the territorial necessity of restrictions and a finer division than the provinces, and this requirement and observation are particularly emphasised when the situation is renewed and prolonged. Our regions are very different. In my birthplace, Merijärvi has not, as I understand it, had any infection during the whole corona period. Nevertheless, the only nutrition store in the village is closed. There are very different areas, and a wide area, the province of North Ostrobothnia, is also considered as one region. When we look at the map of Finland, Northern Ostrobothnia, Kainuu and Lapland make up about half of our country's surface area. Since Kainuu is at the basic level, there the nutrition stores are open, and it is good that this regulation opens up the municipality of Kittilä except for the movements in Lapland. As Mr Aittakumpu has already said, it is important that the regions are treated equally. When we look at that map, there are tourist centres in Kuusamo, Taivalkoski and Pudasjärvi between Kainuu tourist centres and Lapland tourist centres. They are all sparsely populated regions, with low population density. Today it is good to remember and recall what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said on this point: ‘In accordance with the Constitutional Treaty, the existence of regulation must be limited to the minimum necessary. The committee has also drawn attention to the need for the Government to closely monitor the need for regulation. The Government shall immediately take measures to amend the Government Regulation on the regional application of regulation if it is no longer necessary to keep the premises of the catering business closed in any area.’ It was good to hear Minister Haatainen say that tomorrow we will look at that situation again on the basis of the THL's assessment. If one or two more words about this situation in Northern Ostrobothnia: it is, of course, moving towards the basic level, which in a sense will eliminate this problem, but in the future, when we look at these various restrictive measures, it is important that the Government constantly follows this when regulations should be amended and withdrawn. The second issue that arises here is the different types of nutritionist movement, which have also been repeatedly addressed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These different types are mentioned here, but the same locks apply to all of them. I therefore look forward to this type-approval leading, if necessary, to genuinely differentiated restrictive measures in different municipalities. I would also like to hear from the Minister about the future: when will we get to such a genuine regulation of municipal restrictions by type of restaurant?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u32	Now we are going to launch a brief debate on this matter. Debatin will be initiated by Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u33	Mr President! We have dealt with this issue on several occasions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the main surprise has been why only the province of Lapland has been given a better look. However, we know and have received statements from the health care districts that, in North Ostrobothnia, for example, this similar finer division between municipalities with infections and those without infections should have been made, and a similar message has also come from North Karelia. So I ask you, Minister: what is the basis for the interpretation that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has meant, in your opinion, that this fineness only applies to Lapland and not to other provinces, and how do you intend to rectify this matter in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u34	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u35	Madam President! Centralers had such good speeches that there was even whispering that it would be a center of government. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u36	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u37	Madam President! Finland has 310 municipalities. When I leave Turku to drive the Eighth Road, the municipalities change every five minutes. It's the same when I'm on the Ten Road. It is very challenging to make a municipal restriction when we have a pandemic. A pandemic is a global epidemic, and it is not an epidemic of salmonella in one municipality. I think it is good now that this has been started with regard to Lapland, because there are, however, considerable differences between Lapland and North Ostrobothnia and North Savo. Lapland has an area of 100,000 square kilometres and a population density of less than 2. The area of North Savo is 20,000 square kilometres, the population density is 15 per square kilometre and the area of North Ostrobothnia is 37,000 square kilometres and the population density is 12 per square kilometre. There is a fundamental difference here. It's good to have started in Lapland. We'll take a closer look in the future, but we have a pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u38	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u42	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u43	Madam President! There are remote municipalities, but it must also be noted that tourist destinations are gathering people but, as a rule, infections are recorded at the place of residence of the person, where the actual source is not known, and it is therefore impossible to carry out a very precise assessment. It should also be noted, as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has stressed, that the most harmful to the economy is the widespread spread of the virus. For example, when combating mobility restrictions, the whole Parliament has stressed the need to restrict contacts and not mobility. According to a number of expert opinions — including those from outside the THL, which have also been heard by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy — it is easy to see that there are unfortunately such situations in restaurants where many risk factors are combined. Restaurants spend longer indoors, and it is also not possible to wear masks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u44	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u45	Madam President! The disease is transmitted where people meet each other, and according to accumulated experience it is particularly transmitted where the wine flows and the song sings. Restaurant closures are therefore justified in areas where the disease is spreading. However, it is difficult to justify the fact that restaurants are also kept closed in areas where there are only individual or no infections. Parliament has required a more detailed examination of the regional level, and this review has now been carried out in this regulation for Lapland, but not for Northern Ostrobothnia, for example. I understand that for practical reasons, it is difficult for the Government and the expert THL to look at all regions from the municipality. I see, therefore, that the Government could systematically ask the regional interest rate coordination groups, which have the best knowledge of the epidemic situation in their region and the potential needs for differentiation, as well as an interest in keeping it under control of the disease situation in the region. Mr President! The main thing is that different regions should be treated with uniform criteria when deciding on a restaurant closure.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u46	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u47	Madam President! Aittakumpu, the representative of the Government Party Centre, gave harsh messages about future forecasts for restaurant entrepreneurs in Kuusamo, for example. In the next few weeks, businesses are going down by tens. This harsh situation will also be seen in other provinces, not only in Lapland, and at that point cost support will be of no help. Today we were able to read in the newsletter of Finnish Entrepreneurs how fatigue and frustration with constantly changing and tightening restriction practices raise their heads among entrepreneurs. In addition to the financial situation of business, many entrepreneurs are also concerned about their own health and the health of their neighbors. Timo Lappi, Managing Director of Tourism and Restaurant Services, estimates that the restaurant sector is now facing closure much weaker than it was during the restaurant closure last spring. This is a good thing to keep in mind,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u48	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u49	Mr President! Indeed, it is excellent that we have now been able to carry out a more detailed examination of one province than required by the Parliament and the Constitutional Committee. However, I am surprised, as has been pointed out in previous speeches, which is why no similar examination has been carried out and why this same intensity has not been used for other regions. There are other regions in Finland where distances, for example, are so long that they would be subject to exactly the same criteria as Lapland. This concerns, on the one hand, the constitutional requirement, the necessity and proportionality of these restrictive measures, but also the equal treatment of restaurants. There are operators, restaurant entrepreneurs, who are sole entrepreneurs, and the Constitution requires equal treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u50	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u51	Madam President! It is indeed a good thing that the government has now clearly taken into account the position of the Constitutional Committee and Parliament, and this fine-tuning has now been introduced into this regulation of the functioning of restaurants in Lapland, which has the lowest population density and the widest distances, as Mr Lindén said in his good speech. I assume, of course, that this will also be assessed for the rest of the country in the future, when these restrictions on restaurants may have to continue from now on. This is now a good idea to set the scale in which, for example, this corona situation actually exists in France. Just this morning we read in the news that in France, which is the cradle of European restaurant culture, all restaurants and cafés have been closed for five months. We're trying to live three weeks in cycles because of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u52	At this point I will give two replies, then to the Minister, and then we will go to the list of speakers: Mr Koponen, Mr Ari and Mr Eestilä. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u53	President! As we have heard here, this territoriality of restrictions does not work at all, but is completely arbitrary. Now that we are certainly continuing to close the restaurants, the government will also bring a proposal to the Parliament to compensate for the loss of restaurants and other businesses. The lock is a completely unsustainable situation for restaurants, so the damage must be compensated, and the compensation must also be fair in relation to the lost income. The cost support of companies is one of the key support instruments in the face of a prolonged virus pandemic and the financial difficulties it causes. It is therefore completely unreasonable for companies to be far too slow to apply for and pay for these cost subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u54	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u55	Mr President! After all, in the Finnish legal system, equal treatment is usually quite high when regulations are adopted. Of course, there are many kinds of entrepreneurs and limited companies and listed companies in the restaurant business. Another thing, which is also important, is that the justifications of the law must be such that they go everywhere and they are universal, so to speak, and that a decision can be based on them without any apparent notion of arbitrary behaviour or anything else that the Finnish administration does not know. I myself come from North Savo, and the neighbouring region is there in North Karelia, and I do not think that these are too large a region to be able to identify where the disease situation is at the moment. When there are small localities, there are small restaurants — the floor area is large and few customers — it would have been reasonable for North Savo and North Karelia to have a little more and better looked at this situation on a municipal basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u56	And here, at the end of the debate, Minister Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u57	Mr President! Thank you for the conversation. This law and this regulation have not been made for pleasure. This is where Congressman Turtiainen appealed to the Constitution. The Constitution requires that state power protects the health and life of its citizens, and that is why this law is made a law of limitation. Here in Parliament there is the Act on communicable diseases under discussion, and hopefully it will also be available soon, so that the government and the authorities will have more tools in place to control these infections. Why is Lapland chosen here? Lapland has been chosen because the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy called for a definition of the regions where the characteristics of the province, such as long distances and low population density, make it clear that there is no easy spread of an infectious cluster in the region. Thus, when this opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs came and the law was adopted, Finland was reviewed, and Lapland stands out quite clearly there: a huge area, long distances and population density 2. In other words, it was clearly available as an area where a more detailed examination will be carried out. We didn't get it from THL. We asked the medical districts for a statement, which we then received during the weekend. From there came the suggestion that Kittilä Municipality is covered by this restriction measure and that other municipalities can be released because of the infection situation. Here, from the outset, the opinion of the THL was that we should go by region and that is what we have been following. This point of view is again this week. Tomorrow we will have these figures and then we will look again at the situation with regard to this regulation. As has been said, it will look precisely at whether we are at the basic level, at the stage of acceleration or at the stage of spread, and it will say that these solutions are being made and otherwise we are going to go through this more closely. Of course, this is a problem for companies, but Mr Honkonen's speech was a good one, and he described what I myself think we have in Europe, where restaurants have been shut down for months. In Finland, however, we have been able to take decisions in a timely and reasonably precise manner that have allowed the epidemic to be contained in such a way that there has not been an absurd increase in mortality rates, and even here we have been able to control the infections. But now this transmutation virus is a new phenomenon and has caused this new wave, and that is why this law and this regulation had to be introduced. It's just a necessity in this situation where we run.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u58	A moment ago, I was wrong to say that we are moving on to the list of speakers. At this point we cannot move on to the list of speakers, because we have spent 45 minutes in advance. This is where the debate and the proceedings are suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u59	We shall now continue with the debate on item 4 that was previously suspended at this sitting. — — — — Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u60	Thank you, Madam President. The temporary limitation of the restaurant square is what we are discussing here, and colleagues have already gone to the debatals to look forward to the need for a more precise identification of these areas, where these closure measures are necessary and where they are not. However, with regard to this regulation, which we are looking at here, I believe that the most important question for Parliament to answer is whether the health criteria were ignored in this discussion of the restaurant closure and whether there was some kind of regional policy lever in the decision-making process. I look at this as a representative of the Nordic Parliament, and there was a feeling of confusion about the situation: North Savo, which was at the basic level, is still at the basic level, on Sunday night a few hours before midnight, found out that all the restaurants in that area must be caught, while the one in the acceleration phase Lapland received the opposite information, i.e. that all restaurants except Kittilä can be open. And when North Savo had not even limited the place and time of drinking before that decision, it was quite an outrage. This is where some fellow Member listed the municipalities in the provinces with less than five infections, i.e. that do not reach these THL statistics, and in that cluster there were most small municipalities in North Savo, so you can well imagine that this Sunday night decision, which came at the time, was received with some consternation. Indeed, there were only a few hours left for entrepreneurs to think about what to do with all the food they had ordered for the coming week, how to prepare for the situation of people coming on duty in the morning, and in that sense the ministry must be given towels that in some way these changes should be more predictable for entrepreneurs. It cannot be that the Ministry has such a weak understanding of business. It is not possible to pull down restaurant activities at a couple of hours’ notice — although it is difficult to pull them up too — but, in some way, we should give advance warnings, especially in an area where there really was a basic level and where no signal told us that the restaurants were suddenly closed. In that sense, I hope that, when the Constitutional Committee is considering this proportionality and also the need to be precise, it would now be possible to go through the question of whether the health criteria were really the only criteria or whether there were other criteria. I hope this is not the case, because if we get a signal to the citizens that it will be at the end of the game. . . [President : Three minutes!] — I'm moving in. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u61	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u62	Mr President! As an MEP from the South, I am, of course, in favour of the relief of returning to the basic level of interest in our province, and I believe and hope, of course, that this will continue. But this concern and special arrangements for restaurant services continue in so many regions. In order to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, contact between people must be avoided, and this is the logic we have been pursuing in decision-making for more than a year now. It is clear, however, that the restrictions must be made with very careful consideration, precision and even more subtle in order to avoid restrictions that do not appear to be fair. The closure of restaurants has caused, as we have heard in this Chamber, amazement in many places. In many areas smaller than the province, the incidence rate of the corona may also be much lower than that of the whole province. Of course, it is clear and also noteworthy that the free movement of people makes it possible to travel from a restricted area to a restricted area. In spite of this, I believe it is important that we try to focus the restrictive measures more closely. Indeed, a municipal examination has already been carried out for the Province of Lapland. Long distances provide good grounds for this. However, I would also encourage Minister Hatainen and the government as a whole to continue in the direction that the provinces should not be dealt with as one, but that the Lapland model should also apply to the rest of Finland. Similarly, I am still very supportive of the fact that the types of restaurants should be distributed more enthusiastically as to the category of risk involved. You don't need a rocket mindset to understand these risk profiles and their differences. President! Of course, it must also continue to be said that the best restaurant support is still not only for restaurants, but above all for the responsible behaviour of each of us. So let's not take a shot, but support restaurants by using services responsibly everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u63	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u64	Mr President! After all, there was such a parliamentary speciality in this debate that, although we are having a referral debate here, the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already been finalised this afternoon. But that's how it's gonna be. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is therefore examining this epidemic situation and, in particular, its economic impact. The disease and its eradication is a priority, but it is quite clear that the various restrictions and brackets must also be aimed at enabling companies to continue their activities even in the face of these restrictions and closures, and Finland's economic growth would later be possible. Mr President! A number of discussions have taken place today in relation to this regulation. One thing has not yet come up so significantly. One thing that needs to be taken into account in the implementation of the restaurant closure is that the views of the THL, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the local hospital districts on what is necessary to combat the epidemic differ significantly. If, as a representative of the opposition, you try to understand the government, then the government is in a difficult situation when it listens to the views of the THL and then the medical districts become a different view. As a result, I find it a little bit now that these local experts, or hospital districts, have remained, as it were, a screaming voice in the wilderness when the national guidelines of the THL have moved forward. I believe that this contradiction must be resolved. Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have highlighted the finer nature and the more detailed examination of the regions. That's what we've been talking about: the lock has to take account of distances and so on. In the context of this regulation, Lapland was given special treatment in a certain way, even though it was not the state of mind expressed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We have had medical districts in the expert consultation, many of whose opinions state that the closure of food restaurants is not even necessary at the time of the surge of the corona epidemic, that is, across the board, and if such an assessment comes from responsible authorities, then one might imagine that it will have some effect, but instead the THL is doing this on a larger bench, which is understandable. If there was a minister here, I could ask which one he would stress. If you take the Seinäjoki River, for example, who knows better the epidemic situation in Seinäjoki, the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia or THL? However, that is quite a lot at stake here. The second point I raise is that, when we are talking about the treatment of these provinces, it is my opinion that the report on these other provinces was not even made. In other words, Lappi was raised from there and it was subject to assessments and municipal considerations, and it was then the result that this specific criterion was applied to Lapland. Mr President! It has become clear to me that for many hospital districts, the complete closure of traditional food restaurants has been almost pointless in terms of managing the epidemic — a verbatim quote from a few expert reports. As a result, and in order to avoid growing economic shocks, it is therefore necessary to make a correction and quickly implement the separation of restaurants so as to open restaurants as quickly as possible in areas undergoing initial and acceleration. During today's debate, I heard that the Minister said that this regulation was already being evaluated tomorrow. It is now a place for re-evaluation so that these economic damage is minimised. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u65	When reference has been made to the absence of the Minister a few times in previous speeches, I would say at this point that he was informed that he was in the government negotiations and asked Parliament to tell it. So this is for the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u66	Madam President! I'll pick up where the last speaker left off. As many Members have said here today, this distinction needs to be made according to these restaurant activities, i.e. nightclubs and bars should be closed, but cafés and lunch restaurants should be open. I am sure that this is where the government will now carefully weigh these decisions and consider how to move forward. It cannot be that this legislation is here in such a way that when you listen to the speeches made by the representatives, the attitude comes according to the province in which they become, that is, the situation there with regard to restaurants, but we must be able to assess the situation in the whole country and also the fact that everyone is treated equally. I welcome the fact that: From Lapland, the finer assessment was made because, as has been said here, the distances are long and the population base is very small, and it was provided according to the fact that, apart from Kittila, places could be opened. But as the Centre has already spoken since the beginning of this legislative work, that fineness is needed and must be evaluated — Mr Sankelo has spoken with great merit in this regard. Similarly, according to the question of North Savo, Mr Essayah raised the fact that it was extremely unreasonable, considering that there, suddenly, a few hours before he arrived, it was announced that there too the seats would be closed. So I know that we are in the middle of a crisis, but we should continue to be prepared for the fact that these entrepreneurs know how to react to the decisions that lie ahead, because orders and others must be made in good time. Of course, it will then require the legislators, but above all the draftsmen, to have knowledge and understanding, especially if the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is to be considered. They are under a lot of pressure at work, but hopefully they will also contact and engage in good dialogue with other ministries, such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which then evaluates the business activity. But, as has been shown in these speeches, whether in government or opposition, there is the capacity here to make changes and also to assess precisely what the effects have been on the disease situation as well as on the situation of businesses. It has to be said, Mr President, that there is not enough money in this country to compensate all entrepreneurs for these losses, so it is of course important that we open up business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u67	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u68	Mr President! Restaurants are kept closed for the time being in most countries. These restrictions apply equally to food - serving shops serving alcohol as their main activity as well as to other food - feeding establishments, i.e. in practice food restaurants. The law would allow for the separation of these two groups, and food restaurants could be allowed to be more flexiblely open. Mr President! If safety intervals are well maintained and the restaurant has tables to serve, there is reason to assume that the risk of infection is not very high indoors, especially if the restaurant’s air conditioning is good. Now that we are approaching a warmer time of the year and also the possibility of terrace activities on the grounds of the weather soon, it would be good to make it possible to open up the outdoor areas of restaurants, since the risk of spreading the corona is much lower outdoors than indoors. The third point that I draw attention to is that the disease situation varies very strongly from region to region, including within regions. This should be possible in a flexible way in decision-making. In Lapland, restaurants were allowed to open in other municipalities except Kittilä during the Easter season. Similar municipal reviews should also be applied elsewhere, as the situation is now unfair to many nutritious businesses when the disease situation is good, but if the law requires that the doors of restaurants be closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u69	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u70	Mr President! We are dealing here with a regulation which has closed restaurants in several regions and in several places before Easter, and this is a sort of a post-clearance check on this regulation. That is certainly what is needed, as has been well demonstrated in this debate. It is good that we have finally achieved a little better finer with regard to the handling of these restaurants, as far as the closure is concerned. And hopefully this approach will continue and improve in the future when we consider how this restaurant business can continue in the future. It is regrettable, however, that somehow there has still been a lack of thinking in Finland about how people behave, so now we are looking only at the regional infection situation. In the case of Uusimaa, for example, it is obvious that the criteria for closing the restaurants are met, but it was also well known before Easter that from both Uusimaa and other parts of Southern Finland, where there are many infections, will travel to Lapland to celebrate Easter, and then whether there is a certain number of infections in Kittilä municipality or Kolari municipality or Enontekio or Muonio is quite insignificant. So it's kind of funny that in Kittilä the restaurants were closed, but next door, for example in Muonio, they were allowed to be open — of course limited — when quite a few people from the south to go there on Easter vacation went there in their own cars and the distance of a few ten kilometres is not a trip or anything at that distance. Therefore, it might have been reasonable for such municipalities as: Kittilä, where one of the largest ski resorts is located, Levi, could have been allowed, for example, to use terraces, making it easier for restaurants to comply with all the measures to avoid such infections. That is the purpose and justification of all of these to avoid, as far as possible, the emergence of coronavirus infections. And I understand that, both in parliamentary procedure and then by all the expert authorities, the risk of infection outside is very much lower and very low, especially if we stick to our own table parties. It is a little funny what we have read in the media, that instead of necessarily driving it to the neighborhood, for example, there are restaurants, terraces, practically moved outside its official terrace area and then practically enjoyed those lunches. This is, of course, a good thing that this can be done under this law, but it is certainly not appropriate to ban this patio activity. - I'm going to move in the front when I see it's taking a while. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! Just a few more words. Of course, according to the type of restaurant, consideration is another issue that should definitely be considered in the future. It is obvious that if we go to the karaoke bar and sing, the risk of infection is quite different from going to dinner at the restaurant, and this is something that Parliament has also called for. In addition to that, what has caused a lot of work among restaurant entrepreneurs is, of course, where many people think it would be even better to be completely closed than so limitedly open as it is now planned, for example, for New Zealand, that it might be possible to be after this blockade has ended. On the other hand, many people feel that it is good to be able to act in a limited way. What is not understood is why many decisions come at such short notice. Entrepreneurs must have the opportunity to prepare themselves. For example, if you look at this situation when this regulation exempts the whole province of Lapland, except Kittilä, then, in practice, for the next Monday, many people would probably have wanted to get that lunch service up, but are there any stores, are there staff? On the other hand, those who remain closed have had to be able to react in some way, for example with regard to staff, that there is no work available, and to see whether, for example, there has been the possibility of using the shift of shifts, which has now been made to the Mara sector as an exception, to move the shifts to the next few weeks in a slightly more flexible way than in the normal situation. Or, knowing that, even now, this blockade is going to be six weeks in a row, then, of course, in that situation, lay off will certainly come to many things. So this anticipation has been virtually impossible for many people. On the other hand, if you consider decisions now, for example, whether the lock will continue, or when it first came, if you have ordered a warehouse full of food, for example, and it will then be left there, so to speak, contaminated, then that too is totally unreasonable and also quite absurd.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u71	Congressman Holopainen's gone. — Mr Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u72	Madam President! We are now dealing with this regulation here in retrospect, as it has begun to be applied before Easter. It is good, however, that Parliament will carry out an ex post check on this regulation. Parliament has had a broad will to carry out a thorough regional review in the direction of restrictive decisions. It is not in the government's decree. The Prime Minister himself has stated that restrictions should be assessed in smaller entities than the provinces, but this has not been the case. In almost all provinces, restaurants are now closed and in many places without an urgent need. The closure areas should have been distributed more finely. I believe that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also called for this, not just for Lapland, but for Finland as a whole. It is still unclear how closed restaurants will be compensated by the state in the future. Government closure decisions are an economic disaster for many entrepreneurs. I am surprised that the government distributes billions of dollars of money to the public sector. Even an extra municipality billion came, even though I don't think anyone even thought to ask for one. On the part of the company, the policy of compensation is therefore sassy. The application and payment mechanism has been made difficult, and not all interest payments can even be distributed to companies when applications need to be submitted by a consultant or otherwise unreasonably time and know-how. And the figure is that so many small entrepreneurs, and especially the sole entrepreneur, are completely out of step. That is not right, Mr President. How many of these companies are left to claim compensation? The aid and compensation process must be much faster and more straightforward. I know that the Ely Centres are genuinely working to save businesses, they are not to be blamed, but the slowness and indecisiveness of the government is counterproductive, as well as the complex compensation mechanisms will make it possible for many to receive support too late if it is to come. Sumsummarum: Throughout the country should also hear more regional hospital districts. They have more detailed information on the epidemic situation in their region, and the need for closure can be better assessed locally than by the Ministry and the THL. In the future, possible closures must take better account of the regional situation in order to avoid these unnecessary closures that have now been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u73	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u74	Tack, värderade talman! Vi diskuterar alltså alltjämt en stänning av restaurangerna och går igenom statsrådets förordning, och det som nu är nowt är att de rai begränsningarna inte längre gäller Södra Österbotten och inte Heller Lappland förutom Kittilä-området.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u75	Mr President! As Mr Strand said in his speech, this whole year has been a nightmare for Finnish restaurant entrepreneurs both economically and otherwise. While this future outlook is still a little uncertain, the more the government should be able to build a view here towards the summer and how companies can gradually open up their operations, because there is a situation close to the point that companies’ cashiers simply can't stand this exceptional state anymore. Mr President! One last thing to do with the Minister's speech this afternoon. In my opinion, he said quite clearly that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had stated in its report — even though it was not said directly — that it had been interpreted as meaning Lapland. Well, it was not meant to be, and when this report was discussed here in the Chamber, quite a few members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, including myself and probably Mr Strandkin, went to say that this is not a Lapland item. Perhaps this is just a reflection of the fact that no one is listening to our speeches here. Indeed, it was said many times, but the end result is that it was thought that this was now the case with Lapland. Well, I hope that this will enable serious scrutiny to be carried out in cooperation with the medical districts, including in other provinces. To conclude, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also gone through this risk of distortion of competition. If we look at these regions, Lapland and Northern Ostrobothnia, when last weekend there were Easter holidays and all the leisure opportunities, then there were inevitably competitive consequences. Many companies, especially in Northern Ostrobothnia, currently feel that this was not the way it was supposed to be. I would like the Constitutional Committee to ensure that, now that this report is made, all Finns, Finnish citizens and businesses are equal before the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u76	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u77	Mr President! Indeed, we have a government regulation in this so-called ex post review on the lock of restaurants. The regulation would be in force until 18 April and would continue this barrage of restaurants during March. When a week or so ago on Monday morning learned that the government has indeed made this regulation on Sunday night — and it came into force only a few hours after the regulation was adopted — and when we in the North Ostrobothnia region realized that the municipal review of Lapland had taken place during the weekend, it became very strongly felt during the day that what kind of political direction had taken place during that weekend. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as Mr Sankelo has just pointed out, has called for this survey of the restrictive measures in relation to nutritionists to be carried out in such a way as to differentiate between different types of restaurant shops. For less than a year now, it has been hoped that cafés and lunch restaurants, nightclubs, pubs and evening restaurants could be differentiated, and therefore regulation could be timely, reasonable for different types of nutritionists. I haven't seen this yet. However, when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also required a municipal review for certain larger regions, a week ago in Northern Ostrobothnia, a week ago, there was very bitter feedback from entrepreneurs that, although there was a situation in our region last week that there were 19 municipalities without any infection in the last two weeks, the incidence rate was 23.6% — i.e. on the way towards the basic level, and the incidence rates were better than in Lapland — but the government had not looked at the infection situations in the North Ostrobothnia region on a municipal basis, even though Parliament had demanded it in this particular case with regard to the restaurant closure. That is why, of course, it seems a little sad to deal with this issue now on Tuesday 6. 1 April in the Chamber. We all know that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has dealt with this regulation last week and has already completed its opinion on this regulation today on the Constitutional Committee. Knowing the situation in the whole restaurant sector over the past year — one of the bottom-up entrepreneurs called this a total slaughter, which is going to happen in the sector — few will survive. Cashiers are empty. You can't get a loan. At the moment, the banks are very soft on lending in the restaurant sector, and it is understandable, on the other hand, that the plans for the future are very foggy and dark in relation to the corona, but especially in relation to the fact that the restaurant sector has been closed down and restricted and, in every way, the freedom to conduct a business has been undermined during this year. It would be desirable for shorter days of lay-off periods, a reduction in VAT on alves or a negative VAT rate and the sale and sale of wines at a distance also to proceed, but most of all it would be hoped that, when certain things are required by Parliament, the government would do them equally, equally and fairly for all regions. That would be reasonable. And when there are representatives of the government parties in this Chamber, it is necessary to ask what political guidance was there for Lapland just over a week ago. Indeed, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy did not only refer to the region of Lapland, but also to all other regions, both North Ostrobothnia and some other regions. Mr President! It is clear that an update is needed for this regulation, and Minister Haatainen has promised that the next update will be made tomorrow, i.e. the government will review this regulation. All we can do is demand that these municipal levels of disease are now known to both the THL and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, so that tomorrow the government can also take the necessary decisions on this regulation, those who are fair and proportionate, and those required by Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u78	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u79	Madam President! As Talvitie reflected on what the Committee on Economic Affairs has recorded and how it has been interpreted, this simply indicates that it is all the more important these days that both the author and the reader are on the same page and that the texts are then assessed in that way. This was already seen earlier in the case of gyms and openrooms, and now it is the paper of the Committee on Economic Affairs. On the other hand, I cannot imagine, on behalf of the Minister, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has spoken about Lapland, for example, in saying that, as it says here, 'in the case of the provinces where the characteristics of the province are: Here too the problem is that when this paper, for example, was there, it did not even read which paper this is. When we're in the middle of a corona crisis, we're going to get things done fast. We have a Government decree — it is here, as it were, in a referral debate, and we have already carried out inspections — then we have a THL statement on regional stages, and then we have a paper entitled 'The epidemic situation in the municipalities of the province of Lapland in relation to the need to close restaurants'. However, no one knows who has done this, why this has been done, but by asking, it has become clear that this has been a document in preparation for the Government. So here I agree that there should be precision when these are recorded and done, but I think that the Minister answered correctly that day that they have interpreted this, as the committee has done. Of course, the committee has been able to demand that the whole country should have a more fine assessment of what I personally believe to be sensible, but this has now been assessed by means of long distances and low population density, which is precisely what is happening in the province of Lapland. While Mrs Talvitie is still here and you have already taken the floor, I would like to ask the Assembly's position on these sectoral divisions. When a couple of weeks ago there were discussions about restaurant clubs here, many of your representatives said that restaurants were either closed or open. Well, since today's debate has taken place so that, for example, cafés and lunch restaurants can be opened, bars and nightclubs can be held up, would this be all right for you? Of course, we do not agree here that this will happen, but it would be good if the opposition and the government were united in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u80	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u81	Tack, värderade talman! I actually asked for the floor so that I could speak to Mr Sankelo, who was able to leave, also commented on this exit plan and the view from the restaurants' point of view that how to get out of this and open it again and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u82	Madam President! First of all, Mr Ovaska takes an important view of how to deal with the regions, when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy actually instructed that certain regions' characteristics should be fulfilled. It is true that when there are long distances and low population density, the majority of southern people think that they are not met in Northern Ostrobothnia, that they are only met in Lapland. For example, on Easter I received one feedback from Ruka, Kuusamo, our region: why are those restaurants not, MP Talvitie, open here? I was kind enough to tell you that even though you've gone from the south pretty far and you've ended up at Ruka and Kuusamo, it's not Lapland, it's North Ostrobothnia. Next to Posio, the restaurants are open, but it's the Lapland side. A little bit more, I say that the majority of people who go to ski resorts in the south do not understand that Syöte, Ruka, Ruka and many other ski resorts, not to mention smaller ski resorts, are not in Lapland, but are in Northern Ostrobothnia, so in that sense it is understandable that it has been interpreted as a province with a low population density in Lapland by the Economic Committee, but it does have the same meaning for others, such as the provinces of Ostrobothnia. Mr Ovaska then asked the Assembly for its opinion on these type-specific restaurant recommendations. Yes, as a group, we have long been of the opinion that type-specific — such as a café, a nightclub, a luncheon restaurant, a evening restaurant — should be brought into the law. Now all we have is a diner and a restaurant. This would mean that it would be much easier to regulate it. Now, of course, we have regulated it at the time: for example, in Lapland, where the restaurants have been open, they have been open to 22-23 and 75 per cent filling. Everyone knows that when the restaurant closes at 10:00, it doesn't apply to nightclubs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u83	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u84	Mr President! In accordance with its programme, the Government has prepared a draft law on the legal status of foreign collectors of natural products. The proposal proposes a law on the legal status of foreigners collecting natural products. The aim of the proposal is to improve the legal status of foreigners collecting natural products and to reduce the risk of exploitation. In addition, the aim is to ensure a level playing field for natural products companies. The achievement of these objectives would increase the conditions for the development, growth and international competitiveness of the Finnish natural products sector. This is also in the interests of the consumer. The proposed law would not affect the position of the collector of natural products. The law would apply when it is not considered to be an employment relationship. If it is an employment relationship, labour law would apply as it is today. Nor would the proposed law affect the definition of everyman’s rights. The collection of natural products should continue to take place within the framework of everyman's rights without causing any disturbance to landowners. If the collection cannot be carried out without causing disturbance or if natural products other than those permitted by everyman’s rights are collected, a landowner’s permit is required, as is the case today. Mr President! Since 2005, the industrial recovery of natural products in Finland has relied heavily on collectors from Thailand to be invited to Finland. In recent years, Thailand has become around 2,500 people per year in Finland for the collection of natural products. Ukraine and Russia have become some hundreds of collectors of natural products each year. Since autumn 2014, a letter of intent procedure for the collection of natural products has been applied between the authorities and natural products companies. The procedure is based on the commitment of the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The aim of the procedure is to ensure a level playing field between companies and to improve the conditions and earnings of collectors. These objectives have been partly achieved through the AA procedure. However, the problem has been the weak binding nature of the letter of intent and the slow reaction of the procedure to irregularities. This proposal proposes that the operator in the natural product collection sector should be reliable. An operator in the field of natural products collection would mean an undertaking or other operator who invites or arranges for them to be accommodated and the means of collection deliberately to purchase from the collectors the natural products they collect. Reliability would be assessed by the Employment and Economic Development Office on the basis of a so-called obligation management survey, which the Employment and Economic Development Office would be entitled to receive. Obligation management reports are maintained by the Tax Administration's Grey Financial Clearing Unit. On request, the Employment and Economic Development Office would also issue an opinion on the reliability of the visa summoner to the Delegation when considering issuing visas for the collection of natural products. Otherwise, the proposed law would not apply to the entry or residence of a foreigner based on a foreign law. In addition, the proposal proposes a number of obligations for operators in the natural product collection sector which are essential to improve the legal status of collectors and to ensure the best possible collection earnings. These obligations are largely the same that operators already have on the basis of the letter of intent procedure. However, they would be specified in the law so that they could in practice also be monitored. A key obligation is that the operator of the natural product collection industry should ensure, in its contractual terms, that those acting on his behalf do not charge the collectors a fee for recruitment. Compliance with the obligations would be monitored by the health and safety authority to the extent that the supervision is not by law a matter for the other authority. The occupational safety and health authority, together with the Employment and Economic Development Office, would advise on the application of the law. An operator in the natural product collection sector who does not comply with the provisions of the proposed law would have to correct its activities on the basis of the occupational safety and health authority's Code of Conduct. In the worst cases, the occupational safety and health authority should report the matter to the police. This would be a significant improvement in the current situation where failure to comply with the letter of intent will lead to a possible reduction in the number of visas only in the next collection period. Mr President! There is currently no legislation on the legal status of natural product collectors. This is a clear flaw which this proposal would eliminate. The proposal has been prepared in consultation with organisations in the natural products sector, with companies in the sector and with the Thai authorities. The cooperation of the authorities in preparing the proposal has also been comprehensive. It is hoped that the law and the related amendment to the Grey Economic Clearing House Act will be in force as soon as possible, at the latest before the harvest of natural products this year 2021. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u85	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u86	Madam President! Now that we are dealing with this legislative amendment on the collection of natural products, mainly berries, I can almost feel the smell of fresh blueberry or hillasuo in my nose. I thank Minister Hatais for presenting this bill. The objectives of these amendments of the law are very welcome, as we have heard. The aim is indeed to improve the legal status of foreigners who collect mainly berries, but also other natural products, and also to create a level playing field for companies in the sector. According to the proposal, changes would support growth and export opportunities in the natural products sector. Mr President! It is good that this proposal has been prepared together with the companies in the sector. Our forests and swamps overflow in summer and autumn with berries, mushrooms and other natural products, and it is very good that these natural resources can be recovered for human consumption and other uses. This government proposal states that natural berries and other natural products are widely used in the food industry as raw materials, and therefore this amendment of the law concerns a wide range of companies, as this sector is part of a wider business field. The proposal also states that domestic raw materials are popular and that Finnish people want domestic berries and that exports of these natural products abroad are on the increase. Mr President! Natural berries are so-called superfood, which should be used more. Unfortunately, without foreign pickers, the berries of our forests and bogs would rot even more widely on swamps and forests. Most of the enterprises in the natural product collection industry covered by this Act are located in Northern Finland, Kainuu, North and South Karelia and Central Finland. There are 20 to 30 companies in our country that invite or accommodate foreign collectors every year. It is good that the rules and responsibilities in this area are now being clarified. I think it is important that we Finns also become more active in collecting the benefits of our nature. Berries and mushrooms belong to everyman’s rights and care for both the body and the mind. In addition to good exercise, a berry and sponger can be in the bosom of nature in fresh, best - measured air in the world at the edge of clean waters and clean nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u87	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u88	Madam President! It is good that the collection of natural products should be made more precise and that these responsibilities should also be clarified. I believe that this will, in particular, create a level playing field between the companies operating in the natural products sector, because it is often the case that those companies which comply with the rules and above all want to do things right suffer the most when there are a few so-called rotten egg companies in the sector, which then very easily ruin the reputation of the sector as a whole. Of course, it is important for this to clarify the legal position of foreign berry pickers in particular. In some respects, however, I did wonder how far this government proposal has thought about these practical issues. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is stated here that the imposition of a levy on services for the recruitment of natural products collectors would be prohibited. Most often these recruitment companies are the companies in the country of origin, and I do not know how far the hand of the Finnish authority reaches and how to ensure that there is no different kind of unethical trade in the country of origin. There are wild rumours about these sometimes, how it may be that people in the country of origin are pawning their property to these recruitment companies in order to get here to the North to pick berries, and then, for example, if it comes to a bad year, then in such situations, when the country of origin is returned, there will be discipline. The second thing I am thinking about is how well these health and safety authorities will be able to reach, for example, these berry pickers, who should have the opportunity, if they get mistreated, to find a route where they can get help from the authorities. How well does this information come, and who is responsible for taking this information forward in these situations? Then I pick up the legal text here: on the one hand, there is an obligation for the operator of the natural product collection industry to know that the costs charged to the collector are already known to the collector before the collector arrives in Finland and, on the other hand, that the buy-in prices are known. I understand that these costs must of course be known, but buy-in prices depend very much on the berry-year situation and the market price at any given time. It is quite impossible that several months in advance such buy-in prices could be known to these entrepreneurs. Yeah, I noticed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u89	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u90	Mr President! Over the years, I've been able to meet a lot of pickers. I've been able to meet a number of officials and ay activists who have been trying to clear up a lot of mess about our natural berry picking. I have also sat time and again in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities to find out that what has happened this year again. This presentation has been longed for and expected, and I hope it will clarify the quite varied natural berry picking situation that we currently have. We have operators who are able to organise berry picking in such a way that all parties are more or less satisfied that the partnership benefits everyone and all the new agreements with good cheer the following year. On the other hand, we have different forms of exploitation, exploitation, even trafficking in human beings, and to a large extent our system has so far been unable to tackle the fact that there is also something that is not generally considered acceptable in our society. It is also rather embarrassing that a country such as Thailand considers Finland's working conditions so uncertain that it does not want its citizens to be allowed in. That is why it has been obvious that we have a considerable need for legislation here, and now we have gone some way — but hopefully we will continue to do so. Personally, I am disappointed that it was not now chosen to treat pickers as workers, as has been done in Sweden, which would be a much better solution for our legal order in such a situation. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, these collectors are not really entrepreneurs, but they are not employees either. It is referred to as 'a kind of entrepreneur', which is not a position in our legal order and which makes it terribly difficult to put sensible content on. In practice, it leads to such an intermediate form, such a new category, in which the mechanisms designed to protect these pickers have, in a way, inspired the rights of workers, but still do not get to it properly. On the other hand, efforts have been made to support the entrepreneurial spirit, for example, by the right to change buyers, which is largely theoretical, while on the other side the caller is obliged to take measures here to safeguard the circumstances of these workers which create a cost burden that encourages the buyer to create conditions in which the picker does not easily change the buyer. Why, then, have we come to this decision? Well, I found two of those main arguments in the explanatory statement above all. The first is that it is perceived that the Swedish model has become more common in the way of sending workers from Thailand is difficult. It is difficult to monitor and also creates problematic exploitation relationships for workers. Well, the fact is that all possible options on the table and the options under the table in this situation are difficult to control. We do not have a situation in which we have natural product collectors from around the world, and money is moving in such a wide area, proper instruments to control this system. I do not think that this is a sufficient reason to exclude this option, especially since posted workers are widely used in other sectors. It is considered to be a legitimate way of organising work in Finland, and different means of controlling it have been developed for years. I would point out specifically that, since the use of posted workers has not become more widespread, Finland prefers to follow this model of a kind of entrepreneur up to now, it means that the buyers of berries feel that this is easier and cheaper to make work. The proposal does not indicate whether this is due to the fact that the State does not collect the same amount of taxes or to the fact that the pickers do not receive the same amount, but in any case the buyer benefits. The second reason for this has been that the definition of a contract of employment should be amended if the pickers are to be covered by contracts of employment. I do not agree with this. There may have to be some change in the arrangements, but that is the point at all. I think that this proposal — thank you — is moving things forward. It imprisons and formalises the current line, it imprisons and official controls, it brings sanctions, but it must not lead to this now being blocked and seen that the matter has been dealt with. We will probably have to come back to this again several times in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u91	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u92	Madam President! The Government's proposal suggests that Finland has a clear responsibility, an operator in the field of natural products collection, who invites the pickers to the country. Companies in this sector would have been obliged to act in a more uniform manner and would no longer benefit from any competitive advantage. As Mr Kontula has just said, the collectors entering the country will not enter the employment relationship. They will act as so-called entrepreneurs on their own business responsibility, but since the operator of the natural product collection industry calls a foreign collector into the country, arranges accommodation, collection equipment and the use of transport or vehicle, it is starting to seem that the natural product operator is then not the employer. That's what does everything. The collector just collects and gets a reward for it. I don't feel like he's an entrepreneur. Well, the collection of natural products usually takes place on the basis of everyman's right, and this must not cause any minor harm to the landowner. This is something we should really stick to when these operators take these foreign collectors there, so that they do not support the forest roads, nor do they support the rubbish, nor do they leave campfire sites. When you think about it, a Finnish hunter can't hunt with everyman's right without the permission of the landowner and can't block you, so there should be similar strict conditions with this, that there's nothing else to mess with or do, even if everyman's right goes there. Well, that's basically a lot of entrepreneurs. Once they're not employees, it's a pretty big business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u93	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u94	Madam President! First of all, it must be noted that the position of foreign berry pickers has improved at a rather slow pace, bearing in mind that it is now a fairly large number of people who are also vulnerable to exploitation in many ways. From a legal point of view, the situation of workers has been in good condition until now, and the law does not apply to them, but they will continue to be subject to labour law and the seasonal labour law. This law will therefore improve the situation in cases where there is no employment relationship. The letter of intent practice introduced in 2014 led to a significant improvement in their situation. At the same time, however, it quickly became clear that it did not solve the problems as a whole and the need for binding legislation has become clearer. A key practical difference with the present law will be a ban on charging collectors for recruitment-related services and orientation. We must thank the government for its very extensive and ambitious efforts to eradicate the exploitation of foreign labour. We have already received a number of legislative proposals in this respect and the plan that has been drawn up is being implemented with exceptional determination. Minister Hatainen's dedication to this has, in my view, been very exemplary. Mr President! Finnish nature produces a huge amount of tasty berries, and it is startling that as small a number of them as estimated by the Arctic Aromit ry are still being exploited. Although the situation of foreign pickers is being helped and their numbers may even increase in our forests, hopefully, we Finns will also have plenty to pick up. Wild berries also have a lot of potential with products developed from them. In this way, there could also be some potential for job creation in the sector. The industrial exploitation of berries requires raw material, and it would therefore be useful to examine in future whether one way or another it would be possible to facilitate the sale of berries collected by individual Finnish people on the basis of the right of everyman for industrial use. — This is for this kind of advice. All in all, the proposal is very welcome and we welcome it with pleasure in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u95	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u96	Madam President! Indeed, there is a serious issue at stake here, which is a rather large labour law package. Perhaps as a small relief, however, it is appropriate to note what a longtime editorial writer once said to me that usually when the editorial in July says that it is important to have all the berries picked out of the forest, it is newsless time. But it is important that these natural resources, which remain too much in our forests, are effectively picked up and that their rights, who come to Finland to do this work, are also taken care of. Indeed, in recent years there have been some of these problems that have not been adequately addressed, or that the employer and legal security have been very unclear and that legal security has not been achieved for these pickers from the labour market other than the Finnish labour market, and hopefully this will now be improved. However, the majority of entrepreneurs work well, act in accordance with Finnish law and act in accordance with their principles, as should be done. But not everyone has done so, and that is why, in my opinion, this sector is a little tarnished with its reputation in vain. The very question and the whole is how to create new business in this sector. After all, Finland’s clean nature offers plenty of opportunities for this. When this new market for health products has gradually emerged in Finland, it is great that it has these domestic products and natural berries and other collection products well taken into account. But the government's proposal is very welcome, and I wish it a good committee reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u97	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u98	Madam President! First of all, of course, I would like to thank the government and the Minister for drafting the law. It is good that this package has come before us and the proposal also proposes to amend the law on the Grey Economic Clearing House. Oversight of the grey economy in all sectors is important, and when it is still a matter of people who come to Finland for a season only, it is really, really important to control the grey economy. Fortunately, control has also been invested in by the government, and that is why I feel that there is a good future for this monitoring and for the package as a whole. However, it must be borne in mind that there must be training for the future workforce so that they already know what their rights and wages are when they come to Finland. As has been said here, it must be ensured that Finnish labour law and Finnish rules of play are also respected in the picking of berries. As Taimela pointed out, the letter of intent practice applied since 2014 has improved the situation, but the need for binding legislation has continued to be seen if it was ever to be seen. The difference between the letter of intent procedure is that this law would provide for an absolute prohibition on charging collectors for recruitment-related services and their orientation. This goes against my own sense of justice, because I have not been charged on the site for being familiar with the work. That's why it's a good show. At the end of the day, however, I think the most important thing is that this sector must also be fair, decently paid and in accordance with Finnish legislation, so that we can also ensure the security of supply in Finland and hopefully, in the future, the attractiveness of the Finnish workforce in this sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u99	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u103	At the end of this debate, Minister Haatainen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u104	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. These issues raised in this debate have long been in the air about why there is no employment status here. This law does not now define this legal status, but applies where employment is not considered to be an issue. If it is considered that this is an activity in a contract of employment, then, of course, labour law is respected. This question has also been clarified over time, and the Labour Council has considered, among other things, in its opinions that this natural berry picking of Thais has not been a matter of employment. But now what we want to do quickly before the start of the berry picking period is to have these rights and obligations defined and enshrined in the law. This also improves the position of these berry pickers clearly and also gives them a legal basis. In other words, I think that this law is important in the sense that it takes the matter forward in a positive way in terms of securing the legal status of these berry pickers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u105	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u106	Mr President! I will bring a government proposal to the House to amend the law on national records of studies and qualifications and the law on liberal education. The Law on National Registers of Studies and Qualifications would make it possible for the administrators of liberal educational institutions to store the performance data of the free-for-profit education of liberal educational work in the so-called Koski data reserve. Recording would require the student's consent. In addition, it is proposed to add to the law the obligation to record compulsory education from education and training at the National Institute of Education, which complies with the basics of the curriculum for adult immigrant integration training in accordance with the Act on the Promotion of Integration or with the recommendation of the Finnish National Board of Education on the curriculum for immigrants. It is proposed that the law on liberal education be amended to include a provision on how the scope of free-target training to be recorded in the Koski database is defined as credits and how the student's competence is assessed. Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to make non-graduate skills acquired in the liberal education sector visible in accordance with the Act on Free Cultural Work by making possible the introduction of performance data describing the skills acquired in the educational institutions of liberal education into the Koski database. Free-goal studies in liberal education provide participants with a wide range of skills needed in working life and in leisure time, which should be made easier to identify and recognise. The proposal implements the objective of extending competence-based learning throughout the education system and promotes continuous learning from the student’s needs. The reform would be of great importance in recognising and identifying skills and in developing continuous learning. About 1.6 million educational or course performances are carried out each year in liberal education and the number of students is about 900,000. The proposed storage would strengthen the role of liberal education in the education system. Mr President! The data stored in the Koski data reserve would be the student's education, the extent of the education in credits, the period of completion of the training and the assessment of the student's competence. Recording free-to-go training data would require the institution's administrator to offer the data reserve to students of education, defined the scope of education as credits, described the education on a knowledge-based basis, and assessed the student's performance in relation to the description. A description of the competence criteria for education would be done by submitting a local curriculum or curriculum to the Finnish National Board of Education eBays service. It is proposed to provide for the definition of free-to-record education as credits and the assessment of student competence in the Act on Free Cultural Work. There is no desire to propose a legal obligation to store free-for-profit training data due to the free nature of free civilised work. This also means that the proposed reform is not proposed to be carried out from the needs of the authorities, but that the reform seeks to achieve the student's interests through the making of the knowledge visible. Of course, other educational institutions and working life would benefit indirectly from the amendment of the law. The compulsory storage of education data with free objectives has also been examined from the perspective of the traditional role of liberal education, where free education is the maintenance of civilisation and studies are free and of value. It is important that it should continue to be acceptable for students to apply for free education from their own point of view and that the value of education not included in the Koski knowledge reserve as promoters of education and good life is also recognised as a result of the reform. Recording free-target education data would also require the student's consent to the school's administrators. After recording, the person could, as a general rule, manage the data in the data reserve in the Finnish National Board of Education’s Oma Opintopolku service. In the service, a person could give consent to the disclosure of information by forming a link to his or her studies in the data reserve, e.g. to the employer. If the student does not wish to disclose information to anything, the information would as a general rule only be available to the person himself, to the administrator of the educational institution that stored the information and to the Finnish National Board of Education. Other extradition clauses in the National Registers of Studies and Qualifications Act would be excluded. However, in certain circumstances, the authorities would be entitled to data in the data reserve under other legislation. Recording in compulsory education would, in turn, be compulsory for folk high schools and would not involve the student’s consent. Mr President! The Government's proposal is preceded by careful working group work involving the actors of liberal civilised work. Careful and broad-based preparation is reflected in the broad support for the objectives and implementation of the Government's proposal in the consultation. The aim is to promote the reform through personnel training organised by the Finnish National Board of Education and through state aid applications. A joint cooperation group between the Ministry of Education and Culture, the National Board of Education and the Confederations of Free Culture will monitor the reform and the implementation of the law. The proposal proposes that the laws enter into force on 1 August 2021. The aim is for the laws to enter into force at the same time as certain amendments to the law on the extension of compulsory education, which would allow the recording of the performance of the training organised at the educational institution of liberal education in the Koski database from the same date. Studies started before the laws entered into force would be subject to the provisions in force at the time the laws entered into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u107	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u108	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Saramo, for the clear presentation of the bill. This amends the law on national records of studies and qualifications and the law on liberal education. We have a great group of educational institutions in Finland: we have folk high schools, we have adult education centres, we have sports colleges, study centres and summer universities. The law on liberal education is now being amended to include the necessary provisions on how the scope of free-target training to be recorded in the data reserve will be defined as credits and how the student’s competence will be assessed. The presentation has an excellent objective to extend the idea of knowledge-based learning throughout the education system and to promote continuous learning based on the needs of the student. Learn age all — in different places, situations and stages of life it is worth recognising and recognising. The aim of the performance is to make non-diploma-oriented competence acquired in liberal education visible. This is a good step. Provision will be made for the transfer of performance data acquired in educational institutions to the Koski database. Free-goal non-graduate studies in liberal education provide students with a wide range of skills that they need in working life and in leisure and life as a whole, and now they want to raise this as if in a new way, they want to highlight skills acquired in different ways. When this is linked to the development of the entire school system, the development of a national and regional system of continuous learning services, the integration of immigrants and the promotion of employment, this will have wide implications. All in all, these proposed changes will increase the visibility of studies in liberal education and improve students' access to what they have learned in the field of liberal education. As the Minister explained, in the studies organised at folk high schools, students gain education and grow as a person and acquire the skills needed in life. These studies also involve people who otherwise do not attend very much school — there are under-represented groups who may have a lower educational background. Making knowledge visible for them is very important as they thus take good ecological steps along the path of continuous learning. Of course, the transition to this Koski information reserve will involve a great deal of investment, for example, in small folk high schools or adult education centres, and it is desirable that sufficient training and financial resources should be provided for it during the transition period. Adult education centres make up two thirds of the education and training of liberal education, where most of the studies have not been defined on a knowledge-based basis. This is a great place for learning, and this also requires support and further training. Of course, there is also a need for the training of liberal educational work which is not natural to transfer to the Koski database. Yet it is an impressive education that improves the well-being and civilisation of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u109	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u110	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation. On the basis of the principle of lifelong learning, the purpose of liberal education is to promote the diverse development of people and to organise education in support of the integrity, equality and active citizenship of society. Its share in the implementation of the enlargement of compulsory education is also particularly significant and has also been emphasised. In liberal education, students can complete free-to-use, general education studies which are not intended to complete a degree. Therefore, there are no national curricula or other regulations that should be followed nationally. However, non-graduate studies organised in liberal education provide the participant with skills that should be made easier to identify and recognise. President! The Government's proposal makes it possible to record the performance data of the free-of-occupational education with the student's permission in the data reserve provided by the National Study and Qualification Register Act. In addition, it is proposed to amend the law on liberal education to include a provision on how to define the scope of education as credits and how to assess the student's competence. President! I consider this proposal to be well-founded. The reform seeks, as we heard from the Minister's speech, to achieve the student's interests, which is always a glorious objective. It is also preceded by a very careful preparation after consultation of the operators and organisers in the sector. Of course, I also hope, like Mr Kinnuse, that training and adequate resources will be provided for the take-over of the systems at folk high schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u111	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u112	Mr President! Thank you also to the Minister for his presentation and presentation. Both the government and the parliamentary group working on the objectives of continuous learning have set ambitious targets for the development of continuous and lifelong learning to meet the needs of society, working life and individuals. The objective is to develop the identification and recognition of existing skills and to support citizens in their studies, studies, placement in the labour market and job search. Free-goal non-graduate studies in liberal education bring a wide range of skills needed in working life and leisure, and it is really good to facilitate and improve the recognition and recognition of these skills. The aim of the presentation is to make non-graduate competence acquired in liberal education visible by making possible the introduction of performance data describing the skills acquired in educational institutions in liberal education into the Koski database with the student's permission. People could look at their own credits through the My Study Path service, and the authorities would also get access to information about one place easily and reliably. The same change also pursues the second objective of extending the competence-based approach throughout the education system. Knowledge-based behaviour requires, at least in part, changes in the current activities of liberal civilization. The scope of the free-to-use training to be recorded should be defined as credits and the assessment of the student's competence should be determined. Education should also be described on a knowledge-based basis. A knowledge-based description of the education would be done by submitting a local curriculum or course plan to the Finnish National Board of Education eBays service. This is a very good objective, as long as it remains a voluntary one. In addition, a wide range of educational institutions already operating with limited resources should need additional resources for this change, including some teachers to carry out the evaluation, perhaps including additional pedagogical training. - Maybe I'll come back from there. [ The speaker moves to the podium] I have spoken to some of the players in the liberal educational work, and I would like to raise a few questions which they raised. If the evaluation is included in the course, the cost of this evaluation work should be baked there at the price of the courses. How, then, would such an evaluation possibly be replaced by an hourly teacher? In addition, new tests should be carried out on which part of the assessment would be based, unless only continuous evaluation, peer review and self-assessment are used. And is it really possible to do recording or recording and evaluation work only on a student basis, not on a course-by-course basis? They set such an example, for example, from a boat builder course, where the majority are likely to want to build a boat, but for example, some of the lowland changers in the course might benefit from new studies in the wood industry to get an evaluation of this boat construction course. If there is an additional cost to this work, how would it be divided into these course fees? I hope we don't end up there with a course fee for everyone, preferably for those who need that degree, of course. Education in liberal education is voluntary, voluntary, non-graduate education for students. Freedom is at the heart of free civilization. Action has not been directed as strongly as other forms of education from the government’s point of view. This character must still be preserved. In addition to state funding, the costs are covered by student fees, and this data storage in the Koski data reserve would not continue to be used to calculate the central government shares of the forms of liberal educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u113	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u114	Mr President! Today, we are discussing a government proposal to the Parliament to change the law on national records of study and qualifications and the law on liberal education. First of all, I will read the main content of the proposal and we will know what we are discussing. The proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on national records of studies and qualifications and the law on liberal education. The Law on National Registers of Studies and Qualifications would make it possible for the administrators of liberal educational institutions to store data on the performance of liberal education education in the national knowledge reserve under the Law on National Registers of Studies and Qualifications. Recording would require the student's consent. In addition, it is proposed to add to the law the obligation to record compulsory education from education and training at the National Institute of Education, which complies with the basics of the curriculum for adult immigrant integration training in accordance with the Act on the Promotion of Integration or with the recommendation of the Finnish National Board of Education on the curriculum for immigrants. It is proposed to amend the law on liberal education to include a provision on how to define the scope of the free-to-use training to be recorded in the data reserve as credits and how to assess the student's competence. Minister Saramo here has presented this law and this proposal more broadly, and very well explained why this is needed. I believe that this is very necessary and worthy of support. We in the Committee on Culture have already launched a debate on this and we can say together that this is very much to be welcomed. It is precisely this that supports the transition to the so-called competence-based approach, which we in Finland have wanted to promote and develop. We have had this society quite a long way to go, and we have always looked at the degree when we should at the same time think about what this person is capable of. Fortunately, this knowledge-based approach has recently brought to the heart of the debate exactly what we want to promote in Finland: knowledge and civilisation. Of course, there are areas where qualifications are well defined — for example, in the social and health sector there are directives that define what the degree should be — but when a person receives a degree, of course, it is assumed that he is also competent. Well, in any case, liberal education is a sector where not so much qualifications are carried out but parts of qualifications are carried out but, above all, knowledge is increased. As Mr Hopsu also referred to, and Minister Saramo also referred to, this knowledge-based approach and this particular registration, including the identification and recognition of skills. The fact that we have these particular credits in the registers makes it easier for us to identify skills. First, of course, you have to evaluate them correctly and have objectives in relation to them, but it will make it easier for you to identify your skills. Then an entirely different matter is recognition, and it is much more difficult. When you consider that we make these personal study plans and have studied that knowledge in different places, then you should look at them and have a common understanding that this knowledge is also recognised. Just to say, as a former adult education director, that it is not always so easy when parts of the degree are carried out in different courses that they would be genuinely recognised. But once again, this registration will make it easier to identify it, and that is hopefully a short way to recognise it. They're both important. Mr President! We have really started a debate on this in the Committee on Culture. There is a great consensus on this, and the officials of the Ministry of Education and Culture have also asked us whether there is a need for some clarifications, but then later on. — Thank you for this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u115	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u116	Madam President! I agree with what colleagues have said that this bill is certainly necessary in itself, and it is important that this national law on the register of studies and qualifications and the law on liberal education should be amended so as to enable students' knowledge to be stored in the data reserve. This draft law also sets out in particular the basics of the curriculum relating to the integration training of immigrants and the curriculum recommendations related to the training of immigrants. I myself have been a member of the board of the Education Institute for Liberal Education, where the emphasis has been placed on preparing immigrants for high school education as well as on the possibility of completing the syllabuse of basic education. I consider these to be very important issues on the educational front, but also on the social side, in the sense that the integration of people into society is extremely important, and thus also the provision of the possibility that in Finnish society there is the basis for the effort – to have received a Finnish comprehensive school diploma or to have the opportunity to study in upper secondary schools – and it supports the integration of people into Finnish society. I would argue that the role of liberal education is perhaps still a little undervalued in society at the moment. Many folk high schools around Finland do truly valuable work. Many times these study modules are such that they hit the joint stages of human life. There is an opportunity to develop people who, for example, are still looking for their own area of the future, perhaps take a so-called intermediate year or acquire additional knowledge or skills in order to direct them to a sector of vocational education and training. And, of course, some of these folk high schools also provide vocational training. Now that this increase in compulsory schooling is ahead, I hope and believe that in this situation the educational institutions of liberal education will also have to be the kind of person who will be able to offer a second degree to those young people who, for example, may necessarily have to have a vocational institution or another secondary school, for example, not the way in which a young person who is suffering from various learning difficulties or similars could do so in second instance. I believe that the role and value of this liberal civilised work will only increase in our future years.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u117	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u118	Mr President! In this debate on referrals, the law on the national register of studies and qualifications is actually about bringing another element, that is, a new form of education, this time the studies of liberal education, into the national register of degrees in Koski. This work was already started during the last term of government, and it is absolutely desirable to continue to do so in other forms of study. As the Minister said in his presentation, there are few reasons to oppose this and, in fact, what we need more in this society is that we have one place where both students and potential future employers can see what kind of studies have been carried out, what kind of skills a person has. Perhaps that is the idea of further development — when much has been said about continuous learning, lifelong learning and that parliamentary work — I think that we still have a rather academic mindset in Finland, and that is, of course, because we think that the degree brings, as it were, the skills needed in certain professions or at least in order to be able to qualify for a profession. However, today's working life is increasingly diverse and changing and, in fact, life-long learning continues there too. I think that 60 percent of those who work are trained in some way, carry out some further training every year. I do not know how the corona period has changed this, but it shows that it is also important in working life to keep your own know-how up to date, and much of it is already being done. What we lack, however, is such as a degree-based education and a little like a course-based education in the middle of identifying and recognising studies as a competence. This could be seen as a model: For example, there are such models abroad. In England, for example, it is known as ‘graduatedipoma’, where a number of know-howsetsarepacked,can be called,by-substances or some kind of certificate of competence. I believe that the integration of liberal education into the Koski Diploma Register is also a step in the direction of increasing recognition and recognition of skills acquired in a slightly different way as part of the individual's competence and, on the other hand, of opportunities for employment. Mr President! Indeed, the chairman of the committee, Mr Risikko, has already said that we have got off to a good start on the matter in committee, but then on those conclusions in the actual feedback debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u119	Congressman Honkone's gone. — We have, in fact, run out of time for this, but I will give the Minister a brief closing statement. - Minister Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your very good contributions. There were also very good questions. I shall try briefly on that question of costs. Since this is, in principle, a voluntary activity, which is why there is no need to finance such a statutory task, in practice if it is estimated that there will still be additional costs and that it cannot be carried out with the rest of it, this assessment will then have to be made on the State's share of the year 2024, since unit prices 2024 are calculated on the basis of the average national operating costs of this year. But in advance it is terribly difficult to estimate the cost of this. System costs should not be very high. For example, this Koski database is already in use in more than one third of folk high schools, and it can be estimated that the costs will be very moderate. And since this is a voluntary activity, of course, the desire for evaluation and other things must be the student's own, but it is good to come back to these with time in the further processing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u121	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u122	Madam President! This bill relates to the municipal test of employment promotion, which entrusts certain tasks of government employment and economic development offices to the selected municipalities for a limited period of time. The aim here is to speed up and streamline the handling of unemployment security issues for unemployed jobseekers who are customers of the municipality of the trial area. The smoothing-up of bureaucracy in general is always to be welcomed. It is also to be welcomed that we want to take account of the customer's personal circumstances, because they can be the key factors in employment. During the municipal trial, the customer could be transferred to a customer of another trial board or back to the Employment and Economic Development Office, for example, in order to safeguard the customer’s linguistic rights, to avoid inappropriate customer relationships or for a legitimate reason related to the customer’s safety. The target of the experiment are hard-to-work customer groups. If we think about our life after the corona and over the corona, it is important that all those who are able to nail the work be caught aside, and that is why this experiment is also significant.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u123	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u124	Mr President! Here, the chairmen of the parliamentary parties were recently asked how to deal with the transfer of these employment measures to the municipalities. After all, it was very unanimous, with the exception of a few chairmen who did not actually object but did not yet have a position on the issue, everyone was of the opinion that this experiment of local government employment, which is now an experiment, should certainly be regarded as a guideline for municipalities to play an increasingly important role in employment in the future. In view of the fact that, in the municipality of the future, if, at some point, these social services are transferred to the welfare area, for example, this responsibility for education is even greater, which would seem to make more sense — since so often there is also a different type of tailor-made training and so forth — than the fact that there is also responsibility for these employment and education issues there. Even when it comes to the most difficult people to work, when certainly the different social services are important, these too can certainly be viewed at local level in the best possible way. I believe that there is also the best knowledge at local level of local business life or, for example, of different organisations and similar organisations that can support and assist employment. This bill is now seeking changes to a few of those who may have caused additional bureaucracy or problems in this experiment in the local government of employment in the municipalities where this is used. Thus, among other things, decisions and appeals concerning discretionary expenses are clarified here, i.e. it is stated that there would be no right to appeal against this refusal based on the discretion of the Authority and that the rest of the decision would be appealed to the Board of Appeal for Social Security and the Insurance Law. It is certainly important that these routes come now clearly defined. On the other hand, I drew attention to the fact that information rights and access rights have also been raised here, and I recall that even when these municipal experiments were started, quite a number of representatives in this Chamber are wondering whether it is now ensured that the municipalities have sufficient information about these employed persons, so that there is no such siloming of administrative sectors and that we do not really know in the municipalities who are in need of their employment services and that we receive up-to-date information in that respect. And, of course, this is important, as has also been said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this should then take into account the issues relating to the whole of the fundamental order of law as regards the protection of personal data and the like. Above all, however, this is intended to serve these hard-to-work people, and in that sense it is important that local authorities have up-to-date information on their situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u125	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u126	Mr President! I was very pleased when I heard about this supplement package for the municipal experiment and its arrival in Parliament. It is only a good thing that we are able to support people's freedom of choice in such a way that the unemployed jobseekers who are undergoing a municipal experiment are also able to exchange those who provide them with employment services, including in non-language situations, which is already in the original bill. Such a situation may be, for example, a care obligation that requires a person to spend long periods of time in another place, for example, caring for his sick parent. This means that we guarantee that he will also be able to obtain employment services when he cannot, for good reason, reside there in his own municipality of residence, either through another experimental body or through the Employment and Economic Development Office, depending on what he has now achieved. It is also a question of equality. After all, we now have people who are in the municipal experiment and then there are unemployed job seekers who are not in it, and it is a funny situation that we have full freedom of choice for the latter but a very rigid system for the first, and there is a little flexibility for this too. The transfer of unemployment security tasks to the municipalities, as far as it is concerned, is also a good reform, to a greater extent than originally intended, because it is hoped that it will at least contribute to ensuring that decisions on unemployment security are not overstretched and the deadlines are not prolonged, which is an extremely important issue for curbing the red tape. At present, more and more researchers are of the opinion that it is very likely that the bureaucratic friction is significant — perhaps even more significant than the economic traps — the threshold for people not to dare to accept short-term jobs, which is the biggest step between full unemployment and then transition to work. We must do everything we can to lower this threshold. I do not dare to take a position at this stage on the non-complaint of discretionary expenses. In our system, the bans on appeals are usually exceptional solutions, and that is something we must look at together in committee even more closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u127	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u128	Madam President! Thus, some of the tasks of government employment and economic activities would be transferred to municipalities for the duration of the experiment. The transfer of tasks to municipalities is supported by the good knowledge of municipal employment services and the work and other opportunities available. In the smallest regions, it is often possible to provide a more individualised and personalised service. Of course, the aim is also to know whether the results of employment management will improve because municipalities, as multidisciplinary authorities, will have access to the services of many different sectors when organising and producing employment services. In addition, the experiment seeks information on the costs and service paths of services that are more difficult to employ. President! I believe that, in the final analysis, the aim is also, of course, to increase the employment rate, in particular to promote employment among those in a weak labour market position and to curb the overall cost of unemployment to public finances. The bill also responds to the statements adopted by Parliament in connection with the adoption of the Act on Local Government Experiments in Employment. In addition, a number of other changes have emerged during and after the parliamentary procedure and are now being addressed. President! The aim of the proposal is, among other things, to promote the swift and smooth handling of unemployment security issues by an unemployed job seeker, which is a valuable objective, as well as, of course, to correct the regulation of access rights to customer information systems and to clarify the appeal against decisions on discretionary expenses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u129	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u130	Madam President! After all, this test of local government to promote employment began just over a month ago, and before that we have had a few previous experiments of local government employment. After all, these experiments are usually for learning and developing as we move forward. Well, it seems that they were not enough to learn from this experiment in municipalities to promote employment when there were small mistakes of this kind which are now being corrected. This trial of municipalities, which is now taking place, was brought to Parliament in quite a hurry. A lot of it had been changed from the previous one and left unheard of in order to know what bugs were left behind. Well, here we are. Firstly, the committee had to correct the government's proposal quite a bit, there were a few statements, and now we are here that this package of corrections has come to Parliament. It is good that this has come quickly, it is a great achievement, but if the minister in question were there, I would ask how the staff from the TE Centres moved to this municipal experiment. Has it been painless and has it gone smoothly, or has there been a problem? And secondly: Now that this bill was brought into this Parliament really quickly, when will there be government proposals that will then create jobs and employment? What is good about updating the care of the unemployed, but when are we going to get those jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u131	Congressman Purra gone. — Mr Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u132	Madam President! As we have already heard in this Chamber debate, the government is bringing employment services closer to the customers. This is a very good and worthy reform, which is being pursued decisively in committee too, I dare to think about. It is clear that job seekers and employers need more and more individual and cross-cutting services, and investing in this will also genuinely contribute to employment. Promoting employment is an issue in which the state and the municipalities have a strong common interest — and I dare to think that that interest is also in this Chamber, this therefore does not experience any such opposition and government axes. After all, the municipal trials started in early March and almost 230,000 customers of the TE Offices became customers of the municipal trials. In municipal trials, the full potential of cooperation between the state and municipalities is made available when the pilot law allows the sharing of customer information. I believe that the way in which the government is taking forward this reform of employment services is well thought out. The experiments have been built in such a way that they provide maximum information on the basis of future policies. A package of clarifications will now be introduced to facilitate the smooth handling of unemployment security issues and allow better consideration to be given to changes in the customer's circumstances, i.e. to live in time. Madam President! The proposed changes contribute to the success of the experiments and are justified. They also feature a whole reform-cutting theme that adapts governance to meet people's individual needs. At the same time, working in employment services will be made as smooth as possible. A very good draft law, and I hope it will be dealt with quickly here in committee and later in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u133	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u134	Mr President! The Act on municipal employment trials was previously in Parliament, and some of the changes to this so-called correction package were proposed by the committee, as it were by a statement, and then some of these other changes to the Act on Local Government Experiments. These other needs for change include, for example, the lack of this municipal trial law to ensure that the municipality also manages these other services: now that these long-term unemployed and more in employment become customers of the municipal employment services, other employment-supporting services will also be taken care of. It is, of course, a good thing that it is explicitly mentioned in this law, even though it is, of course, in the interests of the municipality to do so, so that the person's chances of employment are as good as possible. I see nothing particularly critical of this proposal as such. I would just like to point out that now that we are talking about the long-term unemployed and those who are hard to work, especially in the field of municipal experimentation, this situation of interest rates has changed quite a bit. For example, in Vantaa, where the airport area indirectly employs up to 100 000 people and directly, several tens of thousands of people, including the whole logistics sector, the situation is that there are already long-term unemployed people who have practically been employed in the same employer or similar sector and who have the opportunity to work with the training background and work history for some other jobs at a time when work is still less available, however, is extremely weak. There are also a large number of people with reasonably high levels of education, but it is oriented towards this sector of air transport or logistics, and there are currently few new jobs available in this sector, at least in this area. That is why we in Vantaa have also done quite a lot of customization in order to provide different kinds of education, complementary or, as it were, completely career-altering training, and have tried to help these people, who also live as residents. As I think the previous speaker, the representative Taimela mentions, as is the case here, that the interests of both the state and the municipalities are entirely united. Of course, we want to see as many people as possible of working age and working capacity at work, and that is why it is very important that local authorities should now also be informed of the unemployed who only need these services previously provided by the Employment and Economic Development Centre or, more generally, employment-friendly services, either training or other possible services that will improve the situation and employment prospects of the person.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u135	Congressman Honkone's gone. — Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u136	Madam President! As far as this bill is concerned, this can be warmly supported. It is a question of making a few precise adjustments to these municipal trials, which, on the one hand, improve the situation of jobseekers in certain individual situations, particularly where linguistic rights do not exist or there are other grounds. It is, in itself, something to be welcomed, as is the important addition that joint municipal boards can now also organise these services, because these rights of information also come to the employees of joint municipal boards — which was quite a childhood — that it intervened in the previous government proposal. This paragraph was also mentioned in the opposition to the Assembly, and it is great that it is now being resolved in this context. As far as these municipal experiments are concerned or, in fact, the fact that the most difficult employment-related issues will be dealt with in municipalities in the future, I have been following this for a long time, and at least from the point of view of such a medium-sized municipality, I must say that this change is good and I warmly support the move to the municipalities. I think there was Mr Kivisaari here when he mentioned that municipalities are closer to job seekers, they also know better local conditions and know, for example, what kind of continuing training is needed to achieve a job, and so on. And I would like to point out that this role of municipalities is, in my opinion, suitable for these people with the most difficult jobs, i.e. the long-term unemployed, young people with no work experience or, for example, those with a migrant background whose language skills — Finnish or Swedish — are not at their full level, i.e., in a way, for those with normal employment through traditional TE services is not quite as easy as for some others. This is an important issue. Mr President! However, I would like to point out one thing that I cannot help but marvel at here, and that is that, as this change is now moving in the right direction, the responsibility of the municipalities will be increased and the municipalities will take care of and the services will come close — as Mr Taimela said, bringing the services close to the customers — so the social reform will take exactly the opposite direction. In other words, if this social welfare reform takes place — and I personally hope it will not — it will take these social services and health care services from that municipality to the province and will probably cause friction, as we in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities already know at the moment, that this is likely to happen, because many of those who are hard-to-work are these customers of social services, not all of them, but many are. Moreover, it is of course very important that the health care of the unemployed is taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u137	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u138	Mr President! I have already commented on the government proposal. I would like to comment on the debate here. The role of municipalities as a provider of employment services is a political mantra, which everyone should praise and praise with very similar phrases from year to year, even from decade to decade, without any scientific evidence to support it. We also do not have any scientific evidence that municipalities are not better than those providing employment services, but not in the other direction either. In my opinion, the fact that it has gained such a position in political discord, which cannot be questioned, is intellectual dishonesty. Because usually in box games, when you make organisational changes in one direction or another, you get something and you lose something and then you get bored and you do another box game. The current municipal experiment will not significantly increase our knowledge of whether municipalities are better producers of these services or not. First of all, because there is no proper research apparat yet on this third trial, and secondly because there is now a process of service restructuring, the guidelines of which will probably soon be heard, and that the social reform which is changing the field of play so radically that, if some of the results come from this initial stage, they will be of no use in two years' time. Now, what could be saved here and what should be done with this municipal experiment would be to consider how the last six months will be used, when we will have a new war at the same time and the last months of this municipal experiment, and then perhaps we could collect information that would also be useful for the future. Yes, such an outpouring is now being made here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u139	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u140	Madam President! This law has already been widely discussed here, but I would like to draw attention to the same issue as Mr Satonen, in other words, this flow of information and information security. When you were a trusted man, you often encountered the problem that GDPR came up against from an angle if from another, and so it was also quite difficult to help at times. And it is good that the question has now also been raised as to how services can be smooth and also information systems so that they can function in their own time. The draft law would specify the provisions on access to customer information systems in order to improve the services of personal customers, and an official of the Joint Municipal Authority in the pilot area could obtain access rights to the Career Client Information System under conditions similar to those of the official. It's a good thing we don't have two-story people. In addition, access to the customer register of the cross-sectoral joint service (TYPPI) could also be granted to a non-official and also to a staff member of a joint municipal authority who is responsible for the tasks referred to in the Multisectoral Joint Service Act (TYP). Of course, there must also be clear rules and criteria for how this is to be done, and that is what has been said, because it is important to pass the right information between the right people, so that it is precisely this extra bureaucracy and the avoidance of its bureaucracy that will be possible in the future. Employment cannot be dependent on poor services, because information jams in the wrong places. However, there is a need to take good care of personal data, and that is why the preparation of this point must also be particularly careful.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u141	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u142	Mr President! I was meant to take part in this debate from the beginning, but it came as a surprise, and I only got involved at this point. Unfortunately, I do not know what has been said here, but the good speech by Mr Kontula is something from which to start. As has been mentioned many times in connection with the examination of municipal trials, this lameness or inadequacy of the pilot scheme and, above all, the fact that even major experiments do not ultimately provide us with the kind of information that we would have significant benefits in the design of employment policy is a major problem here. As we know, even though there is no good arrangement for these previous municipal trial rounds 2012-2015 and 2017-2018 which could lead to proper conclusions, it is known that they had no discernible effects on employment, which is perhaps the steak of this issue. In fact, this proposal itself brings minor additions, and I believe these are due to the fact that the actual proposal came to Parliament in its own right and the committee had to make these changes and intervene, and these will now come before us. What is problematic is that once again the wheel has been re-invented instead of actually learning from the mistakes made and wondering how to build a trial setting to actually benefit from it. The point is that, during activation, of course, unemployed job seekers do not appear as unemployed in the statistics, but if we want to look a little wider than at the level of statistics, then we should also be interested in other things. Here I heard that there was talk of this being a good thing common to the municipalities and the state. In my opinion, this is precisely a measure in which the municipalities have a certain interest to benefit as much as possible, but some of the costs are borne, in this case by the State. In fact, during this experiment, municipalities have passed on a great deal of the cost of long-term unemployment to the State, and when unemployment is cut off by these active measures and municipalities are exempt from fines, unfortunately this does not mean that unemployment will not continue after activation. On this point, we have also heard from a large number of municipalities in committee in due course that the municipalities are very satisfied with this — of course, because they are able to shift costs elsewhere — but if we are thinking of the whole national employment policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u143	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u144	Mr President! I must say that I cannot help but marvel at what the chairman of the committee, Mr Kontula, and also Mr Purra, have said. The experience I have in this matter over the past 20 years is that, if you look at it from the point of view of my municipality, Sastamala — and the situation is similar in almost all the towns around Finland, even in some larger cities — employment management was at its best when there was an employment office. That was at the time when the current President was the Minister for Labour. At that time it was the best individual service for the unemployed and the most accomplished. And now, if it is claimed that there is no study that this is the case, then it may be that there is no study, but if you look at the unemployment rate, for example, it is some kind of study, and how long long long long long-term unemployment has been going on is some kind of research. In other words, I say that, at least for these types of regions, this was a very important issue. Then, when this provision of employment care was transferred to the provincial level, the result was that everywhere else in Pirkanmaa — perhaps not in Tampere, but everywhere else — the service deteriorated and long-term unemployment also went on to lengthen, and a lot was lost in that regard. That's where the need for the municipalities to get in on this job came from. It should be borne in mind that municipalities have also invested a considerable amount of their own money in this employment management. And this also for Purra: when Purra talked about these box games, this box does have two different payers, but it has two payers, precisely because the municipalities felt that the employment management had become so weak that they had to do something about it and were willing to do something about it. And most of all its own money has been put into it by representative Kontula's former municipality of residence in Tampere, where, under the leadership of the Mayor of Tampere, almost EUR 10 million has been put into this – if my information is more or less correct – and yet it has been the will of the Tampere decision-makers themselves, not the will of anyone else to put and invest in it. As far as the results are concerned, if we take a little international comparison, the municipalities will take care of employment in Denmark most effectively — with the greatest resources but also with the most efficiency. We do have data for 20 years on Denmark's unemployment rate compared to Finland's unemployment rate, and it cannot be explained simply by the fact that distances are lower. I myself have visited that system twice, and I am a committed supporter of it. The fact that the reasons why a person is not employed are being tackled immediately is actually being achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u145	Now I have the unfortunate task of interrupting this debate, because the time allocated to it at this stage has come to an end. The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the order of business have been closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-06-ps-34.u146	Then we will resume the debate on item 7 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Purra gone.
