ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 34/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion. Chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u2	Mr President! The Committee on Finance dealt quickly with the government's proposal. It is proposed that the in vitro diagnostic medical devices used for the self-testing of covid-19 disease should be exempt from the tax. The exemption would apply both to domestic sales and to foreign purchases. The exemption from the sale would entail the right to deduct the tax included in the acquisition. The law is meant to come into force from the beginning of the year and last all next year. On the basis of the reasons for the government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Finance considers that this proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the proposal without amendment. The committee considers it important that the proposal is moving forward quickly and that the proposed changes come into force from the beginning of January. It is also important that the proposed reduction in tax should be fully passed on to consumer prices in order to fully meet the objectives of the proposal. We welcome the fact that the Minister of Finance has started negotiations with central trade organisations and also with pharmacies in order to ensure that this is truly achieved, that they are fully reflected in consumer prices and that these home tests are made available as widely and cheaply as possible. The committee draws attention to further preparation. It is important that other VAT exemptions, which can be considered appropriate in the fight against covid-19, be assessed in the future, as permitted by European Union law. In the Committee's view, the VAT exemption for covid-19 materials should be clarified without delay so that it will also apply to private service providers in the future. The assessment shall also take into account the neutrality of competition in the liberalisation of value added tax. A study has been carried out on this subject in connection with previous tax changes, but now, even in view of the situation in Europe as a whole, it is appropriate to find out how other countries have acted and whether there is anything to be done in this country as well. Due to the late date of submission of the proposal, its impact on the VAT revenue estimate could not be taken into account in the draft budget for 22 years. With regard to the uncertainties associated with the assessment of revenue and the total VAT revenue, the Committee considers that changes in the estimates of revenue can be made at a later stage, if necessary, in the context of the amending budget procedure. In our proposal for a decision, Parliament accepts without amendment the bill contained in the government proposal HE 233.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u3	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u4	Mr President! It is very good that the Committee on Budgets quickly completed the report on this matter. This is an important issue because we need all the means at the moment to overcome the corona. So we are talking about VAT-free home tests for next year. An estimate of its tax impact of about 3 million is, of course, a little uncertain — as the President said — but it will certainly come back to our society many times more when we are able to open up society for our part, especially by making it easier for close relatives and others to meet, for example, so to speak, that it is not up to the price of the test. Hopefully, this test will extend to consumers as widely as possible and will also be used in schools and workplaces so that we can ensure safety. Indeed, this is a reduction in the consumer price, but other reductions in VAT on interest rate protection, as the report says, must be competitive, i.e. they would be for both public and private operators, and in this study, how private operators will continue to get this, and in the past, there will also be comparisons abroad. It is very important that the various operators are on the same track, so to speak, with regard to this practice of VAT.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u5	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u6	Mr President! I too think it is very important, and I am similarly pleased that we have dealt with this very quickly in our committee and specifically so that we move forward quickly with a good consensus on the measures that are necessary. I would also like to emphasise our record that every effort must be made to ensure that this important issue now goes to the prices of these products. It is an absolutely essential question, because this is precisely about making these accessible to all citizens. That is why it is important, as Mr Koskinen said, that these negotiations are being held here in the commercial sector and towards pharmacies. This is a collective exercise, and I hope that everyone will be involved, including this chain, so that it works in such a way that the consumer is specifically given this benefit. Similarly, we must, of course, ensure that there is sufficient availability of these tests at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u7	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u8	Madam President! I share the thanks of the previous speakers in the Committee on Finance for the good cooperation and the spirit of Christmas in which this report was made quickly in committee. In particular, I am pleased not only that the committee has raised this point, but that it is now important that this tax reduction should be fully passed on to consumers, so that the objectives of the proposal can be met, but also that we have reached agreement on this point, in which the possibility for private operators of this VAT reduction should now be clearly pampered on the part of the government. In the opposition, of course, we are wondering whether there is any need for any objection to taking this issue forward, but I think that this was now a good wording. I hope and believe that it is now really important to assess why many other Member States of the European Union have been able to extend this VAT exemption to the private side and why we in Finland have not been able to do so now with these proposals, which has been discussed in the House before. In this respect, I hope that now that we will probably have the following proposals in January on protective equipment and others, this unanimous committee entry will then be taken seriously and will be followed up accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u9	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u10	Madam President! In the end, it is the citizens' own responsible action that will win the Koronapandem, and home testing is an excellent tool for the people's own interest-rate system. It is therefore important that high costs do not become an obstacle to safe Christmas visits, for example. At the same time, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, there is a great deal of concern at the moment that it is difficult to get into vaccinations, especially that third vaccination. There are several weeks' queues, while it would now be very important to combat this highly contagious omicronvariant. These walk-in vaccinations may be in line for several hours, and it is rather pathetic to watch elderly people waiting in line with a walking stick for hours to get vaccinated, so we should be putting our efforts into enough labour to get these vaccinations and also to get these vaccinations carried forward during these holidays. This testing is a very good thing, and it must be encouraged by the public that, before that Christmas visit takes place, it will be tested so that we do not have these infections spreading and that we can also ensure that our health care will continue to work and in the coming weeks. Of course, these messages have been worrying that it is precisely the adequacy of intensive care that is at stake. Yesterday, 63 intensive care corona patients were registered, and this could no longer be allowed to go up, so all these measures are needed. Thank you to the committee for bringing this through quickly and unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u11	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u12	Mr President! Now, the price of the home test has already been reduced to around EUR 5 by the big retailers, and now that this VAT deduction comes, less than EUR 4 will be the price of the home test, and this is becoming a reasonable price. It will certainly encourage citizens to buy these home tests at home and to voluntarily and preventively and, so to speak, to test themselves, especially if there are flu symptoms. This is a good thing, and it is precisely this type of proposal, which voluntarily encourages this concern for health safety, that is good. Of course, the concern is that there are plenty of these tests. The retailers have already indicated that there may be a shortage of this stuff, but I believe that the chains will be able to get home tests. For my part, I would also like to thank you for this proposal, and I am glad that the Committee on Finance has been able to get this proposal here in the Chamber quickly and thus from the beginning of next year, that is to say 1.1. from then on for a year this tax exemption will come. Surely, as has been done in this debate, other protective instruments and their tax rates must be considered: would they have an incentive effect on the fact that at least money is not caught, that health security cannot work in this society, and hence also be more free to act? The situation is difficult at the moment, but let us do everything we can to make this better. Of course, the most important thing is that those vaccines are given to people as quickly as possible and that third vaccine is given to as many people as possible quickly. Of course, for my part, I also want to strongly encourage people to take the first vaccines if they have not yet taken them. Actually, there is no other way to get over this pandemic than these vaccines. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u13	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u14	Madam President! Indeed, the opposition must also be commended to the government for this swift and swift action and, of course, also to the committee for bringing this matter to an end quickly and unanimously. We certainly support this good proposal, even at the risk of trade shooting itself in the foot and taking advantage of it in its greed, but, frankly, I do not believe it, because I am sure it will be a reputational disadvantage if we go up these prices in the sense of making a few ten cents of a test for ourselves. My guess is, I can even believe that the shops are making this into a throw-in product, which means that the price of this may be knocked down even at best below what has been paid for it, because surely the shops and everyone will realize that if this good solution can get us to test themselves, then this is the way that we actually have a big chance of getting some kind of grip on this disease. As has been noted, the corona pass has caused the distortion that people assume too much of it and people move too much in big crowds and so on, but in my opinion, at least we can do quite well to beat this disease so that it does not spread, precisely because when it really costs only a few euros, that test will be easily taken. This same price will also help you to take it at events or restaurants already so that the customer himself will pay for it when the price is not so high. Yesterday's debate was discussed, someone mentioned that 3 million would be the cost of this, but I cannot believe that it could be 3 million already because these are so much cheaper than taking a normal test, and that is why normal tests will be reduced quite a lot. I know people who have gone to the test ten times just because they've had to go for their job as soon as they've started to feel that way. Their testing would certainly have fallen into the fact that only a couple of times would have been done and the rest would have been done with this so-called rapid test. So I would argue that, in any case, even these tests themselves will be used back, let alone that our society will run and thus our tax revenues will remain at least normal. — Thank you for this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u17	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u18	Mr President! Indeed, it is a proposal to calculate the value added tax on rapid tests at zero. The motion is very welcome, and thank the Ministry of Finance and the Minister for Finance for bringing it quickly to Parliament, and also thank the Committee on Finance, where I myself sit, for bringing this up quickly. Rapid tests are an excellent addition to epidemic management, and when they are done carefully, there is also a reasonably reliable result available. However, I personally would like to stress that they are, in particular, an additional contribution to the management of the epidemic, and certainly should not be a substitute for taking vaccines, for example, because two doses of vaccine and three doses of vaccine for those who have gone on for a longer period of time still provide excellent protection against a serious form of disease, including in the event of the spread of the omicrotransformation. I therefore encourage everyone to take the first and second vaccine as soon as you can and can, because it is the most effective way of keeping society open. As far as access to the PCR test is concerned and their need is concerned, this rapid test cannot fully replace the PCR test in that respect either. This is the case, for example, that an isolation decision or a quarantine decision can only be taken on the basis of whether the infection has been or has been exposed and is verified by laboratory tests. Mr President! However, I would encourage the government to consider these means today to take account of the fact that in municipalities, especially in cities where there are many people now and they are forced to meet each other, even if they try to avoid contacts, capacity is in no way enough for everything. There is something we need to give up on, either on tracing, testing or vaccinating, and this last one cannot be. We must now harness all possible sources of vaccination, including pharmacies, which would be very important now to involve them in the vaccination process. There would be a workforce with skills even after quick training to take part in vaccinations without being away from elsewhere. There is a great deal of need for all workers in health care at the moment, and when Omicron transformation is known to spread very easily, there is a risk that if people close to them get sick, we will suffer from the capacity of health care because of their illness and nearby illnesses. I encourage you to take the vaccines.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u19	Congressman Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u20	Mr President! All means are needed to combat the pandemic, and that is why this proposal is good, well-founded. I would like to thank the Tax Section and also the Minister for the fact that the proposal is here and is coming into use. The message has come from different quarters that there is a shortage of these rapid tests in pharmacies and shops. Let us hope that this availability can also be met. I hope that it has also been explained and informed in advance that this need will probably be increasing now that Parliament will also provide a tax relief for rapid tests. Of course, like all my fellow Members, I hope that vaccinations will progress, i.e. to increase the vaccination coverage and speed up the third round of vaccines — although worrying about the timetables that have now been presented for the third vaccination. It also appears that there is no equal status within the country with regard to the rate of vaccination. I hope that increased attention will be paid to this, because new information on omicron as a virus variant is that this third round of vaccines is needed in order to strengthen protection. I wish everyone a safe and relaxing and peaceful Christmas season. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u21	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u22	Mr President! I too would like to thank the government for this proposal. The fact that VAT is now being abolished at home certainly makes it quite accessible to many people. About EUR 4 will become the price after this change from the beginning of the year. Surely many may have been hindered by the price of these home tests, that in practice, for example, they could have been done on a daily basis. For example, we Members of Parliament have each received a sufficient number of tests, so that every day we have been able to do so, even though many of us are vaccinated, just in case, so that we do not pose a risk by our own possible infection to others. It has already been said here that the VAT revenue that is missing is EUR 3 million, and of course it is also money, but in this situation I consider it a very small matter compared to the benefits of this. I believe that we need all the measures to prevent the spread of this pandemic, and I really hope that the government will now take all those measures to get this third vaccination to people as soon as possible. The introduction of occupational health care, the introduction of pharmacies to carry out these vaccinations and tests, both of them. For the first time, in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, yesterday we adopted a position on vaccinations that the capacity of pharmacies to carry out vaccination activities should also be clarified and introduced. Mr President! We are still facing a very serious pandemic situation and in that sense all the means are needed. I encourage everyone to take vaccination, but also if there are different opportunities in relation to Christmas and New Year’s celebrations, carry out these tests, because it will then often prevent very serious consequences, especially for older people in the family circle and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u23	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u24	Madam President! In fact, there is a temporary amendment to the VAT Act which exempts the so-called self-interest tests. This was a welcome bill, and it was excellent that we were able to handle this proposal smoothly in the Committee on Budgets, as things are going there. I would like to thank the excellent chairman of the committee for his cooperation and, in particular, for the spirit of Christmas which we have received on a matter in which the opposition has often objected, namely the issue of neutrality, that in Finland private and public health care is dealt with differently. Here I would like to say, Mr President, that the reduced rate has been applied by a number of European countries, including Belgium, France, Greece and Portugal, in other words, these many countries do not distinguish between private and public service providers, and there is no such tax limit. It is very important that this issue should now be clarified. We have a large number of private service providers that offer, for example, absolutely necessary home care for the elderly. When we meet here in January, would it be possible to get a legal proposal to correct this? At least I'm offering it the support of the Coalition Party. So it was very good that, after a long time of opposition work, this was taken here. Then I say, President, that vaccination is the only way to break this epidemic. We need to speed up the vaccination rate, and here I am appealing to the government parties. Today, the government is negotiating to include occupational health care. Minister Kiuru has promised it, but we have heard that no legislative changes have been made, no measures have been taken by the kingdom, and now we are considering how it can be implemented legally in those areas. I hope that the government will take action here to involve occupational health care. And I appeal to the pharmacies to be included. In the Nordic countries, for example, there are 100,000 people vaccinated in pharmacies a week, and that would be an asset that would not be out of healthcare. Let's bring the pharmacies. It is the closest health care point for many, and it has a lot of expertise. This is particularly important to protect health and spirit, but it is also important to maintain the carrying capacity of health care. I am really worried about how the health care staff are doing and I wish them strength. I hope the government will take action to actually mobilise all the resources. Finally, I wish the President and the whole House a very good Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u25	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u26	Madam President! It is indeed great that this proposal was brought to the House, although rather late in this Christmas season, but nevertheless. Yesterday, the Committee on Finance started work on this matter, and today has already been decided on the report and taken forward. I would also like to express my thanks for the cooperation in committee once again, to the chairman of the committee and to the chairman of the tax section, for the fact that important entries were also made in the report, that the VAT exemption for these materials should now be clarified without delay, so that it will also apply to private service providers in the future. This broader package is linked to the fact that Parliament has now dealt three or four times with this fixed-term amendment to the VAT Act, which exempts these particular materials and testing materials from VAT for public health service providers, but we in the opposition have been very surprised at the reason why these government proposals, which have been introduced into Parliament, have not been treated equally and neutrally also by private service providers, who just as well must protect their own staff and ensure that the epidemic can be combated when providing services to Finns. We also know that a number of European countries — almost ten of them — have, however, interpreted the legislation differently from Finland in its own decision and have extended this tax exemption to private service production. I think it is very good and important that the committee has jointly stated that this issue must now be clarified. I hope that a very rapid timetable for the early part of the year, when the epidemic seems to continue, will bring to Parliament a proposal that will extend this VAT practice to a wider extent, so that it will treat all producers in a neutral manner in all situations, rather than just continue to be neutral. But I would like to express my thanks to the government parties for once again being able, in good cooperation, to move things forward. At the same time, of course, I would also like to say to all my colleagues and to the President a peaceful Christmas season. Then after the holidays, let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u27	Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u28	Mr President! I agree with the numerous thanks expressed at this part-session for this bill, which therefore removes VAT from the home barriers of the corona virus. On the same occasion, I would also like to thank the committee, which, in a good spirit and unanimously, dealt with this proposal, even in a very timely manner. Mr President! In many cases, this home rate testing is certainly much faster and more cost-effective than the straining of public testing capacity already at its limit. It is therefore important that these home tests are available to consumers at a reasonable price. Of course, if the result of this home test is positive, the result should be confirmed by the PCR test and then the authorities should impose the necessary quarantine measures. But the home test is, in any case, a very good addition. It is important, therefore, that the use of home tests should not at least be caught for money. Unfortunately, this has been the case for many people so far, and at least so far home tests have been much more expensive in Finland than in many other countries. It is therefore highly desirable that this abolition of VAT should now be reduced as fully as possible to consumer prices. I also call on the trade sector to do so. Mr President! Of course, as has been said here, vaccination tests do not replace, but they are a good addition. In addition to vaccinations and tests, many other methods are needed, including masking. This is very important, and it would be very important to use the best possible respiratory protection so that this epidemic would not get any worse. Mr President! I would therefore hope that the government will quickly bring to Parliament a bill that will also remove VAT on masks, so that people with low incomes will have better access to them. In any case, many different measures are needed to contain the rapidly accelerating corona epidemic. Finally, I wish everyone a very good and peaceful Christmas time and the government the strength to work against the corona!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u29	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u30	Madam President! It is absolutely excellent that the Committee on Finance has completed this report so quickly and that the matter should be decided in the Chamber — excellent work. Perhaps this exceptional time has led to an increase in understanding, and surely this Christmas spirit will have an effect on the value of paying attention to one’s neighbor and loving one’s neighbor so close to Christmas, and it is hoped that in the battle of this corona and in other matters of Finland we will find more common note and take things in a good direction. It is certain even today that the corona is by no means over, we all know that. So here too we must be merciful and tolerant to our fellowman, so that we take him into consideration, do not endanger his health in any way and use these breathing masks, remember to wash our hands and then vaccinate as soon as possible. It is clear that this virus is so huge that it can be modified compared to previous viruses that we really do not know what will happen with this, but we hope it will. After all, scientists and women in laboratories and research institutes are certainly working frenziedly, regardless of the holidays, to find the cure and medication that solves this virus. For my part, I wish the President and the Bureau of Parliament as a whole, the officials and all the colleagues and those working in the house a very good Christmas and good luck in 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u31	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u32	Honorable Madam Speaker! I would like to add my thanks to the fact that this report by the Committee on Finance has been rapidly completed and processed so that legislation is ready to start at the beginning of next year. Indeed, these so-called home tests, the rapid tests, will be brought to zero with regard to VAT, and this will ensure that next year the corona will be combated with a higher hand. President! I haven't done a quick test like this since this morning. I have done them several days, and I have made sure that, in this working community, too, I will make sure that the interest rate does not go awry. I have also taken these vaccines twice, and with that too I have tried to ensure that this corona is rejected. Indeed, I am pleased that these rapid tests bring VAT to zero. Then these tests can be bought and performed at a much easier threshold. I hope that next year, the year 2022, will be a year of hope, and that is the prospect of hope that we should promote and display in this Chamber too, so that this devil of the corona can be rejected. On this day in Tuoma, I would like to wish the honourable Madam President and all the fellow Members a happy and peaceful Christmas and a happy new year in 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u33	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u34	Mr President! Thank you to the Government and Minister Saarikko for the rapid reaction and presentation and, in particular, to the Committee on Finance, for the prompt handling of this matter in Parliament. As many colleagues have already said, all measures must now be put in place. The situation is extremely worrying with regard to the interest rate, and the carrying capacity of health care in particular is always at its limit. I am not just talking about the places and borders of intensive care, but I am sure that mental well-being for all citizens, but in particular it has been a test for a long time in social and health care, and that is why everyone is working towards a better reversal of the pandemic situation. Since the outbreak of the interest rate, several health professionals have come up with various tests, which we have already introduced on our own in recent months. The purpose of these tests is therefore to detect either the presence of the virus or the presence of antibodies to the virus. So, as several colleagues have said, this is not an option, but the best solution to combat a pandemic is a vaccine, but testing is also absolutely necessary if we are to be able to contain a pandemic. Of course, other measures must always be borne in mind in relation to the tests, because 100% sure tests are never, of course, dependent on how the tester performs the tests, and also on the timing of the tests, much depends on how the test is able to detect the virus. Many have also pointed out that, although we are now receiving a reduction in the tax rate for these devices, it remains to be seen how this tax reduction is passed on to prices. I believe that retailers are also involved in this common front and want to make it possible for tests to be used more and more in the future. Availability is still a big question mark. As in the early days of the pandemic, we had great uncertainties about availability of masks, so surely we also have these tests. The more users come, on the one hand, it leads to lower prices, but also to limited availability of tests. I would also like to say that, although the price will continue to fall — for example, the majority of families with children must be taken — the cost of testing is still high, and if you think about daily testing, then this will be a big expense for the individual family. That is why it is good that the interest rate strategy should now review how this could be taken into account. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u35	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, of course, to the government for starting to remove this alvi. That, of course, will help. I was just coming to that and I was about to say at the beginning of my speech that perhaps we politicians are a little bit bothered by the fact that our salary is so high and we may not be able to relate to what it costs after this 24% tax, but Mr Salonen, you raised this issue. So even after this tax is abolished, those tests are still quite expensive, especially for people with low incomes, and if it is a family, then even more must be bought. The last time I bought these tests, it was the K-supermarket Pekuri in Oulu, where the price was six euros, and when you take away 24 percent, you will have four and a half euros left. If you think of a hairdresser who has a couple of tons of money and who sees more customers every day, works right next to and around that customer, just under a meter of breathing distance, and who then wonders if you can afford that test, then many may not buy those tests because that four and a half euros, for example, every other day would be too much to pay — at least every day there is. Or a regular employee, like Hese's cashier, just the same pattern. In this context, Madam President, five days ago I took an initiative on the right to tax deductions for interest-rate tests, and here I shall take a brief look at what I propose: ‘In a new and unprecedented situation, there is There are still a number of open questions about the new variant and its effects, but it is certain that the decision-makers will be required to react even before all the questions have been answered. Preliminary data indicate that the vaccines in use are working against the new variant, but at the latest it has become clear at this stage that even vaccines do not provide a complete solution to the crisis as a whole. In a number of countries, the introduction of compulsory vaccinations has been suggested in the event of a prolonged pandemic, but in Finland this is not the path to be followed. The solution would be socially unsustainable, and such a solution would not eliminate a pandemic, but would still have to deal with it and manage the consequences. Vaccines are still the most important means of managing these consequences, but other tools are also needed to combat threats. As has been the case up to now, testing, cutting off the supply chains and protective measures are among the most important ones. They are important regardless of the properties of the omicronvariant or future variants. The public sector has naturally played a key role in the fight against the pandemic and its related activities, such as testing. More and more, however, are needed to reduce the burden on the overburdened public sector, both in terms of labour and in terms of the economy. While the public sector must continue to play a leading role in the management of the pandemic, citizens should be encouraged to take more and more responsibility for health safety in society on their own initiative. One of these is the use of home interest rate tests. They will help reduce the burden on the health sector, not only from the point of view of testing, but also from the point of view of hospital load. When the threshold for testing is low, the spread of the disease and serious cases can be prevented. The use of rapid tests also makes sense from the perspective of public finances. They can help reduce the need for more expensive testing and the need for even more expensive hospital care as soon as possible. The public sector has been largely responsible for the costs of interest-rate testing, and the total is not even yet known in the midst of a pandemic. It makes sense to make use of home tasks, cheaper speed tests on a larger scale. A quick way of facilitating access to this means would be to allow for a reduction in the cost of rapid tests in taxation. It would encourage people to make sure that they do not unknowingly move the virus forward. With regard to facial masks, it is already possible to reduce costs. The cost of masks used in work can be reduced as a cost of earning income, and the cost of masks used on business trips can be reduced as a travel expense. The possibility of a tax deduction also for rapid tests would make sense from the point of view of health safety, the economy and businesses. On the basis of the above, I propose that the Board of Directors take measures to allow for a temporary reduction in the costs of corona tests in the taxation of employees.’ Helsinki, 16.12. That's what's left behind. So this could also be an additional way after the government’s good presentation has now made it easier to obtain these cortical tests. And for that, thank you very much to the government. Before I leave for Christmas, I would like to end by thanking you, Madam President, for condemning the violence against me this year. As an employee of this Parliament, it means a great deal to me that you, as President, are taking care of us as parliamentarians and taking our side, and I would like to thank you for that. It meant so much. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u37	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u38	Mr President! Indeed, today, at this reading, we are talking about a zero rate of VAT on interest-rate tests, which is aimed at helping everyone to have access to home tests. While I was waiting for this speech, I considered that we also have interest rate test manufacturers in Finland, at least one can be found in Salo's direction, apparently there are more than one. The case, which was dated early December, had reported that these rapid tests mostly go abroad, because in Finland there is a lot of red tape about getting quick tests on the market. If there is still a similar problem when we know that rapid tests are becoming more popular, which is a good thing in terms of controlling the epidemic, I hope that the government will also look at whether there is something to be done in this regard, that tests produced in Finland will also be more easily placed on the Finnish market so that there is no shortage of them here in Finland. Any proposal that can make it possible for no one to get caught up in economic conditions for testing is also very welcome. Mr President! I also believe that many employers are introducing rapid tests more widely in the workplace when they do work that cannot be avoided. Of course, we have many of these tasks in society. Mr President! I would also like to wish you all — colleagues, you, Mr President, and all the employees of Parliament and all the Finns — a peaceful Christmas despite this worsening disease situation. Rest, build up strength and avoid contact — stay healthy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u39	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u40	Mr President! It has been exceptionally pleasant to sit and listen to excellent, pleasant speeches in the Chamber. Representative Multala also brought up this domestic perspective on these test tools in a fine way. I also appreciate Mr Tynkkysen's view that this price may still be, even if it is abolished, very high for many families. And in this context, I will mention the third name. In this context, I made an interlude when Mr Sheikki Laakso made a good speech to me when he said that he saw in his eyes a little such a wish that traders, entrepreneurs, could also make this product into such a pull-in product and even compete for it at a reduced price, starting with the fact that the actual profit, profit, would then actually come from other products than now from these rapid tests. This government proposal is also important because we all know that the citizens are also quite frustrated and tired of this corona, and we parliamentarians are also being blamed for various reasons. I think this is Christmas week about restoring trust also in democracy and the government's ability to react in the right way to the right thing, and I think this kind of signal, the message, is really important, which in addition to all of this will come. Mr President! I would also like to wish the President of Parliament and officials and all colleagues a very peaceful and merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u41	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u42	Mr President! This is a worthy proposal and, as has already been pointed out, it has been wonderful that it has been brought here so quickly. Problems have also been identified, and there is no way that this price is still a problem. Although it costs between EUR 4 and 5, there are people out there who do not even spend that amount of money on the food of the day, which is undoubtedly a problem. Secondly, I really hope that this tax advantage will be brought to prices in full and will not then be passed on to these sellers, because it is indeed a common interest for the price to be printed as low as it can be. Like other representatives, I wish the whole Parliament and all Finns a very merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u43	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u44	Madam President! All of us Members of Parliament have received hundreds of corona feedback which denies either the existence of the entire corona or at least the existence of the benefit of vaccination or at least the existence of the benefit of the corona pass. Now that the epidemic is getting worse and the effectiveness of vaccination is decreasing and the possibility of using coronapass is reduced, we receive feedback saying that the events and developments of the past few days show that vaccinations are not helping, the corona pass is not helping. I wonder, then, what better way to control this epidemic than vaccinations? At least I don't know that myself. It is a great pity that this omicron virus, this variant, partially nullifies the vaccinations taken so far. And it is a great pity that we do not know how the third vaccination and vaccination from then on can protect against this disease. Similarly, with regard to the corona passport, although it is likely to be placed on the shelf, at least temporarily, I do not know what better way to try to keep society open anyway. In any case, it has become quite clear that in this corona we have an extremely unpredictable and deplorable problem — ‘we’re talking about Finland. Although the ministers are not listening, I would like to wish Prime Minister Marin, Minister Kiuru and all the other members of the Government the strength to act against this wretched disease, and at the same time, of course, I wish the President and all the Members of Parliament a very merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-21-ps-158.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, both those present and those a little further away! It is not my job to interpret the debate in the Chamber, but I can say that in the last half hour there has been a kind of Christmas spirit in this Chamber preparing us for the actual Christmas event for a few days. I would like to thank all the representatives for the past year. This year has been hard on us in many ways. There have been a lot of restrictions that have disturbed your parliamentary work. I thank you for the long-suffering that you have shown over the past year. I would also like to say that, without your input, this house would not have maintained its own capacity. Thank you for that. At the same time, I would like to thank the entire staff of this House, the entire staff, that is, all of us in this house, and especially the people in our occupational health care who have had to stretch a lot during this corona period. With these words I wish you all a very good Christmas time with your own loved ones, and, exceptionally, we will see you in this very same room in a week's time on Tuesday.
