ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u2	Madam President! It was hoped that we would make good, firm speeches and have time to vote here in the first half hour.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u5	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u6	Mr President! The restrictions that are best for all of us have significantly weakened the conditions for companies to operate, such as restaurants. This is a well-known matter for all of us. The financial losses resulting from restrictions and regulatory provisions must be compensated for, and this is what is being done. Looks like we're headed for a better one. However, restrictions are in force in many areas. So the torment continues. But we're working on exit plans, as we should. At the same time, it is the best business and cost support, actually more effective than any aid combined. President! In general, I understand that these various stages of cost support — one, two and three — have always evolved in a better direction, certainly with field experience. So progress has been made, and committee deliberations have also been valuable and important. Cost support in 3 will improve the focus of aid on small enterprises and self-employed persons, in particular when compared with previous cost subsidies. This is a good thing. Of course, there are other changes that are more favourable to companies. I don't think they'll ever be perfect. It's probably realism. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has made appropriate comments in its report, for example, as regards the fact that the allocation of sectoral aid is, of course, justified, but stresses the diversity of the business field, the unfortunately large field which, in the same way, has suffered from the effects of the pandemic in terms of turnover. This is indeed a fact. The committee also stresses the need for guidance and advice on the application process, and rightly so. In no way must subsidies be caught up in the fact that the search for aid cannot be made, or that there is a lack of awareness of it at all. President! All in all, I hope that, with these subsidies, a substantial budgeting of EUR 380 million will help companies to stay on the line. However, no attempt is to build a future on subsidies, but at this point it is vital for many companies to get past these days.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u7	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u8	Mr President! The interest must be rejected, but so must bankruptcies. I regret to say this, but it seems that the government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin is seeking a European record of bankruptcy with its decisions. There is a third company cost support law in order to deal with it. The last two were completed last summer and last autumn. Despite good expert hearings, the government seriously screwed up those laws. The criteria for applying for previous cost support laws were either deliberately or because of lack of competence were made too difficult. As a result, almost 70 per cent of the companies applying for aid for their predicament as a result of the interest rate did not qualify for aid. Many companies failed to apply for aid because they found the criteria impossible for themselves. Many pre-column healthy businesses received only 10% of what they needed to survive, precisely because of the wrong search criteria. We Finns of Finland listened carefully to experts, including Finnish Entrepreneurs, the tourism and restaurant sector and the event sector, and we tabled amendments to the cost support laws in the committees and here in the Chamber. The government of Sanna Marin referred to our demands for change. In particular, the Centre was arrogant about our amendments and even pricked us here in the Chamber about them. Now this government has confessed to its mistakes, and even the center of the city's stinging has stopped. However, this company’s cost support in third place and the related non-disclosure compensation still suffers from dwindling defects. We have already tabled amendments to the section on the percentages of application criteria and to the month of comparison, and here I am presenting our objections. ‘Protests of objection: 1. The Parliament requires that the Board of Directors allow for a new search during the periods of support for previous cost subsidies, so that those whose imputed subsidies were below EUR 2000 or whose turnover was below EUR 60000 could receive retroactive compensation either on the basis of an application previously rejected or a resubmitted application. 2. The Parliament requires that the Government urgently prepares a new support model to take into account and replace to a reasonable extent the significant effective reduction in the business of the major players, in particular personnel and student restaurants. 3. Parliament requires that the Government strives to simplify the cost support application process and better informs about the support available and how easy it is to apply for it. 4. Parliament requires that the government, in order to reduce the uncertainty of entrepreneurs, inform as early as possible of the levels of epidemiological figures envisaged to increase or dismantle the restrictions. Similarly, future aid programmes and their objectives should be better communicated." So these are the statements. I'll be right back. In recent days we have read in the economic papers that Finland has almost least supported its own enterprises in relation to GDP. Countries such as Spain, France, Italy and Greece have supported them most. It's confusing, isn't it? This is a fact derived from the EU Commission’s statistics, and the Economic and Monetary Union magazine wrote on the subject: ‘Comparison of company subsidies is not a complete explanation. For example, Finland has an established lay-off system, which is not reflected in support statistics, whereas Denmark has directly distributed pay subsidies to firms in difficulty. However, the direction is clear. Finland has supported companies more easily than almost all other EU countries.” Minister of Finance Vanhanen said some time ago that Finland supports its own businesses less than other Nordic countries, because we are not as prosperous as they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u11	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u12	Mr President! Finland will rise with work and enterprise even after the interest rate, and it is therefore of paramount importance that companies be supported in Finland so that they can still stand even after these closures. It is important that cost support should now come, but of course the criteria are still fairly strict, and Mr Kauma is going to present an objection to the Assembly. However, I would like to point out that the time span by which these cost subsidies are planned and communicated, on the one hand, and the closure measures, on the other, is far too slow. We should be able to do more. Everyone understands that it is difficult, but it should be better possible. A restaurant entrepreneur who hears the day before that the next day the doors remain closed or can open is facing a rather difficult situation. How do you get employees to work, on the other hand, how do you have materials and raw materials to put a piece button on the table? On the other hand, it is also a situation for workers in which any lay-offs are uncertain and, on the other hand, they are not going to leave, but they may simply shift shifts when it is not known how long the closure will take, because of course there will be no entitlement to unemployment benefit or compensation. Although we have heard several times now from Mr Haatainen, the Minister for Labour, that it is not possible to make exceptional laws for one sector alone, such as last spring, where dismissal or lay-off would be possible in the shorter term and, on the other hand, unemployment security would be possible, I would still encourage the government to consider whether this would be possible in this situation, where, in addition to restaurants, there are many other companies in the tourism and nutrition sectors as well as in the welfare sector, such as gyms. On the one hand, the behaviour of consumers and, on the other hand, the messages of government and society that special shops, for example, should be avoided, have led to the time being deserted in those shopping centres. Many still keep their doors open, but I bet they don't win very well. It would therefore be important to find flexibility for both entrepreneurs and workers in this difficult situation. Of course, cost support is important, and I very much welcome the statement by the Finns on Number Three, which encouraged clear information and communication about this,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u13	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u14	Mr President! This corona crisis and its consequences will not be overcome if we do not have companies in this country, and the longer this somewhat confusing and squirming line continues, the more difficult it becomes. And the fact is that no cost support can be hung on, but the starting point is that these companies can operate as normally as possible and customers can also use it. But the Finns have done an excellent job in this regard. Mr President! In this context, I would like to highlight this squirming line as to whether the interest rate situation is bad or good. Today, despite the agreement of the parliamentary groups, a report on education policy has been brought here again, as well as legislative proposals which are not necessary and urgent. I regard this as a very bad practice of introducing proposals from outside the Treaty and, therefore, when this situation is, in practice, a little out of hand from the opposition, I regard it as contempt for the Parliament, that these proposals are still being brought here by the government parties. And I must say that when it seems to be that democracy and the rule of law are being discussed in Europe, it seems that the beam is not seen in its own eyes. In practice, the opposition is currently unable to participate in this work as it should, and in that respect I consider this policy to be very bad for the government parties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I would like to say that the Government's report on education policy has been announced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u16	Madam President! We are now dealing with business support. This is already the third cost support that is coming, and in each of the previous ones there have been shortcomings. The Finns have always raised and brought out good ideas on how to change it. Of course, the government hasn't listened to us. Perhaps now the government has received a little and has taken a little of our suggestions on board. I would therefore like to support the good proposals made by Mr Vallin, which he has just made. It is clear that if this support is not properly targeted at small businesses and self-employed people, it is a very serious matter — there are so many in this Finland. According to the proposals, the cost subsidies should now be reopened, which we think is very sensible for the Finns. The loss should be taken into account in a reasonable manner. And this information is extremely important. It is important on these issues, but it is also important on these limits. It is truly amazing that this communication is going to be the last minute. And these information channels need to reach the entrepreneurs, they really need to reach the entrepreneurs. It is clear that the interest rate is going to do the right thing at some point in the attempt to go bankrupt, and of course this should not be the case. But the most absurd thing about this is that Finland thinks that it will put stimulus money in those warm countries of the South, and then they will get quite a competitive advantage in those countries of the South compared to Finnish companies. So we are giving money as a gift to the countries of the south, and that is absurd. Soon we will be voting on these subsidies, and now the government will have the opportunity to show whether the government is voting for domestic entrepreneurs — the Finns of Finland will do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u17	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u18	Mr President! At second reading we now have cost support and closure compensation. This cost support is, after all, the acceptance of the third cost support, which will be applied for from the beginning of November to the end of February and can be applied for from 12 April to 23 June. the period between. There is also this closure allowance for companies with fewer than 49 persons. There is apparently still to be closure compensation for companies that are larger than this. The Coalition Party has tabled proposals in accordance with protest 2. We have changes to the paragraphs, but we also have one statement. We have four proposals for paragraphs, and they are as follows: Firstly, the first change is that we believe that the 20% turnover should be taken into account here, rather than the 30% turnover, as is the case with this proposal. Secondly, we want to change the fact that the minimum compensation received is not EUR 2000 but EUR 1000. The third point would be that the aid amount would be EUR 1800000 and not EUR 1000000. Fourthly, 90% of these defined costs would be reimbursed for small and micro-enterprises, rather than 70%. And, Mr President, our statement is: ‘The Commission requires the Government to issue a proposal for an event guarantee quickly to the Parliament’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u19	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u20	Mr President! First of all, I support these proposals made by Mr Kauma: the objections and this proposal for a statement. It is important that we do all we can to ensure that now, at the end of the corona, we do not create a wave of bankruptcy, hopefully. We have avoided this for the time being, but many companies are in a very different situation than they were six months ago. The cash register is once and for all empty, and the threat is still quite real in this respect, although some sectors of the economy are already doing very well. In this context, I would also like to point out that, alongside support, it would be of paramount importance to look for other creative ways to alleviate the plight. I still do not understand why accelerated lay-offs have not been possible this spring through legislative measures, as was done a year ago. At that time, together, with a great consensus, it was felt in society that it was proportionate and necessary to allow people, in the event of unexpected restrictions, to quickly benefit from unemployment benefit before the cashier is empty and, on the other hand, entrepreneurs see that this is happening before their cashier is empty and that they are faced with problems, whether they pay for something other than the cashier of the company, when layoffs cannot take effect for two weeks, or whether they are not paying for wages. It's a tough place for more people. At the same time, I would also like to urge that now that we look at the next few months, the exit plan is everything. And if you read the draft announced by the government today, unfortunately, you cannot give a very definite answer to the festival or even the organizer of the Hesa Cup, how will it be possible to participate in May, June, July and whether the event can be organised? In this respect, I would like to ask the government parties now to take the courage to look at examples of how Denmark has tried to resolve this when some thought has been given to this issue at an earlier stage. However, would it be better if we could give certainty to cultural and sports organisers that the participants will be able to participate — if even if there is a proof of vaccination or a recent negative test, could take part in this type of event already during the transitional period? It is not a question of closing anything that would otherwise be open to everyone. I would rather be open to everyone, which is only safe, but if the options are that no one can attend the May, June, July event, or we could make it possible for the event industry to organise them, would the latter not be better?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u21	I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, exceptionally — when I consider that there are some Members here, but a few more speeches — whether it is possible for us to hold this vote before the sitting at 2.15 p.m., so that we can complete this vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u25	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u26	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong it, but I feel it is necessary, following Mr Vallin's speech, to correct his very special notion that the government would deliberately bankrupt Finnish companies. That's an outrageous argument. It is quite true that when the corona crisis started, it has not been possible to target it quite correctly and not all the cost subsidies have always gone on schedule so that they hit it in the most distress, but the government has tried its best. And while we still have a crisis to deal with here and we have to think seriously about what we can do to get this corona crisis in order, and we may also have to rely on these closures and others, I very much hope that no party in this Chamber will instigate among us Finnish entrepreneurs not to be appreciated for their work, let alone to be driven into bankruptcy deliberately. Finnish entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and larger entrepreneurs are the backbone of the Finnish welfare state because they create work here, and if they do not feel well, the whole of Finland will collapse. Therefore, with regard to such serious accusations, I would ask you to consider the manner in which you speak here. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u27	Five statements have been made during the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. Let me ask you again: am I correct in interpreting that there are voting teams here, enough people in groups, so that we can proceed to the vote right away?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u28	In the course of the debate, Mr Vallin Minna Reijosen supported the four motions for statements under protest 1 and Mr Kai Mykkänen supported the proposal for a statement under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u29	The plenary session will be suspended and resumed at 2.15 p.m. following the end of the meetings of the large committee and the Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u30	We shall now proceed to the adjourned sitting at 1:34 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u31	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 6/2021 vp. — Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u32	Mr President! Restaurants have been closed in the areas mentioned in the regulations and, in view, they will remain closed for a week or more. Under the guise of the corona, very serious damage has already been done to business activities. We have had enough of this to dwell on here, so I will just be brief. I believe that all these blocking measures, which are detrimental to business, to people's livelihoods and to citizens' freedoms, must be stopped immediately. According to statistics, there is no basis for any such measures, nor has there been. The intimidation of people with a corona has also been irresponsible and must also be stopped immediately. I therefore propose that the regulation be repealed and that society be immediately restored to normal order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u33	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u34	Mr President! The committee has dealt with the regulation carefully. This is an ex post check, in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has in practice drawn attention to the very issues that took place in this Chamber debate, in the referral debate, at the beginning of the week. In practice, I mean that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered, among other things, a more fine regional differentiation at regional level in the context of the exclusion of restaurants. As far as Lapland is concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs continued to draw attention to the fact that this finer examination should also be carried out in other provinces, as well as in the case of different types of restaurants and related risk analyses. The third point is that the Constitutional Committee has repeatedly stated that there is no legal obstacle to the treatment of restaurants as well as other companies which are currently closed under Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases, i.e. restaurants could be involved in the same way in the regulation of the Act on communicable diseases. I hope that this will finally, after this time, also bring about legislative needs and legislation in the direction of the Government, government proposals which will be brought to the attention of Parliament. Unfortunately, although the corona situation is constantly improving and there are fewer infections in Finland for a while, the situation is different in the world, and unfortunately we still do not know whether the situation will be over in the autumn. It would therefore be useful to update the legislation in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-09-ps-38.u35	In the course of the debate, Mr Turtiainen has tabled a proposal to repeal the regulation. It hasn't been supported, so it's going to wear off.
