ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u1	Before going to the actual points, I would like to say that it will be easier to use the mask in the Chamber so that representatives can speak from the podium without a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u2	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents has proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 21 June 20021. Contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, Kai Mykkänen, supported by Mr Kauman, has proposed that the Committee on Transport and Communications should also deliver an opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u3	The proposal must be put to the vote. Proposal of the Council of Presidents ‘and’,Mr KaiiMuhkänen’s proposal ‘no’. Please vote ‘and’or’ not ‘.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u4	Let's take the vote again. Let's reset the planes and take it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u5	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 10/2021 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. — Debate, Chairman of the committee, representative Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u6	Mr President! This third draft amending budget will increase the budget by around EUR 2.2 billion and reduce actual revenue by EUR 185 million. The tax revenue estimates have found a decrease, in particular as a result of a deterioration in taxes on earnings and capital income, inheritance and gift taxes and VAT revenue estimates. Miscellaneous revenue will be increased by an additional EUR 50 million from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) funded by the EU, linked to the Rural Development Programme in Mainland Finland. An increase of EUR 238 million in appropriations and powers is also proposed in connection with the implementation of the EU recovery recovery plan. At this stage, when the final national recovery and recovery plan has been submitted to the Commission, Finland will apply for an advance payment of 13%, and the corresponding funding will be required in its own national budget to mobilise the projects. An important part of the budget increases is due to the relief of the coronavirus situation. In particular, the negative effects on children and young people are being prevented. The majority of this EUR 111 million package is directed to the administrative sectors of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and there to improve access to substance abuse and mental health services. Overall, the third draft amending budget increases the need for net government borrowing by around EUR 2.5 billion and the increase in net borrowing without the recovery and recovery support instrument is estimated to be EUR 2240 million. This is estimated at around EUR 14.4 billion in net government borrowing this year. At the end of the year, central government debt would rise to around EUR 139 billion, to 56 per cent of GDP. A few words on these point-by-point proposals. The increase in early childhood education, pre-primary and basic education and liberal education is precisely corona-based, EUR 40 million, is important in this post-care situation and must be allocated to municipalities according to that need. There have been significant differences between municipalities and regions in the incidence of the corona virus epidemic and its effects are also very different from one locality to another. It is therefore important that the allocation of additional funding should take into account, in particular, those municipalities that have suffered most from the corona epidemic. It is also necessary for municipalities to target funding specifically for measures to reduce the learning gap. The committee believes that it is justified that additional funding should be granted under the condition of a ban on the lay-off of teaching staff, which is essential for filling learning gaps. In particular, the Committee notes that the corona virus epidemic may lead to far-reaching learning and welfare deficits, the extent and impact of which are difficult to assess at this stage. It is therefore important to assess the need for increased support measures in the future. Support measures will then be added separately to the operating costs of liberal educational institutions, vocational training and upper secondary school education. The Committee welcomes the fact that additional resources will also be allocated to filling learning gaps in upper secondary and vocational education and training. In upper secondary school education, support measures are presented at EUR 15 million and in vocational education at EUR 5 million. The additional funding will continue and extend the support measures already launched with the previously allocated additional resources. It is important that additional contributions also contribute to the further training of young people, as the slowing down of studies and the weakening of learning outcomes can affect the completion of a yo-qualification and the transfer to further studies. The Committee also considers it important to monitor the adequacy of funding and to ensure that all training providers have sufficient resources to organise support measures. A large amount in the form of a new item has then been directed in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy's administrative sector to assist peat entrepreneurs, EUR 30.6 million in the form of a new appropriation. The energy use of peat has fallen faster than anticipated, which has led to a situation in which peat businesses and entrepreneurs are in a situation where there are no business conditions in the peat sector to an earlier extent. It has been pointed out in the expert hearings that aid should also be granted to those whose crop production is discontinued but other production is still ongoing. The Committee considers it important to clarify the extent to which the production of peat for growth and drought could be safeguarded when the production of peat for energy ends. The Committee considers it important that entrepreneurs in the peat sector are supported and that changes in the sector are monitored. It is also important to assess and monitor the effectiveness of the aid scheme and the adequacy of the aid and appropriations. For the purpose of capitalisation of Finnvera's export guarantee and special guarantee operations, EUR 650 million is proposed for transfer to the State Guarantee Fund. The Fund reserve provides for a situation where the remaining funds in the State Guarantee Fund would not be sufficient to cover the loss-making separate result of Finnvera’s export guarantee and special guarantee operations. Much of Finnvera's export guarantee liabilities relate to future ship deliveries. When the total liabilities are EUR 22.4 billion, the share of ship and shipbuilding liabilities is EUR 11.5 billion. The future prospects for the cruise sector are now improving and it seems good that no major losses will be realised in the near future. An important development budget of EUR 39 million is proposed for social and health care provided by municipalities for support measures for children and young people to alleviate the disadvantages caused by the corona virus epidemic. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure of EUR 16 million on improving access to mental health services and EUR 23 million on improving services related to the treatment and rehabilitation of people with substance abuse problems. This is therefore part of the EUR 111 million package of aid for the repair of the corona situation for children and young people. It is very important to effectively reduce the debt to care, rehabilitation and services, as the corona epidemic has caused a large amount of care debt, both at the base level and at the specific level, especially in the regions most affected by the corona epidemic. There is now a EUR 45 million allocated here, and the committee pays particular attention to the care debt related to mental health services and stresses the need to improve access to services and speed up access to care. The Committee would point out that the government has committed itself in the 21st budget debate to abolishing the management and service debt of EUR 450 million as a whole between 21 and 23. The reduction in the management debt and the adequacy of the resources allocated to it must be monitored and assessed in the future. As a whole, the committee proposes in its proposal for a decision that Parliament approve the proposal for the third amending budget for the year 21 contained in the Government's draft 95/21, subject to changes in the report, and that Parliament should decide that the third amending budget for the year 21 should apply 1. From 1 July. The report contains two objections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u7	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u8	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I shall begin by tabling an amendment following a joint objection from the Group of the European People's Party and the Christian Democrats. Prime Minister Sanna Marin's left-wing government has broken the record of all her predecessors in debt. Some of the debt collection has been well-founded in the management of the corona crisis and in order to cope with it. Now, however, it seems that the debt rally will continue even after the interest rate, and the spending limits barrage, which was regarded as the port of responsible economics, became a debt barrage with the ear of spring. For all the problems, this left-wing government has put forward and always decided on additional debt. A hundred million there, a billion there, solved all the problems and also the internal differences and the fact that the left-wing government was holding together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u13	And here are two further pre-arranged speeches. After that, Minister Saarikko, and then we move on to the debate. - And the Minister... Excuse me, Congressman Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u14	Mr President! The amending budget under consideration includes expenditure increases relating, inter alia, to the direct costs of the interest-bearing pandemic and to the costs of rescuing businesses. New expenditure will amount to approximately EUR 2.1 billion and revenue will be reduced by around 185 million. The balance of the economy will be reduced by EUR 2357 million, which will be covered by a new debt. I understand that, in an exceptional situation, we have even had to take on debt in order to keep everyone involved in society. It is difficult to understand that the government does not actually cross the stick in order to improve the structures of our economy, to support the growth of economic activity and, consequently, to generate income. Is this because of laziness, fear, or lack of knowledge? The rising season has begun in the world, and so has Finland. Now would be a unique opportunity to be properly involved in the suction and to get the foundation of the well-being of the Finnish people, the state economy, favourable development and better. Finland, however, faces a growth challenge, and according to the Bank of Finland, after a few years of growth, heavy economic structures will bring the growth in Finland down to around one per cent in 2023. I would point out that elsewhere, such as Sweden, growth is forecast to continue quite rampant from 23 onwards. The same phenomenon is found in other Nordic countries. Finland has already fallen from the Nordic sled as a result of this infallibility, inability to reform and living as a debt. We will see only a rear-view mirror from our analogue countries and not for long longer, because we are falling behind more and more, thanks to the infallibility of the left-wing government and the sleazy distribution of debt money among the governments' favorite targets. I am surprised that although there seems to be no obstacles to the distribution of the debt money in the total central government budget, the government is cutting money from the police, for example, this year. Why do we not want to invest in safety when there are obvious challenges to it? Finland and Finns deserve better. Finland’s well-being is secured by strong central government finances, and it can be achieved on a sound basis by taking measures to contribute to the growth of the upswing. However, this would require our economic system and spending structures to be trimed more effectively. This is a challenging task, of course, but we do not need to invent ourselves, because the means are written down — there must be the courage to introduce them. Various expert groups and ministries have drawn up a number of studies on how to bring our country's economic performance to the Nordic level and increase jobs for the unemployed. Mr President! The Government Programme has committed itself to putting an end to debt. Could the government admit that this objective has been abandoned? On the other hand, the left-wing government is bubbling in its debt so that the tanner fumbles and the fence falls, so that the spending limits have been abandoned, and the frameworks are being broken all the time. The saddest thing is that the left-wing government programme has made a promise of intergenerational justice. It says: 'We also do not want to live at the expense of future generations: that is why we commit ourselves to the 75% employment rate and to the balance of public finances in 2023.' That's a great promise, but it's not gonna happen. I'm asking why you're not even trying. Mr President! I support the joint amendment tabled by Mr Heinonen to the Group of the European People's Party and Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u15	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u16	Madam President! This amending budget is large in size. Additional expenditure amounts to EUR 2.2 billion. However, it should be noted that the total amount of capitalisation is approximately EUR 850 million. The main factors behind the amending budget remain the interest rate. It costs money to take care of the interest rate, which is still reflected in this estimate. If the interest rate situation improves as expected, additional funding for interest rate operations will no longer be required in the autumn. At the same time, it is our job to deal with the lack of learning and well-being. Mr President! A key element of this amending budget is the launch of Finland’s sustainable growth programme. This programme provides guidelines for Finland’s future and sustainable growth. Among other things, it directs impressive investments in research and raising the level of competence. The Sustainable Growth Programme will help us to respond to the wave of growth. The third amending budget amounts to a total of EUR 9.7 million for continuous learning. This is gonna come in handy. Competences safeguard Finland’s future. The reform of continuous learning aims to ensure that all citizens have the knowledge, skills and skills necessary for working life and a meaningful life. In the long run, the level of competence of our people will rise. Equally important is the increase in employment rates. The number and proportion of graduates aged 25 to 64 will increase. By contrast, the number and share of 25-64 year-olds without a qualification after the primary level will decrease. Continuous learning is aimed at everyone developing their skills during their working lives. Everyone must be able to reform their skills proactively in order to make it possible to develop at work, to find employment in new jobs in the midst of changes in working life and to make career advancement possible. In this way, competence renews working life and working life skills. The skilled labour force supports sustainable growth, innovation and competitiveness in our country and thus the well-being of our citizens. Employers receive skilled labour across the country. The shortage of beneficiaries is no longer an obstacle to business growth. Working communities are formed and developed in such a way as to support the learning and self-development of new ones. These are good objectives which we now have the resources to implement. EUR 2 million will be allocated to the digital whole of continuous learning. It is necessary to have guidance and advice, precision courses and all training offers on the same platform. EUR 2 million is allocated to the digitalisation of higher education and the strengthening of flexible learning. We're gonna need this, too. Mr President! An amending budget has provided money for the launch of projects under the Sustainable Growth Programme, which is still being financed at this stage by government debt. However, Finland will receive money from the EU for a sustainable growth programme. By the way, the amending budget also invests in supporting education and training. It is proposed that EUR 5 million should be made available to the administrators of liberal educational institutions to offset the effects of the corona virus situation. Overall, EUR 64 million is proposed to mitigate the effects of the corona virus situation in education and training. These investments can be described as significant, above all necessary. It is now time to invest in education. It will create a real sustainable foundation for the future. Thank you to the government for supporting sustainable growth and knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u17	Minister Saarikko, five minutes, followed by a debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u18	Mr President! In particular, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Finance — I would like to thank the chairman and the committee as a whole for giving this third draft amending budget and for your wise observations on it! Thank you, too, for the criticisms expressed by the opposition here with fresh and strong words. Perhaps I will come back to what was and is the underlying element of this amending budget. Its common denominator is the interest rate and its additional expenditure needs. I was hoping in the referral debate a little while ago that this would be the last of its kind on this scale. What I meant was that, after this amending budget, we could work together towards strengthening the growth of the spirit of energy, thinking and reform after the interest rate. In that respect, Mr President, the situation is now looking very good. The disease situation in the whole country has calmed down, making the opening up of restaurants, events and also tourism a positive development. The recent economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance shows that the economic recovery will be strong towards the end of this year and even next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u21	And now I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and use the V button to ask for the floor. — The first response is by Mrs Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u22	Thank you, honourable Speaker! Personally, I would not see any excesses in opposition protests. Perhaps the central point of our own protest is that if growth in the world is now starting to take off on a large scale, but for some reason it is not going to leave Finland — and this global economic growth is also raising inflation rates at international level well above the level of 2 to 3; the United States has already reached 4 — this could cause the problem of a significant increase in the Finnish government's debt management expenditure, and it would also reduce the state's economic mobility and, among other things, these R & D contributions, which have been discussed today. I think that these R & D investments, which we are doing here, are all right, and they put 40 million into the battery ecosystem, which is a good investment. I think that the government should choose a winner, and that winner might be this battery ecosystem, where more investments should be made in the future. More than half of Finland's R & D spending is currently on track
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u23	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u24	Mr President! We must acknowledge both the committee and the minister who presented the additional budget. This must be seen as part of the interest rate mechanism, as part of the economic and employment policies of the corona era and also as part of the welfare policy. And yes, the results seem to speak for themselves. The economic policy of this government seems to be working. Thus, for example, Finland has risen to the highest position in the IMD competitiveness comparison since 2009. It has never been this high when the coalition has been in the government since the 2010s. Industrial fixed investments are rising to the highest level in history. Investments in R & D for enterprises are increasing by 12%. When you look at these growth figures, it seems that this government's economic policy is working. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u25	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u26	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his constructive attitude, including our concern, especially for our children, for the way in which the debt of public finances is charged. However, we have to be genuinely concerned because, in line with the government's own economic plan, the debt ratio exceeds as much as 100 % in these prospects by 2040 and, after a moment of stabilisation, debt will accelerate immediately after the middle of the decade, even if these minor measures, which the government is doing, are fully implemented. You were supposed to set limits on debt in last autumn's decisions this year. Since then, there has been a boom. As Vähämäki pointed out, the risk of inflation and interest rates increased. What on earth is the need, Minister of Finance, for debt recovery? This is an anti-keynesian policy of speeding up indebtedness while we are in the historic uprising.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u27	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u28	Madam President! As the Minister for Finance has said, I hope that this will be the last amending budget of its kind, with such a strong interest rate management focus. Indeed, the vast majority of this is still corona-related, and then also when it comes to developing business activities, raising them is also part of it. For example, this aid for shipyards or the raising of export credit guarantees is precisely in case our shipyards operate if there are further responsibilities to Finland. Among other things, it is very important to raise the issue of research, as has indeed been discussed today, but it is probably one thing to get companies on board. If this is now a good interest rate situation and livelihoods start to rise, then it is also good to give an injection into business and R & D activities, so that more profitable business activities can also be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u29	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u30	Madam President! The Minister of Finance somewhat criticised the opposition for its fierce criticism, but, yes, if you look at these opposition protests, these clearly show that we support the government in these interest rate measures. We have not gone to criticise them in themselves. And if you look at these budget lines, there are no additions here, nor are there any reductions in them. Instead, we are concerned about the big picture of the economy and also about whether we are now taking timely measures in cyclical terms. In that sense, I would also like the Ministry of Finance to have an understanding of this encouraging criticism of the opposition. If we look at this economic growth now, then, above all, we need productivity growth, and now, if we look at these economic indicators, which the Ministry itself has produced, it is worrying that if this rate of debt continues to be the same, then we are already above the 100 % threshold in 2040, and then there is also this 8 billion sustainability gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u31	Congressman Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u33	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u34	Madam President! Representative Suomela listed the undisputed problems caused by the corona, and there are very serious problems, such as those related to social services in the capital region and Helsinki. That is why the government in this social reform is cutting funding for these regions compared to the fact that this reform has not been carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u37	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u41	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u42	Mr President! Last Friday, our group in the Committee on Finance's objection describes the overall proposal on how we should act in a different way in economic policy. We'd make a lot of changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u45	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u46	Mr President! In the midst of the crisis, responsible economic policy has been and still is to ensure that people are taken care of and that the least damage can be done over the crisis. The Left Alliance stresses that it is very important that the government now resolutely dismantles the nursing debt and the learning debt left by the interest rate. People's well-being is also a prerequisite for economic recovery and longer-term sustainability. This amending budget tackles the learning debt and mental health debt caused by corona for children and young people. The impact of the interest rate will now be mitigated by a support package of more than EUR 100 million for children and young people, most of which will focus on early childhood education and schools. In the past, the Coalition Party has also called for structural reforms, yet you have opposed an extension of the historical compulsory education system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u48	Time! — Representative Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u49	Mr President! This government took out 18.4 billion in debt last year, and this additional budget will amount to 14.4 billion this year, or some 33 billion in total. In addition, through the EU support package, the government has taken on the responsibility of EUR 6.5 billion for taxpayers, which is, in total, around EUR 40 billion for future taxpayers in two years. We accept that interest-bearing expenditure has been taken as a loan, and this is how it is done, but although this additional budget is mainly about interest and one-off expenditure, we believe that the government should have opened the budget by means of a law that, for example, free of charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u50	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u51	Madam President! We will certainly be holding this debate on budgetary frameworks also during this part-session in relation to the report on public finances. Of course, it is very exceptional that we should not be able to reach those original frameworks during the whole parliamentary term, and, admittedly, the National Audit Office has also taken the view on this issue that the spending limits procedure has been credible and that the government must be able to strengthen it, and this is, of course, an important message.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u54	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u55	Madam President! This debate in the Chamber brings to the attention of the government parties how this debt relationship can now be settled, even though, like the representative, Mr Mykkänen said, in fact, the debt ratio is stagnating for about a year, but in fact, with the decisions and measures of this government, it will continue to grow well into the 2040s. That is why it is important to look after our economy, to strengthen economic growth and to strengthen and increase employment, so that this public finances can be taken care of and indebtedness can be contained. We know, however, that the increase in employment is far behind, and now I ask the Minister what kind of decisions the government intends to take in the August budget debate on the number of tens of thousands of new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u56	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u57	Mr President! The Coalition Party seems to be continuing this ‘cake time save’ line. [Ben Zyskowicz requests the reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u58	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u59	Mr President! In last autumn's budget debate, the Marin government increased spending by around 4 billion for this year, and at that time the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, said that they were added because there was no need to make so many additional budgets, they were already added directly to the administration of the interest rate. Well, now we're in the third additional budget this year, so even 4 billion was not enough for much of this year. I would have asked now, when this has already been demonstrated on many occasions by this violent indebtedness and the balance between public finances, what kind of employment measures the government is taking in order to create jobs in companies that are precisely strengthening public finances and not eating public finances — jobs that do not pay for public finances. And the second question is how you intend to promote the dismantling of these restrictions, in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u60	Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u61	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the opposition that employment is the key to our future economic development, and that is why we need this constant thinking about more employment measures. But if we go back to this hard criticism of the fact that the government is spending a lot of money, it is rather strange that we are dealing with an additional budget and you are making strong criticisms, but the figures are the same both in your alternative to this additional budget and in our supplementary budget. In other words, no euro would you be investing less than the government is doing at the moment. Then, considering these long - term savings, they may show the difference in thinking between us. We want to invest in the services and training of the unemployed so that they can find employment more quickly and keep open jobs, but you want to cut unemployment benefit, housing allowance, income support and other social benefits in the midst of this corona pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u62	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u63	Madam President! I found the first speech by Minister Saarikko encouraging. And although we are certainly on different lines here and I think that the government bus is on the wrong path, did I understand correctly when you raised different points in your speech and I understood that spending-raising and debt-raising measures would now have been taken and that in the autumn there would be growth-enhancing and employment-enhancing measures or the like? This would be absolutely fantastic if you finally had these coming, and I would very much like to trust you if that were to happen. Would you please tell us what you are now planning and what kind of measures you will bring to the Chamber in the autumn so that we can then believe that Finland's economy and structures will be repaired and the economy will work?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u64	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u65	Mr President! First of all, I'm trying to open my mind about this corona time. I have been thinking a lot, even though the crisis is completely different, about how much we have compared this to the recession of the 1990s and the economic crisis that happened in Finland just over 10 years ago. And especially if we think of the years of recession, none of us are talking about a single year, but about a period that left its mark on Finnish society, people today. Just the same way we should deal with this corona crisis. That it has been the time for disease treatment, which has been an exceptional time with its preparedness laws, and we hope that that time will not return. But history will look at this time during the corona years. And that also means how we as a nation were able to recover from the time of this disease. It seems to mean rapid, record-breaking, accelerating growth, but at the same time the ability to correct structures and make economic reform decisions also in relation to companies. And that is why it would be desirable to continue the approach of cooperation which the opposition took during the course of the exceptional crisis of corona disease, even after this period, because these years are being evaluated as a whole. You asked more legitimate questions. I will respond closely to them. Mr Kulmuni, yes, returning to the frameworks is a matter of principle and importance — just as the desire at European Union level to adhere to the fiscal rules that govern all European economies, as it were. Yes, employment measures will be taken and the first of them will now be decided in the budget debate. The government has already committed itself to solutions that will strengthen public finances in terms of employment by 450 million, and will make decisions on top of that, with an estimated budget of 110 million plus. This is what the government is committed to. It's not gonna be easy, either, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u66	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u67	Mr President! At least in business life, a good guiding principle is to minimise costs and maximise incomes. And if I myself have understood the status of the Finnish state as compared to other countries, then there should be more or less the same thinking here at state level. However, in this amending budget, even if someone thinks it is a small matter, there is an economic policy characteristic that this amending budget supports peat producers — that is, the state supports peat producers when it should be the other way around. A flawed economic policy that starts with ideology and does not recognise that we do not have a certain range of alternative forms of heat production and energy production available in energy policy, leads to precisely this kind of situation, where you just stare at combustion peat but do not notice that it is quite central. Combustion peat is central to the fact that we receive litter and growing peat. And now that the world is in high demand for peat and peat, if it is a long-fibre product, and when the price is high, would the Minister of Finance be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u68	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u69	Mr President! The Coalition Party has said that they have made a list that would bring the state finances of next year into the original framework, that is to say, a cut of around 900 million. And their cut list is the savings of their alternative budget for this year, and the argument is that they remain permanent. Fine, but where have you forgotten your additions? All you have to do is mention the therapy guarantee and the police budget. Were those reductions in day care fees temporary — will they be increased again? What do you say we take 50 million out of care for the elderly? Will 140 million of the investment in R & D be taken away immediately next year? Was the increase in the income limits of the student allowance only temporary? You want to re-cut for celiac disease? Whether to take teachers from early childhood education and comprehensive school
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u70	Time. — Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u71	Mr President! In a certain way, when I look at this amending budget, there are not many new elements. I would at least like the Minister of Finance to think about the new openings we could do in order to boost growth and product development. Giving money alone is not always the solution, but I think, for example, that the proposal by former Chief of Staff, Mr Hetemäki, to introduce a reduction in product development rather than double depreciation, could be worth considering how it could be implemented, namely that it already exists in twenty EU countries. In this way we would be able to get to the point where the investments in product development are not just in the hands of a handful of companies, but in the interests of expanding the spectrum. The second thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u72	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u73	Mr President! In my opinion, the Minister for Finance described very well how these corona years are, as it were, a whole. One important part of this package is this lifting of restrictions, which Mr Rantanen mentioned earlier. In this regard, I personally think it is very important that we move forward more vigorously, fairly and transparently, in order to justify the remaining restrictions. Another important element is, of course, that research work, which also emerged, which in a way creates the path from now on, and is one of the most important issues for the future of this country. Unfortunately, however, it is obvious that the effects of this exceptional period will also have to be corrected for a long time. The decisions we take today and in the years to come will determine how long this pandemic will leave for the well-being and learning of children and young people. That is precisely why the package of children and young people involved in this amending budget, those investments in learning, mental health, intoxicant abuse services, is really urgently needed. I hope and think it is important that it is targeted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u74	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u75	Honorable Speaker! The representative, Mr Kankaanniemi, raised well the debts and responsibilities of the state that arose in this two-year period, and unfortunately there were no further comments on this issue. In my opinion, this is the key issue to which attention should be paid — the state is not getting too much debt. Of course, there has also been an increase in the balance sheet of the State since the ownership, including the portfolio of Solidium. I would like to highlight this battery ecosystem and its R & D inputs. We have the ores here in the country. We could generate profits and jobs here in Finland and a piece of the battery ecosystem. This could be done partly through state ownership, and the battery itself brings considerable benefits to the individual and society and then see how the electrification of transport is progressing. The electrification of heating can also progress
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u76	Congressman Kiljunen Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u77	Madam President! Mr Kopra, you said in your first speech that the government is deleveraging heavily on the government's favourite targets. I must say, I am surprised at your argument. The Marin government cares about people. However, this is not the case when you cut unemployment security and people in the most difficult situation in life. Korona has touched and affected the well-being of children and young people in particular, health and the opportunities to learn and study. This is why the government is investing in children and young people. If we do not immediately improve the difficult situation of children and young people, we will have a generation of people who will be excluded from society as a result of the corona, and its costs will be many times higher. This would be a tragedy for many children and young people and their future. We have a responsibility to care for these children and young people,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u78	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u79	Mr President! Of course, the coalition cares about children and young people — that is what we are all doing here, and that is what we are working for. For example, I wonder why the government does not make a full contribution to the problems that are obvious and that we know. If, for example, experts say that extending compulsory education does not particularly help young people with problems, but there is a lot of money going on, why not spend the money you are now putting in there to extend compulsory education, for example, to increase the welfare of younger people, to solve younger problems? It would be an act that would eliminate those adult problems, a financially sustainable way of helping young people and children, and I believe that the whole Parliament would be happy to join in on such an act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u80	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u81	President! Like Mr Kiljunen, I also felt that I heard the criticism that the government was distributing money to the interests. In my opinion, Mr Kopra was right about this. Indeed, this third amending budget allocates funds to several administrative sectors in order to offset the effects of the corona virus situation on children and young people. They are the government's values, and they are also the government's favourite and favorite targets, but instead of reproaching me, I am delighted with the investments in early childhood education, basic education, vocational education, upper secondary school education, higher education and free education. In this time, children and young people need support, and all these measures are vital.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u82	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u83	Madam President! Yeah, there must be some wonders about this criticism of the coalition as to what the government has done, but much of this over the past year has been invested specifically in the problems of corona and its problems, young people and children and education, as has been well said here. We have a shortage of experts in certain areas. Companies are in growth volumes, but there are no experts, and therefore it makes sense to invest in the growth side. I would also like to highlight transport projects here, as has been the case, for example, in the fourth amending budget of last year and now in this amending budget. They are a sign to the business community that they and their products will also be needed in the future and will need to be taken forward more effectively. So, yes, this has been positive,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u84	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u85	Mr President! I would say to Mr Kopra that extending compulsory education will cost himself back with time when everything is included. The Minister of Finance spoke about the fact that tomorrow's decision on social security is a strong signal to creditors that Finland is capable of structural reforms. The implementation of social services also needs new know-how and new ways of working. It is therefore good that the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are now launching a joint project to develop higher education, supplementary education, training and continuous learning for the needs of working life. Accurate training promotes employment. It also helps that Finland’s growth is not stopped by a lack of skilled labour. Once we are in the wave of growth, it will also be easier to return to the framework and to the path of debt repayment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u86	According to the President's math, all those who have asked to speak in the debate and have received either one or two speeches in the Chamber, so let us move on to the list of speakers. — Representative Aittakumpu absent. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u87	Mr President! The main content of the third amending budget is quite good. It includes measures to strengthen economic restructuring, a carbon-neutral welfare society, digitalisation and the data economy. These measures will speed up research, employment, deleveraging and green transition. These are all important cornerposts as a builder of the Finnish future. Similarly, we can welcome the fact that the lisuri offers a backseat to the industry, which is an important example and a necessity for subsidies to peat entrepreneurs. The energy use of peat has fallen faster than anticipated, unmanageable, and therefore peat businesses and entrepreneurs have come to a situation in which there is no longer any business conditions in the sector that have existed on an earlier scale. They must be unequivocally supported. President! I am particularly pleased that the draft amending budget provides for funding for several administrative sectors for the current corona wounds among children and young people. Children’s learning has been hampered by the epidemic, and differences in well-being and learning have increased. The situation of vulnerable children has deteriorated and the need for support has also increased in children who have not had problems with schooling in the past. This is a support and hand-out for Finnish children and young people, and it is absolutely necessary. Vocational and upper secondary school education also receive attention, as should be the case. In upper secondary school education, EUR 15 million are presented for support measures and EUR 5 million for vocational education. The additional funding will continue and extend the support measures already launched with the resources already allocated — very necessary. In addition to additional resources, there is also a need to ensure that basic funding for upper secondary and vocational education and training is adequate. It is important to ensure the functioning of student and study services and the availability and quality of related services. That is the very essence of our education. It is also good to see the importance of free cultural work in the big picture. That is why it is essential that the amending budget also pays attention to them. President! EUR 4 million will be added to the guidance of university students and to strengthen student well-being. This appropriation is intended to cover student guidance and support at universities and universities of applied sciences. In many places, learning and learning have been weaker in remote education, and the corona epidemic has also made social interaction more difficult and has added to the anxiety and coping problems of young people. The unpleasant consequences of exceptional circumstances are piling up in many young people. In this situation, it is also important to strengthen the availability of mental health services for students. That is why I am pleased that the government is showing a significant amount of EUR 16 million in support of increasing the availability of mental health services. We all know how necessary that is. So thank you for doing this. This is part of the so-called EUR 111 million support package for children and young people, which also includes strong additional contributions to the well-being and guidance of children and young people. The Committee on Finance also wisely emphasises the effectiveness of student and student care and the good availability of mental health services in school health care. That's where the essence of life really is. President! It costs money to run the interest rate, which is still reflected in the amending budget. Let us assume, however, that we are heading towards better times in which many of the sorrows that have been heaped upon us are receding. I believe that this amending budget will create hope on that path.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u88	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u89	Mr President! As has been said, the third amending budget for 2021 is a strong stimulus. The budget not only mitigates the disadvantages of the interest rate but also stimulates sustainable growth. But where does that sustainable growth come from? In my view, regional development priorities in the regions give a good indication of this. The priorities are divided into five different categories: mitigation of climate change and safeguarding biodiversity, sustainable urban development and well-functioning links, renewable business and accelerating R & D activities, knowledge and education as a resource for regional development, increased inclusion and well-being and prevention of inequalities. Mr President! This is precisely what the EUR 2.2 billion amending budget is aimed at. It is now time to boost growth, advance investment and start implementing the green transition through the EU Recovery Instrument. Support for the green transition will be directed, among other things, towards the circular economy, the abandonment of oil and the charging infrastructure of electric cars. It is responsible to stick to promises and goals. It is responsible to have a long-term policy whose fruits carry far away. We continue to aim for Finland to be carbon neutral in 2035 and for Finland to be able and able to do well here because we know how. Mr President! Sustainable growth cannot be achieved without healthy people. The highest price for the corona crisis, as in the case of crises in general, is paid for by younger generations. We have to keep the kids and the kids with us. We must promote sustainable development so that future generations also have the opportunity to pursue a happy life. Perhaps the biggest debt caused by the corona crisis will be the welfare and learning debt of children and young people, which is now being filled with a support package of over EUR 100 million. The crisis has deepened the inequalities between children and young people and increased mental health problems. This is why funding is now being strongly targeted at improving access to mental health and substance abuse services, i.e. low-threshold services. At the same time, we must ensure that the measures already decided in the Government Programme to promote the services and well-being of children and young people are progressing. No one yet knows the final price tag for this pandemic. At the moment it seems that Finland’s economy will survive with a relatively small dent. We know why: we have done well in dealing with the corona crisis internationally. Hopefully, we will also be among the top countries in the post-crisis process, and that is where this amending budget is a good start.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u90	Congressman Kauma is gone. — Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u91	Madam President! As I have already said, it is, of course, positive that this amending budget provides, among other things, for the well-being of children and young people during the times of this corona. This reflects the same line that has also been taken in previous amending budgets, i.e. the perfectly correct choice that quick decisions are being taken here and now to ensure that jobs are maintained, that services are provided by the municipalities, that people's livelihoods are maintained. It's been the perfect choice. I find it very difficult to imagine what other choice would have been the right one. Similarly, when you look to the future, I am quite convinced that the choices are right in terms of economic policy. We can already see different figures from the world: not only has Finland been very successful in treating the disease itself, but it also seems that we are at the forefront of Europe in terms of the future recovery of our economy in this crisis. That is why I could actually say, President, as did our group president just now, that the results speak for themselves. That's just the way it is. That is why it is very reasonable that, in this situation, we should continue to pursue a revitalising approach, rather than retreating and curling up too early into the pits of economic adjustment, if that is what we can say. And then, when it is done, it must be done absolutely in a sustainable, socially just way, because otherwise, once again, we are creating a situation where, through cuts or other wrong measures, we will be causing major economic problems in the future. It is therefore also important to consider that the adjustment is done in a fair way and that everyone participates in it in such a way that only a small person does not have to pay, quite the contrary. But here, President-in-Office, the assembly also criticised the fact that the government was making permanent expenditure increases even before the corona, and that there were necessary improvements that were to be made. There was a desire to invest in the status of pensioners or in nursing qualifications or things like this. But at the time, we wondered. I had saved Mr Heinonen's presentations for Christmas 2019, when the Coalition Party itself presented a billion-dollar increase in the budget. I shall now wait for the reply of the Assembly to this Greek list, which is here, on what you will do with the increase in expenditure that you have presented yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u92	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u93	Madam President! Since I have now discussed government measures with the people of the United States, especially the people of the United States, in the province, the feedback from there has been largely positive, that the right things have been done and rightly invested in education and especially in those who have suffered from the corona. It has also been possible to invest in the needs of the industry. Madam President! I would like to mention a few bus projects and reallocations that emerged from the consultation of the Fairway Office and which are in the 21st budget for this year. Firstly, there is an increase of EUR 52 million in basic infrastructure management, including an increase of EUR 50 million from the envelope for 22 years. This is in line with the budgetary guidelines, which will increase the budget for this item to a good EUR 1.4 billion. The Committee considers it important that the level of funding for basic infrastructure management should continue to be ensured in such a way that the correction debt can be reduced in accordance with Plan 12 Transport in a long-term and planned manner. In other words, the implementation of the state transport system plan must also be in financial balance. In the 21st budget, the Parliament allocated appropriations to some basic infrastructure projects, but, on the basis of the report received, the committee would specify the allocation of appropriations as follows: For example, the EUR 500000 allocated to Lapland to improve the Tenniö bridge will be allocated to the renovation of light transport routes in Sotkamo Vuokat. This is because the Tenniö Bridge is in a private road area and this article cannot be used for that purpose. Well, then there were light traffic arrangements between Anttola — Entrance of the drones, vt 14, amounted to EUR 600000. It is targeted on the road kt 71 for light traffic arrangements between Herttuala and Viitamäentie. Here, too, there was a situation that there were several different destinations on this route and our indication was not precise and precise at the time. Now the Fairway Office has asked for a new clarification, and now it has been targeted in response to this point by the Ely Centre and the regional actors. Well, then there is the allocation of EUR 600000 for the improvement of vt 2 between vt 9 and road 232. There was also a need to clarify that it is now being placed in groundwater protection on road 232, which is part of the ‘Vt 2’ interface. So just this sort of focus on this allocation. In addition, EUR 300000 has been transferred to Article 31.10.31 to the Light Traffic Corridor in Parkano. This was also a more specific target, so that we can get to it. The committee has then registered that ‘the committee considers it important that a solution be found for the repair of the TEN-T at Savukoski, which can be adapted to the needs of There is an episode about this bridge that when we got the lists from the Fairway Office and then we got them from the Ely Centres, they didn't go hand in hand. There were differences. That is why I wonder whether the Fairway and Ely are talking to each other or whether it is a desire to be the master of either one and to determine what kind of investment is being made. There must be further clarification as to how these projects will be carried forward. Of course, Parliament's representatives also need to take their own initiatives to improve access and, of course, to other projects. And, of course, we always hope that they too will be well founded and that we can be united behind them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u94	Congressman Mattila's gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Since the melancholy corona months in Finland, we have moved a great step towards normal life. Vaccinations have progressed, the disease has faded naturally and the infections have dropped significantly from the dark days of winter. Unfortunately, the problems caused by the corona are not over. A special year has been seen in many unpleasant ways in the lives of Finns. For children and young people, one year in life is relatively bigger than for adults who have the perspective of adversity and adversity accumulated by life. In the lives of children and young people, remote school made it possible to attend school under exceptional circumstances, but it was already predictable that the habit would not be suitable for everyone. Not everyone has had the opportunity to receive the necessary doctrinal or mental support from adults with whom they were dealing in normal times in schools and educational institutions. The narrowing of the circle of life was also a hard experience for many young people when there were no friends with hobbies or with the school world. Social media and virtual contacts with friends are not enough to satisfy social needs. The ability of adults to cope has also been tested, and it has not always been possible to find the necessary support for children and young people who are in pain. It costs money to take care of the after-tails of the interest rate, which is still reflected in this amending budget. If the interest rate situation improves as expected, no additional funding for interest rate operations will be required in the autumn. The third draft amending budget proposes appropriations for several administrative sectors to offset the effects of coronavirus on children and young people. The appropriate and effective allocation of appropriations will be ensured through further preparation with municipalities and other experts in the field. An amount of EUR 3 million is proposed for preventive action by the police. As a secondary school teacher, I saw that school visits by police were necessary. It would be good for children and young people to have a positive first contact with the police, so that they would view the police as being on their side. The police have an important site to educate young people and guide them into the kind of conduct that each person would like to have. An amount of EUR 5 million is proposed for the administrators of liberal educational institutions to offset the effects of the corona virus situation. A total of EUR 64 million is proposed to mitigate the effects of the corona virus situation in education and training. Overall, it is proposed to allocate EUR 40 million to pre-school and basic education and early childhood education, EUR 15 million to upper secondary education and EUR 5 million to vocational education and training. It is proposed that EUR 4 million be allocated to universities and universities of applied sciences in order to strengthen guidance and student well-being. A total of EUR 39 million is proposed to improve access to substance abuse and mental health services. The need to improve access to mental health services is high. Even before the corona, access to treatment has been challenging, but the situation has become even more difficult during the corona months. This applies equally to substance abuse services. It is good that efforts are now being made to make things easier. Mr President! Although the opposition criticises the amount of expenditure and the return to the spending limits, I think it will accept these additional contributions of EUR 110 million for children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u96	Congressman Wallinheim, gone. — Representative Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u97	Madam President! Our position on this additional budget is reflected in the protest of the Finns-based, and ten statements have also been included in the objection, which have been activated in tomorrow's vote. Mr President! Over a year ago, the government broke the spending limits procedure, which has been going on for some thirty years. At the time of the recession, it was passed on, and it was a very important decision. It has stimulated, clarified and strengthened the economy in many ways. It is therefore a very serious matter for the government to continue to violate the spending limits procedure, for the time being. There have been promises that we will return to it, but this has not happened. Moreover, having abandoned the monitoring of the budgets of the Member States, for over a year now the government has been quite hilarious in taking advantage of this situation and under the pretext of the interest rate, without these constraints, increasing public spending far beyond what the interest rate would have required. The Finns of Peru are not opposed to replacing the consequences of the corona for businesses, citizens and municipalities. In some respects, we deplored the slowness of the government and the poor, failure of the targets, but the objective has been supported, and this has also been financed by debt, which we have accepted. On the other hand, we do not accept that the spending limits procedure is still frozen. When asked what we would like to cut off when we want to do it, the first priority is the amount of money to be given out of the country free of charge, which has increased by this left-wing government. In the first place, we should cut and replace the debt that has now risen and is even rising to an overall value of close to EUR 40 billion over two years. It is a huge amount, and yet, with a drop in growth very likely following rapid growth at a time of weak growth, such as the Bank of Finland predicted a growth rate of 1.3 per cent for the 23rd year, and when we know that in the past years since 2008, Finland's economic growth has been very weak, we cannot afford this kind of development. Therefore, this indebtedness, the risk of rising interest rates, the risk and the risk of increasing permanent expenditure must be carefully considered and measures taken in accordance with it must also be taken. Mr President! This additional budget includes one-off changes and increases in appropriations. We would have liked the government to have opened up this year's budget more broadly and looked for the funds that we have already raised in the protest of last autumn's budget report, and to have looked for cuts from there responsiblely, not from the basic security of the citizens, rather than from the central government's contributions, even though they were paid by the state far above the losses caused by the interest rate of the municipalities last year. That is the kind of budget we have. Mr President! Finally, the government still lacks employment measures. It has left the three sides, or indeed the social partners, responsible for all the decisions, and nothing can be done in that way. Experiments in the municipalities of employment seem to be a bit of a failure. It brings enormous bureaucracy to the municipalities, but it does not necessarily deliver results when results are obtained only by improving the conditions for private business to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u98	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u99	Madam President-in-Office of the Council! In my debate, I already drew attention to the fact that the Member of Parliament, Mr Guzenina, who is unfortunately not here today, gave the Parliament the wrong information when he said in his 29.5th release: ‘Aggregatingly, the government was making billioneuro cuts to human services. “ This has not been the case recently, nor has it been the case since. After Mr Guzenina himself first claimed something that was not true, that is, a little like moving the paint, then there was that own claim, the action of the coalition in his own claim, easy to criticise. In the same press release, Mr Guzenina stated in the following paragraph: ‘The operations services of the billionaires would be painfully affected by human sensitivity. “ That is absolutely true, but this statement by Mr Guzenina about the intention or desire to cut a billion people's services is not true. So Mr Filatov, who also spoke in the debate, would say that we are not cutting off the services of the unemployed. On the contrary, I personally believe that improving the services of the unemployed is a good way of promoting the employment of the unemployed. Madam President! Municipal elections are very close, but fortunately they are behind us. In these election debates, as well as President Marin, President Andersson, President Ohio and President Saarikko in every TV debate, they told us how the government has invested in countless good purposes. And here Mr Pierainen said that the people of the United States have been satisfied with these efforts in those provinces, and I believe that people across the board have been satisfied with the fact that important things have been invested in this country and in the discipline of the corona and since then. Why, though, did the Coalition Party win, even though so much has been invested? Personally, Mr President, I believe that the message of the Assembly that we cannot continue to invest more money in different good things and finance it with additional debt or tax evasion, the message of the Assembly that this road has been quickly completed, has come through. The public understood that more cake must also be grown in order to be able to distribute more cake. It cannot be broken down indefinitely by borrowing debt and tax evasion. I believe that this was the key to the victory of the coalition. It must now be said that the centre, at least on the steps of the halfway line, was also speaking in the same spirit, and, for example, in this debate today, the representative: In my opinion, my corner made a very good speech in which, in practice, it criticised the government for spending limits and called for a return to the framework. The only problem with the centre is that this has so far only been seen in speeches, not in actions. Then why did the biggest loser in the election, the Greens, lose the election? — The Centre lost more percentage points, but I say that the Greens were the biggest loser in the election when they lost both in comparison with the previous municipal elections and in comparison with the previous parliamentary elections, while the Centre was able to make a better result than in the last parliamentary elections. — The Greens have had a public debate on the reasons for their defeat, and I am not going to be very smart about it, but I cannot help but pay attention to one thing because it came up in today’s Helsingin Sanomat: under the last parliamentary elections, the Greens made a very flagrant policy with the educational savings of the previous government. Of course it was a bad policy, it is not a question of that, but the central government economy was forced to be balanced, and the government negotiations also led to these savings in education and training, which were not, [The President knocks ] Madam President! I understand that we moved from a fast-paced debate to a normal one, with a recommendation of seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u102	Here's what we're gonna do. — and Mr Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u103	Mr President! It is good to agree with what Mr Zyskowicz said about the fact that the cake must first be baked before it is distributed, and indeed this stage of baking and its acceleration — yes, we in this budget, to put the yeast in quite a number of places, so to speak, that our business and business are going to get started and that this cake can also be made. In this third amending budget, however, the main focus is still on interest rate measures and interest rate matters. After all, 2.2 billion dollars will be added to this. People have also been taken into account here, i.e. quite a good investment is in early childhood education, in support of vocational education and also in higher education and research, especially what has been the disadvantage of the corona. This area of OKM totals about 64 million, and this is a very important part. The increase in transport is 52 million, and in fact next year's budget framework is already being eaten on this side of the year. Here Mr Pierainen well went through these changes, which have been put forward here, and here too is the wish of our committee that it is considered important that these investments be continued on a long-term and planned basis, in accordance with Plan 12 for Transport. This is also accompanied by this reform of the so-called allocation funds, as has been pointed out, which means that Sotkamo will have about 500,000 targeted routes for light traffic and then, indeed, between Anttola and Kulentinen, but also vis-à-vis vt 2. There's going to be a different focus on different locations. Here it is good to agree with Pierainen's view also that we would probably have a reason between Väylä and ely for a little more discussion and to seek a kind of interrelationship with elys. I remember at that time of Christmas when I myself received some rather harsh criticism from Ely directly about the money that was distributed by the state, and that was, in my opinion, totally unreasonable. This should be better between officials and representatives. But it is a pleasure to mention here, as a representative of Parliament in Pirkanmaa, that EUR 300000 has also been transferred here to develop the light traffic routes of Parkano Käenkoski. All Members of Parliament in our region have been very active in bringing it forward. On this transport issue, I would also like to point out that: At the time of the Nordic Council, Sweden joined this TEN-T network. They then looked from Stockholm to Haparanta, and I must say with great joy that Finland will also look at this Laurila-Tornio-Haaparanta gap when it comes to electrification, so this link is now possible, i.e. from Helsinki to Stockholm via Haparanta, within the TEN-T track, and it is worth applying for funding for this. There was a small negotiation with Mr Pierainen and it was stated that we cannot fail to mention this part of VR here. In other words, it is a very good thing that the nine-year contract is being applied for for VR's procurement, purchase and obligation contracts, with a mandate of 289 million, plus an authorisation for VR's wagon purchases of around 40 million, which, if the competition is successful, will also enable the domestic operator to make these wagons and, consequently, domestic employment. I very much agree with Mr Vähämäki's views on this battery cluster and its development, that is to say the emphasis on research resources and development appropriations on it and on the development of future energy solutions. These recovery appropriations have now been well spent on RD. Peat is a matter of our security of supply, and this is now a proposal of 30 million to make the situation easier for peat entrepreneurs, but I see that it is a matter of security of supply that we will also have follow-up measures and availability of peat and peat will continue to be guaranteed. Mr President! Then here is also a large part of the so-called anticipatory, or precisely this Finnvera Corporation export guarantee. If it happens, then 650 million more have been put into this, but it is not deliberately used, which is a reserve of funds. Furthermore, Mr President, in conclusion — the circle actually closes when we leave the area of OKM:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u104	Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u108	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u109	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, the proposals for statements under protest 1 have been activated in the central assembly and will then be put to the vote tomorrow in the form of a vote of support and a motion. Let me briefly go over what we are proposing here in protest. So the central point is that, of course, the government should go back to the spending limits, and there should also be no spending limits overruns through the additional budgetary procedure. The Government Programme should review all projects and remove those non-essential projects which, however, increase the permanent costs and costs. With regard to climate policy, the government should change its climate policy objectives to meet the EU's binding minimum levels in order not to weaken our country's competitiveness. This is also closely linked to our forestry policy, which is slipping away from national hands, and the main base of our export industry is under threat. In order to balance the economy, the representative: The Kankaanniemi raised these spending cuts well here and went over what our party’s priorities would be, what cuts could be made. I'm not going to go through this again. New joint liabilities should be refused, including new aid packages, and if this current aid package is to be made permanent, this too should be refused. Then again, if some of the projects from this approved aid package, which has already gone through, are to be carried out, they would have to have broad political support in order to be able to go through them here. On the public side, financial responsibilities should be cut and reduced, which is a key issue. It may be that we have far too many responsibilities piled up somewhere, and then we will never know it, and if a shock strikes Finland from the world, it may cause problems. The purchasing power of our citizens should be maintained and the competitiveness of our country improved. The cost of living would have to be reduced. It is perhaps central to the citizen's feedback that the cost of living and moving has disappeared, they have gone far too far. In this context, I propose to the government: ‘The Commission notes that the government’s economic policy is responsible for increasing government expenditure andresponsible for not contributing to the sustainable well-being of Finns. Reforms to strengthen employment and skills in the future have not been completed. No action has been proposed to improve economic growth in the long term. No measures have been taken to improve the purchasing power of people with low and middle incomes. The impact of climate action has increased and will continue to increase the cost of living and driving. Our forestry policy is slipping out of national hands, and the main base of our export industry is under threat. Parliament considers that the government has failed in defending national interests and in financial management and does not enjoy Parliament’s confidence.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u110	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u111	Madam President! Firstly, I support the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Vähämäki. This government has now had just over two years to deal with the affairs of the kingdom. We know that these last 15, 16, 17 months have gone through this corona crisis and have made it difficult for a variety of activities, but nevertheless the future should have been built instead of just living in the camera pictures where the government has been on account of this corona. We have not seen any briefings on the government's publication of employment measures, important economic policies, not to mention improving the purchasing power of people on low and medium incomes or making the costs of moving and living affordable. In fact, in recent months, forestry policy has become a new issue, which has now been taken over by the EU, almost hijacked, at national level, as part of EU policy. It's extremely dangerous. Central and southern Europeans are protecting Finnish forests so that we cannot use them for economic purposes. If this happens and the government continues to take this loose line in this matter, our future will be truly gloomy. That is why, in this motion of censure tabled by Mrs Vähämäki, we also point out that our forestry policy and, as a result, our key export industry is under threat. I expect the government to take this issue seriously and not to allow the foundations of the Finnish economy, the use of our renewable forests, as a result of green and other measures to fall into Brussels' decision-making powers. This is a really big deal in those provinces. In particular, the centre must be appealed to here, which should bear in mind that there are 600,000 forestry in Finland, 600,000 forest owners and a forest industry that employs — even those on the left — tens of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u112	Indeed, this was the intention and recommendation, the procedure for five minutes being the floor. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Your comment was fully justified. I hadn't noticed this recommendation. Mr President! In my previous speech, I was left in the green, but before that I would like to say to Mr Filatov that I am not convinced — a direct quote from you — of the ‘every trick’’s rationality in active labour policy. But I am personally convinced that, in terms of employment services, i.e. better service for every unemployed person, better catch-up and more personal advice, this kind of investment makes sense and contributes to the employment of the person concerned. As far as the Greens are concerned, I said that they have had a lively debate on the reasons for their electoral defeat, and I would like to point out one reason that has not been referred to in their debate, at least to the extent that it has been made public, and I cannot help not mentioning this reason because it was a good article in the Helsingin Sanomat of today. It is a matter of training fraud by the Greens. The Greens had a very flagrant campaign against the education savings of the Sipilä Government, of which I have already said that they were, of course, a bad policy and no one would have wanted to make them, but they had to be made up of savings and one government to find them, or, in fact, already in government negotiations. But in their campaign for the last parliamentary term, the Greens said that their condition for their participation in the government was to cancel the educational savings of all Sipilä's governments and, as I said, they were very hard hit by the school savings that had been made, and that is perfectly understandable, and I understand that it was also for their benefit in the elections. Well, then, what has been done with the training cuts? In today’s Helsingin Sanomat Dr. Janne Saarikivi, who is hardly suspected of being a member of the National Coalition Party, writes: “The Board has declared that it will carry out the honour of the training. “ ‘After the cuts of the Government ofJuhaSipila, no And still the final quote:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u117	All right, then, Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u118	Mr President! Improving employment is the opposite of cuttings — in other Nordic countries, high employment rates are commonplace. Saving Finnish well-being requires that more and more people of working age and able to work have access to their own work. It is easy to share money with good and important targets. Of course, the fact that there are important subjects, such as a therapeutic guarantee, where there is no way to find the will and money, is also surprising in the way the government operates. Instead, the Coalition Party would implement a therapeutic guarantee. Nor would the coalition cut off science, as the government is doing now, even though there seems to be money for everything else. All in all, there is reason to be concern about the future of welfare society services in this big picture. Without sustainable public finances, we will not have the best comprehensive school in the world, functional health services, elderly services, early childhood education and so on in the future. That is why I am very surprised that the government parties here are accusing the House of having to cut. Not at all. We are concerned that we want to save these services and Finnish well-being also in the future. In other words, when the government was not now able to change the course of economic policy that was expected of it, it means that future generations will be cut off, the conditions for the well-being of future generations, the services of future generations, by living out of control as a debt over resources. In other words, before sharing that money, there must be something to share, it must be done. The government forgets that well-being is born and that the cake grows from knowledge, hard work, work and enterprise. After the interest rate, there would have been a need for a change of direction, a change in the direction of economic policy, focusing on people's ability to make choices, to become prosperous by working and trying, to really make choices about background, wealth, etc. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u121	Like this. — And then Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u122	Mr President! The more you listen to the speeches made by several members of the Assembly, the more I become convinced that there are indeed many economic policy lines in the assembly. Of course it should be, I am not saying it, but just now, when I listened to Mr Vikman's excellent speech, which contains rather vague sentences, it does not help now but that you say that, regardless of the starting point, the coalition wants to secure the future of everyone, when realism is there, Mr Vikman, that you are proposing cuts to families, to those who have unemployment. It is not much to improve the chances for children who are in homes where mother and father are being cut unemployment benefit or housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u123	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u124	Madam President! In this illustration by Mr Vikman, we must first obtain or earn the money and then buy: For example, I would take buying a house or an apartment. If there is not yet enough money to buy directly with cash, and there is an affordable loan available and that will improve the quality of life through a new dwelling, is it not reasonable to do so? This is also the way to think about these things. In other words, improve people's quality of life and education, and the corona...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u127	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u128	Madam President! I'll start with two timely quotes. The first is as follows: ‘The most recent data are on the expected turnaround in the economy. Demand is recovering, employment is increasing and the interest rate gap is rapidly closing. The current economic upturn is an opportune time to support structural change in the economy and to strengthen public finances.” This is what Mikko Spolander, Director General of the Ministry of Finance, said in the VM press release published last Thursday. The second quote is here: ‘The mid-term decisions may lead to a later departure from the spending limits level without any consequences and the level of expenditure agreed This is a risk to the long-term and proactive decision-making culture on which Finland’s reputation as a reliable and decision-making actor is based.” This is what VTV’s Chief Inspector Sini Salmi said in Yle’s news on Friday. Mr President! When you compare these quotes with the policy pursued by the government, which is represented by the third amending budget before you today, you understand why we are concerned about the future of the Finnish welfare state in the meeting. The amending budget contains a number of expenditure increases, many of which are justified, such as the direct costs associated with the corona virus and the items of expenditure intended to support businesses, but the most important, i.e. a longer-term plan for the management of public finances, is missing. Since the government is now failing to do its job, it means that our ability to maintain the best comprehensive school in the world, functional health services, elderly services, early childhood education, smooth public transport and other services in society will be jeopardised. By knowingly breaking the budgetary framework set for itself and by maintaining accelerating indebtedness to finance the economic policy of its choice, the government also limits the operating conditions of future generations of decision-makers. And at the same time, the government in its own programme is committed to ensuring that the government does not live at the expense of future generations. Mr President! Of course, the government would have less than two years to make its course more responsible, but unfortunately the debate here on the return to the budgetary framework does not confirm the idea that this would happen. The government will no longer even explain its own economic policy, but will focus on attacking us in the coalition. In particular, the Prime Minister's Party, the SDP, has been hoping for a list of how the government could keep its goal for itself and remain within the framework of public finances. Questions have already been well answered in many previous speeches, but here is a further comment on how the government, if it so wishes, would be able to keep its promise of a more responsible public finances: 1) Restoring social security — savings of EUR 241.7 million for 22 years, and EUR 107.4 million for 23 years. 2) Implementation of the Employment Package proposed by the Coalition in the alternative budget — savings of EUR 422 million. 3) To implement the other spending limits in the alternative budget of the Coalition Group — once again EUR 312.5 million in savings. There are other ways, but after that, Mr SDP and the government, it is your turn to do something. We dare to make difficult decisions when there is a need for them. With these words, Mr President, I support the objection to this report by the Committee on Finance and the 11 statements contained therein.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u129	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u130	Madam President! Tempora, o mores! Back in the day, Cicero uttered the famous words, right times, right manners, when he meant the definition of sarcasmish foolishness. The Government Programme aims to halve peat production by 2030, but due to incompetence that situation is already in the pipeline. The third amending budget of the year allocates 30.6 million to entrepreneurs who give up peat production, although now we should understand the global importance of peat for Finland. The weekend was an opportunity to meet two entrepreneurs who were disappointed by the decision-makers. That is why I am now focusing on these debates. Another entrepreneur was also a national greenhouse entrepreneur of the long-line second generation. Her tomatoes, salads, and cucumbers grow 100 percent with growing peat. He doesn't see any other viable alternatives as a breeding ground. Hopefully, we know here that all the seedlings of Finnish coniferous trees are grown in growth peat, i.e. peat acts as a climate action, and you would think it is also suitable for the green left. As we grow in peat, we have the best carbon sinks, even significant ones, that our forests are currently being used in the negotiations in Brussels, even as carbon sinks common to the whole of the EU. This is a sad decision-making process. The text mentioned above is familiar to most of us in this Chamber, although reason has not come to the government. I would now like to highlight a more recent point of view in the light of the discussions I have had. Many of the decision-makers in this house do not necessarily know that peat and high-tech products processed from it will be export products to us in the future and, indeed, now. New innovations of peat origin are being developed all the time. Domestic top innovation in acoustic products is one such innovation. The conto-acoustic plate is made of surface peat, and the surface peat is a raw material in terms of pH. Patented processes have provided an over-the-counter, lightweight, easy-to-use acoustic disk that is suitable for a wide range of uses, i.e. not only to soften the sound world. These products go to a wide variety of public spaces, offices, day care centres, schools, but also to private house building. Purposes of use are almost limitless. At the same time, they are also well suited for furniture, even as a nest of Saimaan norps or, for example, as a last resting place, as an ash urn. These peat products are real ecological products made from natural material. These domestic innovations have already gained increasing interest abroad, and even this company is experiencing enormous growth in exports of these high-tech products. Based on the discussion, the entrepreneur has the greatest fear, not so much because of the end of the raw material, but because of the general paranoid and misconception of peat. Currently, the entrepreneur receives raw material from his own locality, but if the government blindly pushes down the peat lift, the more expensive product is available from countries where peat is classified as renewable, such as Sweden. But isn't this all absurd? Yes, we have the opportunity in this Chamber to define peat as being slowly renewable, as is the case in the EU. To date, we have not used peat, including all uses, any more than it has been renewed on an annual basis. The common sense needed for the debate on peat is needed now, and I would say that what Oras Tynkkynen calls for in his net positive thinking. We need to have a comprehensive discussion and not just stare at one small part of the whole thing. We live with peat in symbiosis just as we live with our forests and lakes. One third of the land area is peat-based, while 12% of the land area is peat-based. In many respects alone, our peat reserves are also security of supply issues. We, the Finns of Peru, have an objection to this report, a proposal for a statement of ten, and I will read it to you. ‘The Commission requires that the government’srecovery sector is seriously and irrevocably harmed,which would strengthen the economy’s energy self-sufficiency, the exchange — Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u131	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u132	Mr President! Here in the previous debate, among other things, Mrs Wallinheimo has raised the issues of how the coalition would work in such a way that spending limits would not be exceeded, contrary to what the present left-wing government is doing. The government has certainly comforted us by the fact that when there is the next government that makes the 2024 frameworks, it is said that the framework will be restored. I personally think that this reply from Mrs Wallinheim, among other things, is certainly not satisfactory for Mrs Lindtman, and I do not believe that I will be satisfied with what I will say next, but I will say anyway. I would like to criticise the fact that Mr Guzenina claims that we are cutting EUR 1 billion from human services such as education, day care, health care, child protection and so on. My own line has long been that it is more important to invest in basic services for people than in transfers. That is why I do not see the need to cut down on services. But you can cut income transfers. Think about how much, how many hundreds of millions a year or perhaps even billion a year we have improved people’s income transfers over the past ten years, for example. I myself take, for example, a transfer of income which is massive but whose benefit to those for whom it exists is, I believe, very small. I am talking about housing aid, which, for example, was criticised by Mr Viitane before that we were going to cut it. I have two graphic performances in front of me, and now I can't remember whether to show them, but maybe you can flash them like this. [The PresidentAnuVehviläinen :The means of observation are generally not available,but you are sure to be able to tell the question.]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u135	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I was just wondering if, according to current practice, you can get answers — thank you for having done so. That is very often what we have discussed in this Chamber with Mr Zyskowicz, and I myself have been dealing with a lot of those housing issues and have listened to a wide range of expert assessments on this particular issue. Some of the evaluators say, however, that such an immediate effect that housing allowance would only go for the benefit of landlords and would increase the price of housing, necessarily not very strongly, meaning that there is not quite an unambiguous view of this. And another thing that always surprises me in the politics of the coalition is that the housing allowance is ready to be cut but, at the same time, it is not ready to support the construction of affordable homes for people. In other words, the Coalition Party very often takes a rather snoopy view of these specific types of aid schemes of the State Housing Fund,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u137	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u138	Madam President! This amending budget is, as has been said, still an interest-bearing budget. In many ways, these increases in appropriations, which are included in this amending budget, make up for and prevent the damage caused by the interest rate. As far as the interest rate is concerned, the situation is already looking reasonably good, even though there may still be adversity with regard to the disease. The government has rightly remembered the importance of work and the economy for the future of our country. A new increase is possible only through work and entrepreneurship, and in this way the long-term need for debt and tax increases will also be curbed, and it will even be possible to reverse the trend towards, hopefully, a reduction in taxes. It is clear that we are already paying enough and too much taxes. It is good that the government is currently preparing measures to increase employment and the availability of skilled labour. That's what we're waiting for. This amending budget includes additions to the Academy of Finland to boost research and development and to Business Finland to boost key sectors. There is a shortage of experts in our country, as has already been said several times in this debate. Mr President! The ancient philosopher Aristotle in his day stated that the state exists to guarantee a good life, not just life. From a good life's point of view, I will raise a few points from this amending budget. It is very good that the Committee on Budgets' report also highlights the wisdom and importance of taking account of the situation of children and young people in the midst of this corona period. It is clear that many children and young people need our support in coping with the crisis. During the interest period and, in fact, even before the corona, we have received happy news that, after a long downturn, there has been a slight upward trend in the birth rate and that has now been strengthened in some places during the corona period. This direction should be strengthened by a positive family policy, which the government has adopted, among other things, through family leave reform in support of the well-being of families. In this way, we can contribute to one of the greatest challenges facing our society when demographic change makes access to labour and the financing of well-being difficult. Mr President! This amending budget includes an increase of EUR 111 million to mitigate the negative impact of the interest rate situation on children and young people. The Committee on Finance points out that there have been significant differences in the incidence of the corona virus epidemic between municipalities and regions. This will also have different impacts in different regions, and it is important that these support measures focus on where they are needed. The impact of support measures for families and increases in education must be monitored, and otherwise we must be prepared to take further action if the situation so requires. Mr President! EUR 39 million will be allocated to support measures for children and young people in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Some of this goes to improving the availability of mental health services and some to improving services related to the treatment and rehabilitation of people with substance abuse problems. In this context, it should be noted that the development of safety nets for children, young people and families, which also have shortcomings in normal conditions, must continue. For example, the concrete everyday support of families with children — the home service of families with children, or the so - called old - time housekeepers — is still too much behind the threshold in many municipalities. By developing and improving these preventive services, we can avoid deepening the problems. The use of parental drugs is one of the most common reasons for child welfare clients. There is still a need to create a way of reducing the use of drugs, both alcohol and drugs, in society as a whole. Alcohol alone causes a billion - dollar decline for society each year, not to mention all the suffering that alcohol causes. But it is good that the government with this amending budget will respond to the need for substance abuse services. As a whole, it is valuable that the situation of children, young people and families and their need for support are rightly addressed here,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u139	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u140	Mr President! Children and adolescents have suffered unduly from the coronavirus situation. The distance school and the reduction in social contact have been mentally hard places for young people, which have caused stress and stress, and have weakened their daily lives. In order to alleviate these handicaps, it is important to target funding, and that is what this additional budget will do. The appropriate and effective allocation of appropriations will be ensured through further preparation with municipalities and other experts in the field. The Corona virus epidemic can cause far-reaching learning and well-being deficits, the extent and impact of which are very difficult to assess at this stage. It is therefore important to assess the need for increased support measures in the future. The effectiveness of student and student care and the good availability of mental health services in school health care must be ensured. Mr President! It is important to support entrepreneurs in the peat sector and to react appropriately to changes in the sector. Several articles of the amending budget provide direct support to peat entrepreneurs and peat companies, but also promote the orderly transition of peat enterprises and entrepreneurs to new business, as well as the re-employment and training of entrepreneurs and workers. Money will also be available for the peat sector from the EU's just transition fund. The creation of support schemes for peat entrepreneurs is necessary because the energy use of peat is falling faster than anticipated, which has led to a situation in which there are no comparable business conditions in the peat sector. The production of peat for growth and drought must also be safeguarded in this change. Mr President! It is important that Finnvera’s export guarantee and special guarantee activities are capitalised. Ensuring the continuity of Finnvera's export guarantee operations is essential. Funding will also be directed to a number of important transport projects, of which I would like to mention separately the bridges of Kirjalansalmi and the Helsinki Strait in Parainen. The road manager of the Ely Centre in Southwest Finland already praised the fact that this urgently needed renewal money was finally received.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u141	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u142	Madam President! I will start with what Mr Kiviranta mentioned there, i.e. the bridges of Kirjalansalmi and the Strait of Hossuundi are very important for the construction of Finland, for example. It should be remembered that if the concrete does not move from there, the construction industry in Finland will stop here in a few days. That is what I have been told and probably many others, so this was a very important investment. This third amending budget is still quite far from an additional interest rate budget. That is where I looked at these vaccination situations, and this amending budget has more than 220 million to buy additional vaccines. More than 55 per cent of Finns have already received their first vaccination and more than 15 per cent have received two doses, and this is really great.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-22-ps-82.u143	Thank you, Mr President — and the honourable Member. I would have liked to say to Mrs Viitanen that, of course, housing has an impact on prices, but I believe that demand also affects prices and housing support affects demand. I do not know where Mr Viitanen has drawn his economics from, but I wonder if he does not trust the effect of the supply and demand law on price formation. On the other hand, I admit that if there is a radical change in housing aid, as I think it should, it will require some kind of transitional period, because the market will not adapt to the new situation in a moment. I know that there is a study — at least one study — which tells us that housing allowance would not affect the price of rented housing. I don't trust this investigation. I'll be honest with you. I pointed out that Kojamo’s business, for example, has gone so well that its course development has improved by over 100 per cent over three years. Do Mr Viitanen and others really think that the housing allowance for the business of these rental housing communities does not affect at all? These communities themselves, when marketing themselves as a good investee, have drawn attention to the fact that we now have a government in the country that is hardly going to cut the housing allowance, so this information also supports their business. After all, part of the housing allowance paid by Kela goes directly to the landlords. I think it's about hundreds of millions. Do you think Mr Viitanen thinks that even these rental dwellings would not be affected by the cut in housing allowance? Does Mr Viitanen think that when hundreds of millions of rents for low-income people — that is, hundreds of millions — are paid directly from Kela to the owners of the dwellings, if we were to cut the housing allowance, these owners would demand and receive the former rent even if they received less from Kela and would therefore require the difference from the tenant? Do you think so?
