ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-25.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 3/2021 vp. The validity of the Regulation is now decided. — Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, represented by Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-25.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerns the Government regulation on the temporary limitation of the opening hours of restaurants in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. The report is unanimous. The Government Decree has been adopted on the basis of a provision on the temporary closure of restaurants. It is valid until 28.3.2021. Since the Regulation has already entered into force on 9.3.2021, it is now an ex post review of the Regulation, which is based on Article 23 of the Constitution. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there is no legal obstacle to the entry into force of the regulation. The committee therefore proposes that the regulation should not be repealed. The main content of the regulation is a list of areas where feeding establishments must be kept closed to customers. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs repeats its comments already made in connection with the previous reading of the law: Firstly, the limitation of the closure of catering shops to areas in the process of spreading and accelerating is only reflected in the explanatory statement and not in the legislative text at all. Secondly, the committee has also called on the Government to consider the possibility of narrowing the territorial scope further than regional division. The committee continues to stress the need for a more subtle demarcation of the territorial scope in the future. Thirdly, according to the committee, it could be justified to provide for restrictions by type of nutritious business. The committee has drawn attention to a more differentiated approach to the different types of feeding business in the future. In spite of these criticisms, the committee therefore proposes that the regulation should not be repealed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-25.u3	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-25.u4	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Rinne, for the presentation, and thank you for having led us quickly to this urgent matter. Here are a few things that will also affect future restrictive measures if they are to be taken. One of the points raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as has been the case in the past, is the need to apply these restrictions more precisely on a regional basis. Although the quality and potential of the province, the region and the municipality were examined here, there are still no more sophisticated areas in use. Many experts, when speaking in committee, raised this finer line. It is therefore important to take this into account in future regulations if they are needed. There was also talk in committee about these restrictions, that as soon as the necessary reasons no longer exist in the regions concerned, these restrictions will also be lifted as soon as possible. In committee, we also drew attention to the various companies and their profiles, and it is desirable that these different companies, the types of nutritional businesses, should be taken into account in the future.
