ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8.6.2021. In the debate, Mr Lundén, supported by Mrs Ritva Elomaa, has tabled an objection to the proposal and proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8.6.2021. In the debate, Ritva Elomaa, supported by Mikko Lundén, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u5	The fourth item in the order of business is the election of the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament. The Assistant Ombudsman shall be elected for a period of four years starting on 1 October 2021 and ending on 30 September 2025. Representatives have been given an extract from the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which includes the committee's assessment of the person who came forward. The application for the post has been seen in the Central Office. The election will take place like the election of the President. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. The ballot shall contain only the name of the person to be elected, so clearly stated that there shall be no confusion about the person intended. The other kind of ballot will be rejected. The election will be held using one urn. The representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn in the order of roll call and in such a way that the contents of the flag are not visible. In the election ceremony I would ask the following representatives: Kristiina Salonen, Ville Tavio, Jukka Kopra and Mikko Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u6	The result of the vote shall be declared.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u7	When Dr Pasi Hölönen has received more than half of the votes cast, he has been elected as Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman for a term of office beginning on 1 October 2021 and ending on 30 September 2025.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u8	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. Now, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 1/2021 vp, the position on the report will be decided. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niiko, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. — Debate, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u16	We shall now proceed to the round of It begins with representative Judgments. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u17	Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has unanimously been able to agree with the broad lines of the report. It does not, of course, remove the differences of emphasis between the groups, but underscores the understanding of how a common view of the key lines of foreign and security policy is still an important issue for Finland that strengthens our security and influence. This is supported by the role of the Parliamentary Observatory in the report process, as the committee stresses in its report. The Social Democrats agree with the emphasis and views of the report on comprehensive security and the way in which the world situation requires us to be prepared, alert and influenced. Nuclear weapons, climate change, biodiversity loss and global pandemics are existential threats to humanity as a whole. As such, they have also been duly taken into account in the report. Although the new threats to large-scale security have not arisen from military use of force and cannot be resolved by military means, we have seen the return of traditional power policy in our neighbourhood too. It follows that we too must be prepared, both by national action and by international cooperation, to prevent armed conflicts and situations which endanger Finland's security and the functioning of society and Finland's exposure to military conflict. The development of Finland’s defence capability is outlined in more detail in the Defence Report prepared on the basis of the report. It is supported by extensive international defence cooperation, where our cooperation with non-aligned Sweden, like Finland, plays a key role. On the Finnish side, we do not set limits on how far we can go in cooperation with Sweden. We do not use training in defence cooperation for demonstrations, even though such efforts exist. The only signal value of the international exercise is that it tells us that we are using the expertise and cooperation that it has developed to strengthen the credibility and ability of our own defence capabilities. For us, the central forum for cooperation is the European Union, whose common security and defence policy we are fully involved in and which still has a great deal of work to do in its development. In a situation where many countries and ultra-nationalists openly or effectively undermine multilateral rule-based international cooperation, we need the EU's leadership in defending and strengthening this cooperation. There must be no doubt about the Union's commitment to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Security requires us to be comprehensive in terms of security of supply, cyber security and safety in general. Care must be taken to ensure that Finland remains a country that does not create internal dividing lines that distinguish and contrast which create insecurity and which could be exploited beyond our borders. Safety is not only a precaution, it must also be an active influence. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of proactive participation in the work to halt climate change and the loss of nature, as well as respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. All of this is also the prevention of military conflicts. These challenges can only be met in a sustainable and successful way through extensive multilateral rule-based cooperation. The report deserves particular attention from what is being done at the UN, the Council of Europe and the OSCE. It is important for Finland, which implements a human rights-based foreign policy, to react consistently to the use of force policy and human rights violations wherever they occur. The response must not only be an expression of moral indignation, but must be based on consideration as to how best to influence the cessation of violations and the accountability of those responsible. The use of dialogue and diplomacy is particularly necessary in an international context characterised by high-power tensions. The nuclear powers are also modernising and developing their nuclear systems. Accession to the UN Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which entered into force in January, is also an open way for Finland to contribute to the real disarmament to which nuclear powers have committed themselves in the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Weapons control and e.g. The regulation of autonomous weapon systems is also properly reflected in the report and the report. In a world of irreversible interdependence, no one can pretend to live in a bird’s home. We in Finland understand this and trust that by keeping our own affairs and capabilities in order, we will also be able to make our expertise and cooperation available to international cooperation and to make a constructive contribution to solving common problems in a way that strengthens the security of all. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u18	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u19	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! After the last parliamentary elections in April 2019, the parliamentary groups were asked whether they were ready to support the Finnish foreign policy line established in the latest reports. The Finns answered the question of the then Government Confessor Antti Rinte: ‘We support the close and long-term parliamentary cooperation in foreign and security policy, and we have prepared the foreign policy line established in the reports.’ Mr President! The objective of close and long-term parliamentary cooperation is very much to be welcomed. Today it serves continuity in situations where power changes, because Finland must have only one single foreign policy. Genuine success stories can be found in Finland’s foreign policy over the years. Finland itself is a success story. However, with changing governments there may be significant differences of emphasis in the reports, and there may be differences of opinion in these priorities. In the latest report on foreign and security policy, the Government emphasises the international rule-based system and its institutions. The starting point is a value-based foreign policy, which focuses on setting goals and declaring them from the perspective of global responsibility. It should be noted, however, that the international system of multilateral agreements has been shaken for a long time in many respects and that the policy of force has become increasingly involved. Finland itself has also become increasingly involved in internationalisation on its drawbacks, largely its own blue-eyedness. That is why the report raises many questions: Are the rules drawn up in the past working, or are they estranged from reality, and to what extent? What is our real opportunity to influence developments together with the Nordic countries and other like-minded countries and as part of the EU? Are the objectives set out in the report fully compatible with the national interest of Finland? If there is a gap between ambition and reality, we may run into conflict. The more emphasis foreign policy is placed on ideological considerations, the more questions need to be raised on the aspects of realism. Mr President! The UN system has not been reformed, the superpowers refuse to be judged by international courts, and arms control agreements are repeatedly violated. Although there are many positive developments, it must also be recognised that international institutions can only function properly as long as they are of benefit to the strong Member States. We have also expressed our concern that the economic and value community of the European Union is increasingly becoming a union of fiscal, debt and burden-sharing. In general, we need to be prepared for a rapid review of the rules, both in the EU and in international politics. The central global development, demographic changes in the population, has been left to little attention in the report. The ageing of the population in Europe, combined with the significantly younger population in the Middle East and Africa, the non-functioning societies and the lack of prospects, continues to increase the opportunities for large-scale migration. The impact of the migration flows of people who are poorly adapted to Western societies should have been considered in greater depth in the report. The report focuses on the security and economic dimensions of the Arctic as part of competition between the major powers. It should be noted, however, that a large part of our country is part of the Arctic and is therefore also directly concerned with foreign interests. This trend has not been sufficiently described in the report. Technological and scientific developments will influence many developments in a revolutionary way. However, the report dealt very thinly with these aspects, unlike, for example, the corresponding British review published in spring, where the theme played a much more central role. Mr President! These aspects and questions deserve careful consideration, among other things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u22	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u23	Madam President! The acceleration of major power competition and its impact on international policy have weakened the security situation both globally and in the neighbouring areas of Finland and Europe. There are no signs of a slowdown in foresight, confrontation and power politics. There is no hope of a return to a period of post-Cold War cooperation. We cannot base our foreign policy on a longing for the past or an attempt to maintain outdated structures. The challenges facing us are wide-ranging and concern both traditional defence policy and, for example, cybersecurity and climate change. We need to consider how best we can succeed in the new international context. We must understand the root causes of this change, monitor and analyse the actions of others and anticipate possible developments. This requires an open-minded approach to different options, the use of research in decision-making, and a wider societal debate on Finland's foreign policy. The Assembly therefore agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that there is a need to discuss foreign and security policy more frequently in this Chamber. As the committee's report also states, the corona crisis has shown to be effective in ensuring the vital importance of crisis management for our society. We are expected to continue to face unexpected disruptions and threats, which require even faster and more flexible measures to respond to. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party considers that the crisis management system should be strengthened. Mr President! The report takes as its starting point a strong value-based approach. Promoting human rights, the rule of law, democracy, peace, freedom, equality and equality is important in all international activities in Finland. The Coalition Party emphasises the importance of values in Finland's foreign policy, especially at a time when open society and liberal democracy are being challenged from many angles. Russia is seeking to restore its former superpower by means of a power policy, and social development in the EU's neighbourhood is moving in an authoritarian direction, the latest example being Belarus' action against international agreements. Realities must be recognised. The traditional dimensions of safety have gone nowhere — quite the opposite. From the point of view of the great powers, we are located in an area of strategic importance, where tensions are also reflected. We underline the fundamental importance of hard security for Finland: ensuring Finland’s independence and territorial integrity. We do not want to build our security on weapons, but all options must be in place. In the opinion of the Coalition Party, one important factor for Finland's security would be NATO membership. The reports on NATO are more real-time reports on the current situation than forward-looking and forward-looking policies. NATO is the most important player for Western security. Despite the fact that Finland is not a member of NATO, Finland has become part of the Western community of values and security as a result of its membership of the EU. In an increasingly unpredictable world, co-operation with the same minds is emphasised. Finland is an integral part of the Western security community and this should have been raised more strongly in both the report and the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There must be no confusion about this. We're not going back to the gray zone. Finland must also do its utmost to strengthen the EU's foreign and defence policy and cooperation between the EU and NATO. The Coalition Party has therefore proposed in its indicative programme that, in the long term, we should be prepared to look at combining the tasks of the EU and NATO in defence matters. In addition to qualified majority voting and constructive abstention, we have also proposed the creation of a security policy body for the EU. Madam President! A small country such as Finland cannot afford to fall from the pace of technological development. When hybrid and cyber-influencing means change rapidly and are innovative, we need to be able to act in the same way. Finland must prepare for new influence companies at both national and EU level. In order for the EU to cope with global competition, including against China, the EU must invest in digital and technological development. While we are forced to prepare for serious challenges and develop new capacities, the importance of dialogue and cooperation must be underlined even in difficult times. These are the long-term characteristics of Finland's foreign policy, which do not age.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u24	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u25	Madam President! Finland’s foreign and security policy is characterised by continuity, predictability and broad consensus. Our country's foreign and security policy is based on good bilateral and international relations, a strong influence on the EU's common foreign and security policy, multilateral cooperation and credible defence. With regard to foreign policy, we want to ensure that there is no threat to our country, and defence policy keeps the threshold high for a potential threat. The seamless cooperation of foreign policy decision-makers and parliamentary cooperation in foreign policy strengthen our international position, security and well-being. This is demonstrated by the unanimous response of Parliament to the report on foreign and security policy, so I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for their unanimous parliamentary report. Internally united and cohesive society is stronger and more ready to face external challenges and threats. The change in the operating environment is reflected in particular in the increased competition for power, the challenge of a rule-based multilateral system and the threats related to cybersecurity and hybrid influence. Together with other democracies, Finland is defending a multilateral rule-based system, strengthening the UN's capacity to act and respecting international law. The Central Parliamentary Group considers that improving cybersecurity requires closer cooperation and exchange of information between authorities and a clearer picture and leadership. Finland and the European Union must also strengthen their cyber-self-sufficiency in terms of technology. The new beginning of relations between Europe and the United States will not relieve the European Union of its own responsibility to develop strategic autonomy — its own capacity to be responsible for the security of the continent. The pandemic has reminded us of the importance of ensuring security of supply and self-sufficiency in many sectors. Security of supply needs to be improved at both national and European level. Mr President! Finland’s security is particularly linked to the development and cooperation of our neighbouring regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u26	Mr President! Over the decades, we have seen that, despite our northern geographical position, we are not immune to world politics. Sometimes it is important to rise from the magnificent cliffs of the Baltic Sea even higher to look at the wider world. The report sets our foreign and security policy as a goal of a more stable, proactive and secure world. We cannot just focus on traditional military threats, but modern foreign and security policy thinking is strongly involved in adopting a broad concept of security. Climate change, biodiversity loss, pandemics, economic crises, increased inequality and cyber threats are examples of challenges that threaten global stability and peace. The report describes Finland’s operating environment well as part of an increasingly interdependent world. Mr President! The report strengthens the Government Programme's line on the human rights-based nature of our foreign policy. As defenders of the rule of law, democracy and the rights of women and girls, we already have strong groundwork done. The report describes a human rights-based foreign policy as a policy that consistently evaluates and takes into account the impact on human rights in different policy areas. Finland should further strengthen the human rights obligations imposed by international agreements and by concrete means support the implementation of human rights and their defenders. It is important that the ongoing report on human rights in Finland deepens our approach further. This will brighten our profile as a human rights defender as we approach our potential through the UN Human Rights Council. Mr President! Regrettably, security interests and human rights are often contrasted or undercut. Let us reflect the dynamics between the realisation of human rights and other security interests, for example in recent European events: actions that violate human rights and international law in Russia and Belarus have increased instability and threats in our region. What about China, whose economic and also military power is growing in places at the expense of decent working conditions, minority rights and citizens' freedoms? It is important for Finland to emphasise the role of international law and the multilateral rule-based system in addressing the challenges facing the world. By strengthening the common rules of play and the international institutions and their capacity to act, they will be better able to contribute to the objectives of peace and thus secure Finland from the potential security threats and arbitrary power policies of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u27	Madam President! Finland’s foreign and security policy is based on human rights. This is the first time this has been stated in the report on foreign and security policy. Finland will assess the implementation of human rights in all its international activities and decide on the basis of human rights assessments. This is the right line, because human rights are not a matter of opinion, but a part of the dignity of everyone everywhere. Human rights must be reflected in development policy. Finland must make a more determined contribution to the realisation of women's and girls' rights, to democratic education and to quality education. The human rights-based approach must be reflected in mediation. For example, Finland must act to put an end to the oppression of the Palestinians and finally recognise the Palestinian State. Finland must support the legitimate aspirations of the Kurds for democracy and autonomy. Turkey's attacks on the Kurds and its repression against the Kurds in Iran must be strongly condemned.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u30	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u31	Mr President, värderade talman! In foreign and security policy, the starting points of the RKP and the Swedish parliamentary group have always been very clear. Foreign and security policy is much more than arms and joint exercises, although unfortunately the action of the major powers has taken more attention to the issue of tough security. Foreign and security policy is an international cooperation in which the parties can look beyond their own borders and beyond their own time. It's the ability to take responsibility for difficult things. It is our strong message that Finland in every context aims to promote universal human rights and defend the rule of law, democracy and gender equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u32	Madam President! The security policy environment has changed significantly in recent years. Military tensions and uncertainty have also increased in our neighbourhood. In particular, developments and actions in Belarus have been strongly on the agenda over the past year. Security threats are increasingly diverse and are not only created by traditional threats, but also by international terrorism, uncontrolled immigration, trade wars and cyber and information attacks. Multiple threats can be addressed on the basis of the principle of overall safety. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament welcomes the fact that the overall security approach and the various threats have been well taken into account in this committee's report. On the other hand, the report and also the report deal with certain aspects far too lightly. A key example of these is terrorism. Similarly, the response to hybrid threats remains fairly common. On the other hand, there is a very detailed focus on climate threats. The Government's ideological priorities are reflected in the report, which is not necessarily appropriate from a security point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u33	Mr President! The Government's report on foreign and security policy has now received a thorough examination from Parliament. I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for its expert report and also the other committees for their familiarity. I would also like to express my thanks to the parliamentary monitoring group set up by Parliament and its chairman. It is clear that a similar arrangement is also needed for future reports. I agree with the view of the committee that it is valuable that foreign and security policy guidelines can be adopted with a broad consensus. The process of drawing up the UTP report, including consultation with citizens, has provided opportunities to discuss foreign and security policy further. The aim of our foreign and security policy is clear. We want to strengthen Finland's international position, safeguard the independence and territorial integrity of the state, strengthen Finland's security and well-being, and maintain the functioning of society. The key is to strengthen security both in Finland, in our neighbourhood and in Europe and in the wider world. All these levels are important and linked. The importance of cooperation and shared responsibility is becoming increasingly important as global challenges grow. For the first time, the report has stated that Finland's foreign and security policy is based on human rights, which means assessing the impact of human rights on all foreign and security policy activities. The preparation of the human rights policy report will specify the objectives and policies of a human rights-based foreign and security policy. The emphasis on human rights is consistently accompanied by Finland’s candidacy — and hopefully future membership — at the UN Human Rights Council for the period 2022 to 2024. The security situation in our neighbourhood continues to be unstable, as we saw in Russia's concentration this spring of considerable military force on Ukraine's territory and its proximity. The major power race is intensifying, which requires Finland and the EU to take a position in the new political, economic, technological and value-related competition. Finland’s foreign and security policy is characterised by continuity, but as the operating environment changes, new emphasis has also been placed on, among other things, the fight against hybrid threats — which has been addressed here — and the necessary resilience and cybersecurity. Finland’s interest is an international system based on rule-based principles. However, it will continue to be challenged from many directions. The return of the United States to multilateral cooperation with President Biden is perhaps the most important issue since the report under discussion. We have seen the United States return to the Paris climate agreement and continue the New Start Agreement with Russia, which restricts strategic nuclear weapons. Cooperation and the importance of shared responsibility are emphasised in addressing global challenges such as climate change, new technologies and pandemics. Mr President! Finland supports the UN system and aims to strengthen the role, efficiency and capacity of the UN. The EU must continue to play an important role in shaping global structures. Nordic cooperation to strengthen the rule-based system can be further intensified. This is a key theme in the Nordic cooperation that Finland will be chairing this year. In recent years, Finland has increased and deepened international cooperation opportunities in foreign, security and defence policy. Cooperation on foreign, security and defence policy is being conducted bilaterally, particularly with Sweden and now increasingly with Norway. The European Union is the main channel of influence and security in Finland's external relations. Finland wants to develop the EU into a more powerful global player. Finland has long contributed to improving the efficiency of EU foreign and security policy-making. One of the models we have advocated is the possibility for the High Representative of the EU to delegate tasks on a case-by-case basis to the foreign ministers of the Member States. This has happened, including in Finland. Finland is engaged in extensive, practical and mutually beneficial partnership cooperation with NATO. The continuation of NATO's open door policy is central. Cooperation between the EU and NATO will add value, for example, in combating hybrid threats or improving cyber security. Peace building through mediation, crisis management and arms control remains a priority. As far as nuclear safeguards are concerned, Finland will participate as an observer in the first meeting of the Parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in January 2022. As far as crisis management is concerned, I would like to draw attention to Parliament's support for strengthening Finland's participation in crisis management within the framework of the UN and the EU, and particularly in Africa. These are the objectives we will be implementing in the coming months and years. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Parliament for its good cooperation and constructive spirit in the preparation of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u34	Minister Kaikkonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u35	Mr President! To begin with, thank you very much to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the good work that has been done on this report and also thank you for the quality of the group debate on this issue. This report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UTP report is comprehensive and also highlights the most important sections of the report for the defence administration. In the preparation of the defence report, we will carefully review the content of the report and this feedback debate. In this brief speech, I would like to highlight a few of the most common points regarding the preparation of security reports and the role of the defence report as part of this whole. That is the next step after this UTP report. I think it is important that this report by the UaV has highlighted the practice initiated during the previous term of government and pursued by the current government, which first provides a report on foreign and security policy and, after its overall examination, sets out the defence policy as a whole. This was originally the idea in relation to the timetable that both could have been dealt with already during the spring, but the corona has slowed down the work of Parliament. And since this UTP report is only now in the Chamber, it is no longer meaningful to bring a defence report to the House just under the summer break. It is better to bring it to the beginning of the autumn season, and this is the plan at the moment. As such, I believe that the preparation has progressed quite constructively and well, and I would say that the work is at the end of the line. This defence statement is closely linked to the UTP report. According to the Government Programme, the situation picture of the UTP report and the analysis of the operating environment have also guided the preparation of the Defence Report. The UTP report and the defence report were partly drawn up in parallel. The cross-administrative preparation of officials enabled the UTP report to be taken into account from the start of our writing process, as well as the forum to monitor that the reporting guidelines are sufficiently consistent with each other. For the second time, a separate defence report has proved to be a workable solution, which is also in line with the reporting practice of Western democracies. The Defence Report deepens the examination of this UTP report from the point of view of defence policy and military defence, and this is actually the key added value that a separate defence report brings as part of the overall security report. We also believe that there are no contradictions between these reports. The special feature of the defence statement is long-term. The development of defence capabilities is quite time-consuming: we talk about a decade or decades rather than some years. This long-term approach has been well expressed in the opinion of the Committee on Defence on the UTP report. It states: ‘In the statement of defence, a period of around 8 to 10 years has elapsed and this statement of defence has been These text sections of the Defence Report have been discussed in detail in a good monitoring group and the comments made by the Monitoring Group have been very much taken into account. This has brought clear added value. The development of defence capabilities requires national support beyond party boundaries and government terms. The assessment made in this report of the importance of parliamentary monitoring is easy to agree with. Perhaps with regard to these group speeches and the report, I would like to make just one final point. A lot of people raised the issue of cybersecurity, cyber defence, in their speeches. This will be dealt with a little more carefully and thoroughly in the defence report, perhaps even more naturally, and will then have the opportunity to go back to this topic in greater detail. I also appreciate the fact, Mr President, that the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the report on foreign and security policy was unanimous. It is a very good value and creates a solid line of action for foreign and security policy — even if perhaps the sharpest in the group statements were to be seen as slight nuances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u36	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to speak in response to the debate to stand up and ask for the floor with a V button. — And the debate will begin by Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u37	Mr President! As has been pointed out in these speeches, the European security situation is difficult to polarise, tensions have increased, but Finland's efforts are constantly increasing stability, predictability and, of course, dialogue, dialogue, and confidence-building measures. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred here to the fact that this human rights-based approach has become a new term, and indeed it has become — it is stressed that not only the security of states is essential but also the security of people. This was, of course, the starting point at the time when the OSCE system was created as the backbone of the European security architecture in the early 1990s, when human rights issues were also raised. Another key body is the Council of Europe, which also pays particular attention to human rights issues in Europe. I would like to ask the Minister: in this current situation, how do you assess the capacity and potential of both the OSCE and the Council of Europe to build a dialogue between the various parties in Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u38	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u39	Madam Speaker! The Finns of Peru respect and strive for a common foreign and security policy. Nevertheless, of course, we have clear disagreements, as has been the case here, for example, with regard to the Palestinian-Israel situation. In fact, like the group speaker from the KD, I think that this relationship with Israel should be developed in some way, because it is the only functioning democracy in the Middle East, and in that way cooperation in their direction. Even in these reports, the True Finns highlight and have pointed out that uncontrolled immigration is a clear external threat to the state, because large-scale migration means that criminals, military fugitives, even terrorists — such as this jihadist in Turku — travel to Finland and then increase this terrorist threat. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: when Al-Holin terrorists are here:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u40	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u41	Mr President! In the geopolitical transition today, quite a few of us see that Europe plays a role as a geopolitical loser. It is an important issue in terms of security policy, because no one really sees it as possible to go back to normal, and the crucial thing for us, of course, is what will happen to the development of the European Union and what will happen in the direction of Russia. Of course, we do not think it is a game of changer at international level in such a way that we can say on our own where we are going, but neither can we outsource our responsibilities, nor the development of the EU, nor the way we treat Russia at all. That is why we need to look for solutions, solutions in the direction of the EU, which also includes the need to see how relations between the EU and NATO make sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u42	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u43	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group, Mr Doomsman, for the whole process of this report. The various tone of the debate was expressed in these group speeches, but in any case it is important that this report is balanced and that the parties have found a common vision of foreign and security policy. It is a fact that military tension has increased in the world and in our neighbourhood, but it is also true that new types of threats are increasingly threatening. The Centre supports a strong and stable foreign and security policy line, where Finland acts as a bridge builder, maintainer of discussion, dialogue, trust in international agreements and builder of partnerships, both multilaterally and bilaterally. This report on foreign and security policy provides a good basis for the defence report,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u44	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u45	Mr President! Perhaps even in the round of group talks some thought was given to the role of human rights-basedness, and, on the other hand, it seems to be at odds with, as it were, hard security and real policy in particular. I myself think that this human rights-based approach is, to a great extent, also a real policy. Of course it is also fair, but it creates stability in the world, freedom in the world, makes the world a better place and also a security for a small country. One aspect of the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report was the issue of equality. We know that opposition to the rights of women and gender and sexual minorities has intensified both globally and also in Europe, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that equality cannot only be part of development policy, but must be widely reflected in Finland's foreign and security policy activities and analysis, and perhaps also as a stronger activity in these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u46	Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u47	Mr President! When you follow the individual wordings of the reports, for example, from 2004 to 2020, you might think that much has not changed, but when you look at the whole content, there has been quite a strong process going on. If we think about what has happened in practice, we already allow Nordic NATO aircraft to land at Finnish airports and landing stations in full weaponry. We accept that NATO officers are checking Finnish traffic infrastructure, including ports, that they are in good condition under the NATO host agreement. We once accepted that the NATO National Guard fighters came to Finland on their own invitation and that the US general, who led the Hankonieme invasion exercise, declared that we are here to show strength. Yes, Finland should be in the group that in every way tries to alleviate military and international tensions, and not in the group that wants to increase them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u48	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u49	Mr President, ärade talman! Human security is the idea that peace is something more than the absence of war or state security. I think that this human rights-based approach is precisely that we believe that conflict prevention also stems from the fact that people can live safe in democracies. I think it is very difficult to find ways against the behaviour of such authoritarian leaders at the moment and that support for NGOs and human rights defenders would be very central. I know that during the Finnish Presidency of the European Union, the Foreign Minister specifically raised the issue of human rights defenders. What are the chances that we can now, for example, give more support to the human rights defenders in Russia?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u50	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u51	Mr President! Many countries, including the United States, recently expressed strong support for Morocco's autonomy initiative in Western Sahara. The initiative has been assessed as a good basis for a realistic, fair and sustainable solution to the regional dispute over Western Sahara. Morocco is also a strategic partner for the EU. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister if Finland could now seek inspiration from our own history, namely the autonomous status of Åland, by giving our support to the Moroccan proposal, which offers a good opportunity for stability and peace and security in the North African region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u52	Representative Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u58	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u59	Madam President! At this stage, I must thank the committee for the fact that we were well placed to highlight the various threats and security aspects of this report and, above all, to remain united in these matters, and in that sense this was a very successful performance. As Vice-President Tuomioja mentioned, this is a common concern and a challenge for Parliament that we can demonstrate that consensus on these security issues. A few comments on this debate, on the group speeches: It was pointed out that more attention could have been paid to, for example, this technological development and the change in the world brought about by artificial intelligence. Secondly, this international terrorist threat and also the Arctic region, for example, which could have been more talked about. These are, of course, issues that will certainly require further consideration in the future. It is good that, as the Minister of Defence mentioned,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u60	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u61	Mr President! U.S. President Biden is landing in Europe today and staying here for over a week, very good. And I say that the career of cooperation between Europe and the United States in the next seven days will create its main reference framework for the context of this report. It must never happen again as it did two years ago, when Trump, Erdo. Putin agreed that the United States would withdraw from northern Syria: Russia took over so quickly that I think American pizzas were still to be eaten, and there was hardly anyone in Europe who called, even though of course the importance of the region is greater for Europe than Moscow or Washington. In this respect, Finland must now actively take forward the development of the Western security community. The main line is, of course, continuity, cooperation with the USA and Sweden, and we are behind it as a coalition to take this issue forward together. But I ask — Mr Haavisto in particular — why in this report:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u62	I will continue to remind Members of the one-minute speaking time. — And now, Mr Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u63	Madam President! The new era has come since Brexit for relations between the European Union and the Member States of the European Union and Great Britain. However, when we know that Scotland or the northern part of Great Britain is also interested in Nordic issues — Great Britain has always been very well aware of how, with the North Atlantic, Northern European security is developing – so how is the new EU relations after the Brexit in Britain and how will Finland itself build bilateral relations with Britain with this new situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u64	And at this point, Minister Haavisto, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u66	We'll take two more minutes to get to Secretary Kaikkonen. After that, we'll continue our debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u67	Mr President! In fact, I recognized from these that mainly the representative The question of the corner is most clearly on its own property, the question of Brexit. It has to be said that when, as a result of Brexit and as a result, relations between Britain and the EU are not in the best possible position at the moment — hopefully this will be a passing situation — the structures of EU-British defence cooperation are also lacking at the moment. As far as I am concerned, both on the EU side and on the British side, there is, in principle, a positive idea that we should build channels and ways of cooperation in this area, but it is not on top of the agenda. I believe that we will return to this, and I think that we should return to this. Britain is an important military player in Europe and it is essential that the United Kingdom and the EU have a common vision and cooperation in this area. As far as Finland is concerned, we also have cooperation platforms for the United Kingdom in the field of defence. For example, we have JEF and Northern Group cooperation and bilateral cooperation. When you asked what Finland should do in all this way, we should probably build a little in all sectors now or, let us say, work more closely towards Britain and make a little extra effort in that we will continue to have a key, Europe-centred influence on us as a good partner. I will also be working on this, and in fact I will be meeting a British colleague here in June.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u68	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u69	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all the parties for the parliamentary cooperation through which the report was finalised. The report clearly shows our government's emphasis on broad security. This will help to shift the focus away from the traditional core area of foreign and security policy, which the report should focus more on. The risk of a strong ideological approach is that the core focus of the foreign and security policy report will disappear. It is also likely to jeopardise the clarity of the report in terms of ideological and ideological considerations. The report raises many important issues, but there is a risk that their concreteness will eventually be thin. However, despite some partial differences of opinion, the report gives a good overall picture of Finland's foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u70	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u71	Mr President! I will return to the point that we should be able to work together as a parliament, across the whole political field, find and identify our challenges and our problems. We now know them very carefully and collectively. Because of many different factors, Parliament has a very united position on these issues in essence. And there are two options: either we are supporters of a manifestist foreign policy and we call on it, or we are the executives of its foreign policy, which tries to negotiate, not only by making declarations, but by acting, to find common elements and common interests in this security environment in which the confrontation between the East and the West is unfortunately increasing tension also at our regional level and thus endangering the integrity of our own foundations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u72	Congressman Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u73	Mr President! In Finland, even referring to the history of Finland, there has been a long tradition of parliamentary consensus on key issues of foreign and security policy. It is undoubtedly a great value, which is now reflected in the unanimous report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But we also have some things where we have different differences of opinion or emphasis. Perhaps the most important of these has been our relationship with NATO or NATO membership. In this debate, Mr Kanerva expressed the idea that the European Union and NATO should join forces in military matters as early as May. I do not know whether the aim here is to transport NATO membership towards Finland through the EU door, and so I ask the honourable ministers: what are the ideas of these speeches by Mrs Kanerva and the Coalition Party in you?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u74	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u75	Mr President! It is in Finland's interest that we make our own security policy decisions from our own point of view – with respect for international agreements and cooperation and cooperation. Mr President! I would like to ask worthy ministers about a partnership with the United States. Now President Biden of the United States is coming to Europe — a rather wide-ranging visit to the highest British leadership, the Prime Minister, as well as the EU and NATO leaders, and this visit to Europe culminates in this summit in Russia. What expectations do Finland have for this visit? The United States has been separated from these international agreements in the past, but is there now a prerequisite for a stronger return?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u76	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u77	Mr President! Consensus tradition, the quest for unity and continuity are very important and valuable things. At the same time, however, it is great that they are not a reason not to have a fresh, good debate — thanks for the good speeches so far. It makes no sense, as the representative has said earlier, to put a great deal of security and tough security against each other. Climate change is a security threat, and even as a multiple threat factor, but the direct effects of climate change are not the only driving force for the future; it is also part of the geopolitical policy of climate change that we are experiencing a low-carbon transition in this world. In practice, the objective of one and a half degrees is to halve fossil energy over the next ten years. Quite a few economies depend on the export revenue of fossil energy — one of them is our neighbour, Russia. This equation does not work and there is a risk of either climate change mitigation failure
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u78	And Mr. Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u79	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Östman stressed that human rights violations in China, Iran and Saudi Arabia should be addressed and said about. That is what I should have done in my group statement, for example. But we also need to address insults elsewhere. Mr Östman raised the issue of Israel and Morocco. The Israeli settlements are contrary to international law. The occupation of Morocco in Western Sahara is clearly contrary to international law. When you spoke of the need to be consistent, when you criticise China, Iran and Saudi Arabia, in the interests of consistency, you must also criticise Israel and Morocco, among others. Mr President! The Government Programme states that Finland will not export defence materials to warring countries or countries that trample on human rights. It's an important and correct policy. I'd like to ask, shouldn't we go on buying guns too? Should we bring legislation in the direction of assessing also in the context of arms purchases?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u80	And Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u81	Thank you, Chairman! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the Finnish position. When the conflict between Israel and Hamas was at its worst, a clear exit came from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What I referred to in my own speech was the way in which the UN and, more often, the EU operate. Here are just a few more examples of how the UN has dealt with Israel throughout history: 80% of their sentences are against Israel. More than 60% of the sentences of the UN Human Rights Council are against Israel. Let me give one example: in 2007, when there was a genocide in Sudan, in which 200,000 people were murdered and 2 million were displaced, the UN Human Rights Council condemned Israel 22 times but only made one remark to Sudan. I wish we could as Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u82	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u83	Mr President! I think it is important that security reports in particular should focus on the issue and not hang up on ideological analysis, the relationship between reality and reality in some places is very political. Both in the report and in the report, the threats posed by immigration and terrorism remain marginal, even though the Committee on Administrative Affairs, in its unanimous opinion, addressed them in a comprehensive manner to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Instead of openly dealing with threats from the outside, it is claimed that there is a threat of exclusionary nationalism and exclusionary features. The emphasis is also placed on inequality, lack of visibility and the threats posed by the attraction of populist movements. However, when you look at reality both in Finland and, for example, in our western neighbour or in Central Europe, such a choice between these things cannot be regarded as very convincing. So I hope that this is more about political rhetoric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u84	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u85	Mr President! The interest period has made it difficult for women and girls to exercise their rights as well as for development cooperation on a wider scale. As we all know, improving the position of women and girls is one of the most effective ways of achieving sustainable development objectives. We in the meeting believe that Finland should focus even more clearly on improving the position of women and girls, in particular on safeguarding sexual and reproductive health and rights, and on education and training. Studies have shown that gender equality increases economic growth and also leads to more climate-friendly measures. Women's and girls' rights should be seen across the board as concrete objectives in Finland's development policy. The Government's annual report on development policy will be discussed further in the autumn, but I would like to ask now: how is the emphasis on women's and girls' rights reflected in the development cooperation after the Finnish corona? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u86	Congressman Salonen. — And Mr. Salonen... Oh, there, in the dead corner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u87	Mr President! An important point at the outset: the immediate military threat to Finland is not the only one we are lucky to see in this report either, and the security situation in Finland as a whole is still good. That does not mean, however, that we are not living as part of a tense world and a tense policy of great power, as several Members have already said. Our security threats are more diverse than military threats. Of course, internal security is important, and the unity of the nation is its most important force. However, in this time period there are threats that are also gnawing at this very internal security, such as the influence of foreign power. For example, the power struggle of the major powers is currently evident in the attempt to define technological standards and to create digital monopolies based on them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u88	And Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u89	Mr President! I would have answered a few questions which have been raised here. In fact, Mr Mykkänen asked about this cooperation in the West why it has not been specifically mentioned. This report also contains a very detailed description of the forms of Western cooperation, cooperation with the United States and the United Kingdom, as has already been mentioned, cooperation with Norway, cooperation with the EU, EU-NATO cooperation. I think it is better to be more specific, and I do not think that this is a change of line, but a more precise one. Representative My corner asked me about this British connection. I can say that, among other things, we have had a joint Nordic-British meeting, partly at the initiative of the Nordic countries, partly at the initiative of the UK. Great Britain is now very active in the direction of Finland, and we have responded to this activity, so bilateral cooperation will certainly intensify. Mr Östman's question about Western Sahara, perhaps enough that Finland has supported an international solution, a UN-led solution to this problem of Western Sahara, and we expect the UN Secretary-General to appoint a new Special Representative for Western Sahara and genuinely reach a negotiating position on the basis of Western Sahara's sovereignty. Mr Savola asked about the US-EU partnership about the expectations of the visit to Biden. At the end of this debate, I myself will go on the line to talk to some European and American actors about what we could do even more. It is quite clear that climate issues, the attitude of the United States towards the entire UN system, the desire to cooperate specifically with Brussels-Washington are now new, and this situation must be exploited. Of course, John Kerry's climate policy, this visible climate leadership from the United States' side, is quite new compared to Trump's time, and this was reflected in the Arctic Council meeting that the United States has changed its line here. Mr Harjanne well described this connection between climate and environmental issues, i.e. when things go wrong in this respect, it has direct security implications and also effects on refugees and migration. This connection is a good one to remember. Then there was the question from Mr Pelkos as to how this training of girls, the status of girls, will be visible. We are very concerned about what has happened during the corona pandemic. The girls have been taken out of school. Are they going back there? Do parents have the resources to train their children, train girls in the same way? Then I would like to take the current situation in Afghanistan as an example. We have tried to support the position of women and girls there, and now, in September, there is going to be a very unclear situation when the troops finally withdraw from it what will happen to the status of women in Afghanistan. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u90	Thank you. — And Minister Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u91	Mr President! As far as Afghanistan is concerned, last night the last Finnish soldiers came out of those crisis management missions in Afghanistan, but surely Afghanistan will need monitoring and support in the future, in some other form. I would like to comment on a few questions here: When Mr Kari asked about this EU-NATO cooperation, I would say that, while the EU and NATO still have a little different configurations and a little different functions, I do not see any such total defence integration in the near future, but rather good cooperation between the EU and NATO is needed. The development and coordination of this issue is made possible by the fact that both of them are engaged in strategic processes, in terms of defence: the 2030 process in NATO and its further steps, which will certainly be aligned with the NATO Summit, which will take place in the very next few days, on the 14th, as I recall, and, in the case of the EU, the construction of a strategic defence compass, which is familiar to the members of the UAV and the Defence Committee, perhaps to others. It is natural that they should be considered to go in the same direction, because good cooperation between the EU and NATO is certainly necessary. Mr Arhinmäki asked questions and views on the export and import of defence equipment. We have guidelines on that in the Government Programme. We don't sell anything anywhere, but you can also say that we don't buy anything from anywhere, and that's first and foremost the law on military supplies. It has been the subject of legislation, and it is the basis for Finland's action.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u92	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u93	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, this report does tell the story in a good way that Finland does not sleep. When you consider, for example, The huge contributions made to the Defence Forces — a fleet, a destroyer, a record number of refresher exercises and new soldiers — also tell their own story that Finland does not sleep. And I am very grateful that this cybersecurity, which has already been the subject of a lot of speeches in this Chamber today, still has a particular focus in the defence report. This is, above all, an extremely important part for Finland. Regarding relations between Finland and Russia, I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: I think it is important that Finland participates in foreign policy, in a common European Union policy, but we also have a lot of border cooperation and just such everyday life between Finns and Russians. Of course, there are challenges to this now, not only in the corona era, but also because of these tense foreign policy relations. Do you see opportunities for some kind of two-track policy that some Westerns have done, or how normal everyday cooperation can in the future Finland and Russia?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u94	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u95	Mr President! My question mainly to Minister of Defence Kaikkonen: now that much is being said — and especially when this Suomi NATO card was raised in the group statement of the Assembly — about bilateral and trilateral cooperation here in the Nordic countries, how do you see, for example, the situation — when Finland and Sweden have this cooperation currently agreed — if Sweden were to raise the issue of joining NATO? Or, on the other hand, Nordic trilateral cooperation, Finland—Sweden—Norway:When Norway,however,is the Nato country moving closer from Finland’s previous accessions to NATO? How do you see this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u96	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u97	Mr President! I believe that human rights, the rule of law and democracy are the values shared by this House. Unfortunately, some of our partner countries are moving towards an increasingly authoritarian system. The functioning of civil society and the media is severely restricted, the rule of law has in practice been thrown into a scrap heap. I see here a certain contradiction between values and commercial and economic interests. This does not mean, however, that the problem must be swept under the carpet, but dialogue must continue very vigorously. Both the report and the committee report pointed out that Finland's expertise in Russia should be continued and strengthened and that more expertise in China should be gained. These are precisely the two key countries in which:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u98	Congressman Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u99	Mr President! For my part, I consider this unanimous view of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be very valuable. Finland has, and must have, a commonly recognised view of the main lines of foreign and security policy, as well as the emphasis here on continuity and predictability and its importance. Furthermore, the importance of parliamentary preparation cannot be overstated in the future, and it is extremely important that we also have this debate together in this Chamber. I think it is justified that the report examines safety as a whole. This is a prerequisite for us to be able to create a real-time and realistic picture of the situation, both in the present and in the future. This is a basic condition for us to be able to identify, anticipate, prepare and also combat these threats in a broad sense. I think that this is an excellent achievement in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u100	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u101	Mr President! Indeed, last autumn there was a cyber attack on Parliament. This is a concrete example of the increasingly invisible security threats on the network and information systems of today. Although digitalisation has provided people with innovations that make everyday life easier, has improved the flow of information and has now enabled them to work under exceptional circumstances, it is also a divisive element. Equality between digital skills and access to networks and devices does not exist within and between countries and creates very different life circles and realities in societies. How do you see this from a threat point of view like this? As technology develops, we must also constantly ask who controls information, what kind of narratives reach and how they affect and how they can be prepared for this. It is easy to agree with the report’s phrase ‘The goal of Finland is to create an open, free and secure cyber environment that takes account of the ethical aspects’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u102	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I note that both the committee report and the House almost agree that it is a good thing that this security and foreign policy is a broad concept. I would hope that in the future, because the EU will play an important role – at least it is often used to justify that this will also have security policy implications – for example, the European Minister would be here so that we would not be so cut off in this debate. That would make sense. Mr Haavisto, I am asking you here: I asked you with a written question whether you could help to ensure that the International Criminal Court, as a matter of priority, could begin to deal with war crimes, terrorist crimes and crimes against humanity. They are challenging and expensive, and it is quite unusual that it is the responsibility of individual countries to carry out criminal liability for such a large number of serious crimes. Would you mind telling me here, could you promote it? In your reply, you made more statements about the current situation, and I asked you if you could promote it. And now I'm asking you here, could you promote it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u104	And Mr. Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u105	Mr President! Here the group leader, Mr Mykkänen, raised the question as to why it has not been said more clearly in this report that we belong or are stationed in the Western security community as Finland. Has there been a reason for this? It would be interesting to know when I myself have not been involved in this preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u108	And Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u109	Mr President! Many speeches have now rightly highlighted the fact that a small country cannot afford to disagree with its foreign and security policy. We may well be able to discuss it, and there is reason to discuss it — there are different priorities — but it should be the same general line. I am a little surprised at this concern from the direction of the coalition that we are not, as it were, part of the Western community. I would now like to check with the Foreign Minister whether we are not a Member State of the European Union and, in my opinion, if we are talking about the Western Community, the European Union is often understood as part of the so-called Western Community — if this definition helps. However, it is very important to recognise that the European Union's security contribution is much more than this so-called 'hard security', it is precisely in cohesion security. We have integrated into a single operating system, partly in terms of legislation and also through political cooperation. But in our report, which we are now adopting, we also emphasise bilateral relations with both the United States and Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u110	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u111	Mr President! Security of supply is an integral part of Finland's security policy. A year ago, many people woke up to the fact that, for example, self - production of food is an extremely important issue in a pandemic situation. Various threats and opportunities for the crisis need to be anticipated as carefully and comprehensively as possible. In recent years, the increase in competition between major powers and hybrid influence has increased the range and likelihood of threats in sight. Mr President! You can't compromise security of supply. Cybersecurity needs to be invested, and the Defence Forces' ability to operate must be ensured, inter alia, by carrying out fighter procurements as planned. And if I have to ask you something,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u114	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u115	Mr President! Many of the previous speeches and also the report drew attention to the parliamentary debate and also to the role of parliaments in foreign policy. We have many international cooperation groups here, and here I would like to point out that it would be good if Parliament's forum on international affairs were to meet more often. It would be a good way for us to reconcile our views. When many representatives have also raised the issue of technology and science and, among other things, Minister Kaikkonen and Minister Haavisto have responded to this, I would like to emphasise the importance of the British report: it has been a great success in highlighting the importance of new technologies and science in the report. I wonder why, and probably the main reason, is that they have a scientific and technological adviser very close to the Prime Minister and the government. They have an institution for it, they have a clearly named public figure in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u116	Like this. — Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u117	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of good questions. Mr Köntä: You asked about this relationship with Finland-Russia in this situation when, on the one hand, we are part of the EU's foreign policy and, on the other hand, sanctions are imposed on Russia because of the situation in Crimea and Ukraine and, on the other hand, when we are bordering on the border, is there some sort of two-track policy? Well, it is not a two-track policy, but it is the five principles adopted by the EU that are also being pursued in this cooperation. There is cooperation in the areas that are essentially possible in these five areas, which of course includes contacts between citizens and this cross-border cooperation and all this. You will be aware that my colleague, Mr Skinner, was just in St.Petersburg at an economic forum that also explored the possibilities for Finnish companies to operate on that side of the border. This is also very important in this situation. The representative, Mr Virolainen, raised these issues of value, specifically for Russia and China, and how these issues are being taken forward. Just yesterday this kind of Government strategy for China was adopted, in which a very strong attempt is being made to send a message to both all government actors and the private sector that we would be aware of the various influences and, in a certain sense, cautious, while seeing these economic cooperation opportunities. They are now being asked very much by the public administration what these are and whether this or that project can go, and this is intended to raise this awareness that not everything is good unambiguously, but there are also growing opportunities for economic cooperation. Similarly, of course, that is what I have just said in relation to Russia, we have maintained awareness of what these EU restrictions are and how we can try to influence them in such a way as to improve relations. Mr Hopsu asked about these different kinds of new technologies and also the threats they pose, and of course there are all these monitoring systems, monitoring technologies. We are very alert to the fact that these technologies will of course come alongside traditional espionage. And perhaps one thing I would like to mention is this issue of refugee espionage, which has been raised in many of the Nordic countries. With countries that have both government supporters and opponents in a third country, these refugee espionage phenomena, that is, refugees are under pressure, their movements are being monitored. We must be very strict in Finland that we do not allow this kind of refugee espionage phenomenon here to grow. Mr Meri asked about the cooperation of the ICC, the International Criminal Court. Firstly, we have been in such a situation for several years now that the ICC has also been in a state of turmoil as a result of US policy. The judge has been banned from travelling to and from the United States, and this is where the policy of the United States has changed. This is very good, it gives room for action, it gives scope for action to the ICC, but I agree with you that ICC resources should be increased. Trials and these war crimes issues should be dealt with specifically in that forum, and that has been our objective too. Congressman Kiljunen asked me... There was talk of this Western cooperation on security — also raised by Mr Kauma. I don't see any difference. We have been more specific about the different forms of this Western cooperation in this report. And finally: Representative Kiviranta, a very good perspective on security of supply. We probably learned a lot a year ago in the spring, and yes, at least to myself, it was a lesson that we did not have a procurement organisation that could act during the crisis. It was thought that in a time of peace we will be equipped and then, during a possible crisis, we will be using the equipment, but the world will no longer be that way, but we must also be in a time of crisis when crises can be surprising.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u118	And Secretary Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u119	Mr President! Representative Niemi asked about the Nordic defence cooperation pattern, and here I would like to say at the outset that Finland is in fact currently holding the presidency of Nordic defence cooperation. As far as the Swedish NATO stock is concerned, the only thing I can say about it is that Sweden itself decides on its own NATO stock and Finland decides on its own position. I'm not going to speculate on it. We have good defence cooperation from the current arrangements, and I do not see any rapid changes to this now, at least. We will further deepen this cooperation between us. In my view, the NATO line described in that report makes sense to Finland. I am personally in favour of this line, and it is my intention to act as Minister. As far as Finland—Sweden—Norway cooperation is concerned, it does not change Finland’s NATO relationship, it does not bring us closer to NATO or further away from NATO. It does not in itself affect it, it is built and recorded in that way. Perhaps I would also like to comment on Mr Kiviranta's attention to this issue of security of supply. With regard to that initial phase of the corona situation, where these masks and other protective equipment ran out, or at least very little, I would like to underline that we must have sufficient self-sufficiency and security of supply. It also applies to domestic food, it also applies to domestic energy, quite a few other things. And what I really think is that when we hope to get out of this corona one day, it might make sense for us to go through some sort of security of supply stress tests, where we go through various imaginary crises and see if we certainly have the capacity to face different kinds of crises in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u122	Representative Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u123	Mr. Speaker! I would like to emphasise that this is not a government Question Time, but we are dealing here with Parliament's response to the Government's report on foreign and security policy. It is good to do so in cooperation with the ministers, but not for us to test them, but rather for them to test us for what we have meant with our answer. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u124	Like this. — Representative Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u125	Mr President! There have been several speeches here about the value of parliamentary agreement on foreign and security policy, and that is the case, but I would also like to point out that, when the Government reports then, the Government also has a responsibility to make a report which is acceptable in a parliamentary manner. There is a lot of good in this report, but, unfortunately, there is also a great deal of ideology in this government. In that respect, I am sure that everyone can take a little catch from it, so that in the future, it is worth really making these things so that they are fully acceptable. I would have asked: when old wisdom says live as you teach, and when there is a lot of talk here about human rights, and now I think it is time for terrorism, for example, to be neglected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u126	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u127	Mr President! Both the report and the report very briefly ignore population growth and, in particular, Africa. There has been talk of climate change here, and climate change affects the opportunities for food production also in Africa. Population growth in Africa is still very strong. At present, the population is around one and a half billion, and the UN predicts that by the end of the century we will be approaching five billion. That increase, 3.5 billion, means only about five European population, means around 600 Finnish population or about 15,000 Tampere population — it tells us about the ratio. And that pressure is on Europe. It is important for the EU to have a common line in development cooperation on this issue when we look at women, family planning and the management of population growth in the direction of Africa that it does not become such a factor.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u128	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u129	Mr President! The report rightly highlights the need for information defence, that is to say to correct false information and to ensure the integrity of information. Certainly, the central cyber battle of the next few years will be conducted on people’s minds, and ever - evolving technology will enable these new means of influence. The importance of Finland's education system, media literacy and source criticism is particularly emphasised, which of course increase society's resistance to information impact. And perhaps, from an international perspective, it is important to promote democracy. I would like to ask: how do you see the Finnish education system, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u130	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u131	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Minister for the promotion of these issues of equality, which was mentioned earlier here. And in connection with this Istanbul agreement, it is very important that Finland actively defends international agreements that safeguard women's rights and supports the promotion of sexual and reproductive rights. It is very important in these times when the rights of women and girls are being challenged, that vulnerable girls and women around the world can be confident that Finland is on their side. Much has been said here about human rights, about climate change, about the return of power policy, and all these themes are being combined, particularly in the Arctic. After all, cooperation in the Arctic region is an important channel for Finland to influence climate issues, sustainable development and also the rights of indigenous peoples. I am pleased that the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs states that the work that is natural for Finland in order to strengthen the human and environmental security of the Arctic region must be stepped up and that the rights of indigenous peoples must be respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u132	Like this. — and Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u133	Thank you, Mr President. As mentioned in the report, the report looks at safety from a broad perspective. This means that security challenges are more than just military threats. According to it, major challenges to Finland’s security include climate change, health threats, violations of human rights and migration. Mr President! I have to ask how this climate change is a challenge for Finland's security. Is it because a few people who are living in a delusion occasionally gather in Helsinki to sit on the street to disrupt traffic? And we also have to ask why health threats have not taken into account corona vaccines, which have already killed thousands of people in the world and already 78 people in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u135	Congressman Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u136	Mr President! I agree with these speakers that it is important for this debate on foreign and security policy to take place in Parliament, particularly from a discussion point of view and from the point of view of the presentation of opinions and, possibly, of the exchange of views. Our EU-NATO relationship and the relationship between the EU and NATO are agendas that will continue to exist in the coming years and in the coming governments on one side or another. That is why I would also consider it extremely necessary to discuss this proposal, the reflection that was expressed by the Assembly in its own speech and earlier statement, that we would not be drifting into a form of cooperation which we do not really want to join. I would also think it sensible that, when the work on foreign and security policy reports has already been combined with a defence report, it should be combined in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u137	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u138	Mr President! As a direct response to Mr Karin's reflections, I have the impression from my own point of view that it is exceptionally necessary, over the next few years, to discuss the issue of NATO's strong involvement in the European security structures in a very factual, peaceful way. We remember the President well. During Trump's last term of office, when the economic cycle varied very radically in this respect. Uncertainty was the most essential characteristic of that climate. I therefore attach great importance not only to our own security, but also to our environment as a whole, to ensuring that the balance and stability between East and West are achieved in a way which, for the West too, must look at and consolidate what is important. In this light, consultation, cooperation and perhaps division of labour between NATO and the European Union
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u139	Reply, Mr. Kiljunen, Mr. Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u140	Mr President! I believe that Mr Kanerva raised a very important issue concerning the role of NATO in the European security architecture. In the 1990s, when there was a debate about Russia joining NATO, we all had a sigh of relief, that at least the debate on Finland's membership of NATO would be greatly facilitated if NATO were a comprehensive common European security system. It came in a certain way to replace, of course, the OSCE's confidence-building activities. I still think it is very important that we understand security as a comprehensive concept based on a common concept of security, so that we do not build our security at the expense of someone else, as it were. We need this kind of undivided security system, and in that respect, of course, NATO also has its own central role.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u143	Like this. — Ladies and gentlemen, many of you are now calling for a reply, but in this debate all the speeches are, as it were, replies. — Representative Savola. — Let us take a few more replies and then Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u144	Mr President! EU defence cooperation is not a competitive concept with NATO, and that is why this development of EU defence cooperation must be what Finland plays a key role in. Personally, I am concerned in this EU cooperation that the United Kingdom, which had to play a key role in the development of EU defence cooperation, is moving away strongly from it, and the agreement that should exist between the EU and the United Kingdom on this development of the PRY is not there, and I believe that this should be promoted from the EU tables. I believe that the EU's common solutions should also be reflected in the arms export and arms import procedure. I do not think it would be a good idea if Finland, at the expense of its own security of supply, were to take a much stricter line than many other EU countries, such as Sweden, which is our neighbour, and this should provide a uniform line as to which countries are to be exported. If Finland does not,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u145	Like this. — and Mr Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u146	Mr President! The report states, among other things, that Finland does not allow its territory to be used for hostile purposes against other countries. This is noble, but if you think more about it, the question arises as to why such an interpretative entry is recorded in the report. Who's it for? If necessary, Finland prepares to defend its sovereignty in all situations. We cannot be in a crisis situation and I do not think we need to be very friendly. The aim is to raise the threshold to take action against Finland and, if necessary, to use military force. In my opinion, this entry is as if it were old and should be reworded — as if we were giving assurances to some of our peaceful intentions, even though we are not really threatening anyone. I'd like to ask the ministers, don't you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u147	And Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u148	Mr President! Comprehensive cooperation is a guarantee of lasting peace and security, and the report highlights the importance of Nordic cooperation for us and, in particular, cooperation with Sweden. We are united by geography, practices, education, history, culture, traditions and, in particular, values. However, the different solutions of the Korona era have undermined Nordic cooperation and bilateral cooperation with Sweden. So can future crises, which is why it is important to have a permanent dialogue with our neighbours. I would like to ask the ministers and for a joint debate: how do we build this neighbourhood and cooperation after the interest rate and also between the Nordic and Baltic countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u149	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u150	Mr President! The democratic process has recently suffered unfortunate setbacks, particularly in Belarus and Hong Kong and, of course, elsewhere, and we also have these authoritarianly-led countries or countries going in that direction. In any of these countries, which this has affected, things have certainly not gone for the better for the people, that is to say, it is really important that we use the means we have at our disposal to promote and strengthen democracy. I would like to ask, while the ministers are still here, about this Arctic cooperation to which Mr Hyrkkök referred. On the Arctic side, there are strong economic interests, there are military interests, there are environmental policy measures, but on the other hand, would it also be such a place of dialogue and diplomacy, where Finland could also be strongly represented?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u151	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u152	Mr President! It is an excellent time for a report on foreign and security policy. The operating environment has changed so fast lately that you don't want to keep up. It is important for Finns to note it and we take it for granted that we belong to the Western community as one strong Western civilization that respects democratic principles and the rule of law. Here's a good foundation. The next base comes from what Urho Kaleva Kekkonen once said: when Finland is in international positions, we must strive for the role of doctor rather than judge, so we do not go pointing fingers at our bigger ones, because big boys can get nervous if we are very quick in the winds of the world. The third point is this defence that we are keeping our own national defence in order. The most important thing is that we have a high will to defend the country and that we maintain a general compulsory military service and a credible level of defence with sufficient equipment. And last but not least, I think that attention is being paid to the European Union: the direction towards which we are now going — the debt union — is the greatest threat for Europe as a whole when it comes to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u153	Next up, Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u154	Mr President! From Finland’s point of view, it is probably most important that we maintain good relations both west and east. The representative of Estonia made a good speech in this regard that Russia's relations and relations with China in particular must be improved at all times. It is the most sensible policy for a small country and it is an impartial policy. I would like to ask Mr Haavisto what Mr Kiuru raised here. We know that Africa will double its population over a few decades, and droughts will increase — climate change will do it — and, of course, rain will increase. But when Africa is a continent that is close to Europe, which is our continent of cooperation, our trading continent, and all the time the EU, in which Finland is involved, is making the development of Africa and supporting its stability, what means do we have to influence the fact that drought does not cause such uncontrolled population movements? Do you have any way to bring it up?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u155	Like this. - And Minister Haavisto, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a good conversation. Mr Rantanen asked whether we should live as we are taught on these issues of terrorism. During this government, inter alia, this core group of the ISIS coalition has been joined and a meeting will take place in the coming weeks. Efforts have been made to be as closely involved in the fight against terrorism on the Finnish side as possible. Of course, this is a very important subject. Mr Kiuru and now Mr Eestilä raised this issue of population growth in Africa, and I would actually have referred to Mr Pelkonen's good speech, in which this role of girls, the status of women, education will be significant, because it has been seen that population growth will also be influenced by improving the position of girls and women. I believe there is one remedy for this situation in Africa. The second is to see that when we look at China and even China's investment in Africa, they may have a mixed view, but Africa is becoming more industrialized, it becomes more urban in many ways. I believe that this kind of new technology, environmentally-friendly technology, technology that brings climate solutions, is growing in importance on the African continent, and we can also be part of it as Finland. There is a lot of demand for such technology and know-how. Mr Kivisaari asked a good question: how can the Finnish education system be part of foreign and security policy? Many things came to mind about it, but perhaps above all, the fact that at school, of course, these basic principles of foreign and security policy are good to learn, but schools are also learning reconciliation processes today. I bring it up because reconciliation processes and such mediation, which is still a Finnish brand in the world, leave the roots that we ourselves have the ability to do so. Many schools practice these processes, and that is a good thing. The representatives Hyrkko and Satonen raised the issue of Arctic cooperation and everything that Finland can do about it, and I fully agree with the speakers that there might be a role in which environmental issues, indigenous issues and then this co-operation with superpowers could provide a forum. And as Mr Kulmuni said, we will be President of the Euro-Barents Group next autumn, and here too this link to the Arctic is very strong and can be used. Mr Turtiainen asked how climate change relates to foreign and security policy. Regrettably, this environmental refugee, climate refugee, the world, when nothing is done, is a trend which, among other things, increases these pressures on refugees. Thank you for this EU-NATO debate. Congressman Kari and the others have intervened. I personally see these as two completely separate organisations, but now that they both renew their own strategy for Europe too, it is very important that it takes place in sync and that this cooperation is taken forward. Mr Hoskonen raised this illustration of President Kekkonen, the doctor-judge. I have thought that, now that this mediation centre has been set up in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during this period and so on, it shows that we still have a strong desire to support these peace processes in the world and to be involved in this peace work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u157	Thank you. — And Minister Kaikkonen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u158	Mr President! This is where Minister Haavisto said so comprehensively that there is not much more to comment on. But perhaps now, for the sake of certainty, I will say to Mr Rantanen, who asked about the safety of Finns that this is, of course, the first thing and the starting point. Also when I referred to this defence report, which is currently being drafted, Finland and the safety of Finns are, of course, the starting point and the top priority. Perhaps I should continue with what Haavisto started with, the answer to Mr Kivisaari about the role of the Finnish education system in all this and its role in security and as part of foreign and security policy. I can see the key role in it. We have a very good education and school system. Let's hold on to it, let's develop it. It also has links to this security and to our foreign and security policy. Yes, today, information influence plays an increasingly important role, and we also need to be prepared for the fact that various information influence companies can also come to Finnish society. In this respect, the tools that a Finnish school can provide are important. We have good general education, good media literacy and, for example, good social media literacy. Even in that wonderful world of social media and the Internet there are many kinds of things moving, and the better we can read and distinguish what is true and what is not true, the safer we are from different harmful influences. We, as Finns, are the world's top class in terms of education and unity of the people, and in fact also in terms of the will to defend the country, to which Mr Hoskonen referred here. Let us stick to these points, Mr President. It is an important guarantee of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u159	Like this. — And now to the list of speakers. Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u160	Mr President! The report and the committee report mention a wide range of and quite real challenges to Finland's security. However, there is more to our everyday lives than the present challenge to the safety of Finland and Finns, which is very serious. I am talking about the so-called corona vaccines, which have also divided our people into two: those who are aware and misled. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now making the following information available to you, and once you have heard this, you will never again be able to rely on ignorance in relation to the risk to which Finnish citizens have been exposed. Finland is currently injecting its citizens with poisons disguised as corona vaccines. First of all — listen carefully — none of the poisons disguised as corona vaccine injected in Finland have a marketing authorisation, but only a conditional marketing authorisation of the European Medicines Agency. The terms of the conditional authorisation state that the authorisation is conditional and that ‘the information available must demonstrate that the benefits of the medicinal product exceed the risks’. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, despite media activity, no people have yet officially died as coronas in Finland. According to THL, official causes of death will not be published for 2020 until 2022. However, according to Fimea, 78 people have died from corona vaccine in Finland and 1306 serious treated adverse reports and 3630 untreated reports have been reported. Approximately 57% of the reported adverse reactions have been assessed as serious. The source for this is Fimea. Thirdly, the conditional marketing licences for poisons disguised as corona vaccines also say: ‘The applicant will be able to provide comprehensive clinical data in the future. “ Ladies and gentlemen, this text is directly on the website of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). I've told you many times here that it's a human experiment. The Finns have not been told, contrary to the Nuremberg Code, that this is a human test. Now, with this speech, I have made all of you, as well as the media, aware that this is a human experiment and that its results are terrible. For comparison: the previous failed vaccine trial, Pandemrix was discontinued when the adverse reactions were 32 times less than now. So I ask all of you: how many people should die or be disabled, that we can stop killing and maiming these people? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the media, you are now aware of the extremely serious security threat facing our nation and of the fact that the disadvantages of corona injections outweigh the benefits. You have no more reason not to act to save our nation. Finally, if you still mislead the public by telling them, for example, fairy tales that vaccines are safe and have a marketing authorisation, you will deliberately participate in a number of crimes that may be the most serious of which is genocide. Let me remind everyone once again, I mean everyone: the crime becomes deliberate when you do it consciously. Now you're all aware. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u161	Like this. — Mr Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u162	Mr President! Finland's foreign and security policy deserves to be brought up regularly in parliamentary debate here in Parliament. This time the report will focus on issues such as climate change, epidemics, nationalism and hybrid influence. These new elements are, of course, important to take into account, because foreign and security policy is more than just a decision on defence budgets. Finland and the citizens face new threats, our partnerships live, and the train of world politics does not wait for passengers. However, the report before us does not take a more specific position on crisis management, even though, when the corona crisis broke out, its dwindling problems were revealed in a harsh way to many countries, including Finland. Co-ordinated co-operation between the various administrative sectors has failed, and this has not been about applying for the early weeks of the crisis, but there has been a lack of clarity right up to these days. Mr President! I took a look at this report on foreign and security policy and I do not think that there are sufficiently clear references to the Western security community and that Finland is a Western country. This has been said very openly in the past, but for some reason it is not there. Of course, the ministers there just opened up a little bit of this. Of course, the records of European security cooperation are positive, but I must say that the great forces needed to maintain the Western security environment are linked to transatlantic cooperation with the United States. For this reason, too, it would have been appropriate to place Finland as part of a broader Western framework. In the same breath, it must be said that the entries in the report relating to NATO are weak, mainly as regards the current situation. It is not clear from this report what direction Finland will take in the future. Of course, that is not surprising in view of the composition of the government. There will be no bolder and more open position in the West. The coalition is a pro-NATO party, as has been pointed out this afternoon, and from our point of view, the EU's defence-related tasks could be combined in the long term in an appropriate way. This is the policy of hard security, which must also be pursued in addition to talking about values and promoting human rights. Mr President! In that recent debate and debate, I pointed out the point in this report that ‘the use of Finland’s territory for hostile purposes by other States’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u165	We have just had a rather extensive debate, but I will now give you one reply, and then back to the list of speakers. — — — — Representative Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u166	Mr. Speaker! Mr Sankelo is puzzled by one sentence, which has been in the report and the reply four years ago during the previous Parliament. When he asks, Against whom and what is its purpose, what is the problem he sees here? Should Finland be available for some hostile purposes against some other states? Let us be frank: this is, of course, an important issue for Russia, because their misconception is that NATO is somehow an attack on them, and that paranoia should not be underestimated. And it is equally clear to me that in the direction of Norway: perhaps Mr Sankelo remembers that at the time of the Cold War there was doubt as to whether Finland was going to give Northern Finland to Russia's attack on Northern Norway. In my opinion, such a phrase is an obvious one that eliminates speculation in all directions. And removing it, Mr Sankelo, would only raise all sorts of questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u167	And Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u168	Mr President! I'm not quite sure about the year, but I am from the millennium. So we lived in the early 21st century, when a strategy was developed, mainly within the European Union, the EU, with the idea of a so-called two-track Russian policy. It meant that the EU could criticise Russia whenever it saw a legitimate reason for it, but at the same time, the EU, in other words, sought to foster its constructive relations with Russia in those areas where it was at all possible — a rather familiar policy. Someone says that two tracks have been used up to two tracks. The first are those Member States of the European Union that we are quite familiar with in practice. There are Germany, there are France, there are some other well-known Member States of the European Union, where, on the one hand, problems have also been triggered at the next stage and, in some places, they have even been accused of being at European level. If I have understood correctly the European Union's Commissioners — not just the present Borrell, but the previous ones — then the two tracks have been closer to their original idea, that is to say, Russia has been roughed up in public, but behind the scenes a more constructive angle of income has been sought. We saw a moment ago the embarrassingly ended visit of the EU High Representative, Mr Borrell, to Russia, which I understand was intended to return to this familiar game. In Moscow, Borrell clearly tried to pull out a traditional two - track performance, but the usual activity was no longer successful. Russia has clearly made its own policy more selfish and looks quite completely past the European Union. The European Union does not fit in with the Russian blueprints today, but it is true that the Member States of the European Union are country-by-country, in isolation. Russia's intention is to show that the times when the EU or the West could criticise and even intervene in Russia's internal affairs without cost disruption are now over, once and for all, from Russia's point of view. At the same time, it was made clear that Russia is only interested in the rails that Europe offers, this national side to which I referred. Borrell clearly came as a surprise, in fact a shock, that his willingness to dialogue was not rewarded, but that Russia wiped out the table with him and with the European Union as a whole in an unfortunate way. The European Union suffered a loss of prestige. Unfortunately, the Russian analysis that it can jog the EU with just no cost at all coincided with this. We have had to defend the Union, and we are not ashamed of it, but we will continue to do so, but of course we also want to influence the principles of the European Union. Finland has had its own difficulties in history. We must all be familiar with our own two-track policies. It no longer works, and our business has been simple and, in fact, the clearer we are, the stronger we are, as a permanent member of the European Union. Is Finland's policy now changing in this regard, I have to ask when I ask whether in this report on foreign and security policy there is a momentum where overemphasized value-basedness is creating at least a potential conflict with Finland's traditional foreign policy policy line. Although Finland has no longer been a doctor rather than a judge for decades, as has just been said in this Chamber, Finland has been profiled as a moderate country that has not applied for public escapades at the expense of other countries. In this respect, we have recently seen a change in the way we operate, which is a light word for Twitter diplomacy. It includes a new dimension, on the one hand, rapid, almost hip-shooting reactivity and, on the other hand, strong public condemnation and reproach on the subject itself. President! In brief: While these motives are pure and sincere, it is worth remembering that statements do not affect the vacuum, for the forest usually responds as it is shouted. Values are the basis, they are important, but they cannot be the only prism through which things are considered. All policies
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u169	Thank you. — and Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u170	Mr President! A foreign and security policy that is capable of broad national consensus in an unstable world political situation characterised by a tightening and major power policy will play an important role. It is necessary to be determined by continuity, predictability and long-term. A balanced report on foreign and security policy provides the basis for stability. At the same time, the unanimous report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is also important. It is important for Parliament to apply for a common line, even though we have our differences of emphasis. According to the report, Finland’s foreign and security policy aims to promote foreign and security policy cooperation, strengthen multilateral cooperation, assume global responsibility and build peace. Security needs to be widely seen. Our task is to ensure Finland’s independence and territorial integrity. We need a credible defense. We still need universal military service. We need peace-keeping and peace-sharing. The report highlights the unity and internal security of the nation. Today we have also discussed the importance of our quality education as a promoter of nation integrity and, for example, as a media literacy teacher. General education is the best medicine against information and fake news. Mr President! Comprehensive cooperation is a guarantee of lasting peace and security. Finland's natural and central form of cooperation is a close relationship with the Nordic countries. On the basis of geography and neighbourhood, extensive practical cooperation has been built, but in addition to this, we are united by shared values, ways of action, education, culture and traditions. The report states that the most important of the Nordic countries and of all partners is Sweden, to which we are linked, along with other issues shared with the Nordic countries, that we are both members of the European Union but that we are non-military countries. Sweden is Finland's most important bilateral partner. Nordic cooperation should be stepped up in all areas. Much remains to be done in the area of the dismantling of border barriers. There is much in common in the area of continuous learning and education, as well as in promoting food security and self-sufficiency and in defence policy. Mr President! Nordicism and Nordic cooperation are more than a security policy choice for Finland. Nordicism is part of our national identity. It impales Finland's position internationally in a very central way. In my view, the Committee on Foreign Affairs makes an important point in its report when it stresses that in particular: The Nordic countries must cooperate more and more to strengthen the international rule-based system. The Nordic countries are a natural reference group for us to seek cooperation in engagement work also in international organisations. For example, in the UN and, for example, in Arctic matters, the Nordic countries have the opportunity to exert a greater influence together. This work will also benefit Finland. Mr President! The importance of society’s resilience to crisis is emphasised in Finland’s security in a rapidly changing operating environment. We must strengthen national defence capabilities and internal security and respond to hybrid threats, serious organised crime and terrorism. Finland must take advantage of the potential of digitalisation and minimise the risks associated with it. Mr President! We must continue to promote Nordic cooperation, but also cooperation with our other neighbours, Estonia, and other Baltic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u171	And a representative of Estonia.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u172	Mr President! The development of the foreign and security policy environment has been largely corona-pandemic for the past 18 months. This time has been an exceptional period in most parts of the world, and the key foreign policy issues of the time have been in vaccine diplomacy and coordination of the corona crisis at both EU and global level. One of the key security policy issues between countries has been the protection against coronavirus. It has been so on the skin and under the skin that its essence as a matter of security policy has been neglected. Mr President! As vaccine coverage progresses, the acute foreign and security policy issues of the pandemic are hopefully falling behind. Previous global trends return to a global level of power in the EU, China, Russia and the United States. The Western countries will continue to seek a common response to China's authoritarian policy and to reform the rules of international trade and the role of multilateral decision-making. With the politicisation of global trade policy, the EU aims to remain an open and trade power based on its values. The EU's ability not to take a stand on China's and the United States' major power struggle will be reduced, and the price of defending human rights will also increase. Mr President! As the world economy contracted last year, in China, which quickly controlled the epidemic, the economy grew. The USA has been building international trade rules for decades, and now, after the last four years of Turbulent, the President is in charge of finding solutions to the world's problems and good relations with Europe. Despite President Biden's efforts, the conflict of interest between China and the United States in world domination is not in sight to break tensions through negotiation. Both want to define tomorrow's multilateral decision-making and trading rules, both want to produce winning technologies. However, in a major competition, even in the face of security policy, countries are tightening each other up to develop better and more cost-effective solutions to the major security threat of our time, namely climate change, while also tightening companies around the world, including in Finland. Mr President! Foreign and security policy issues affecting us must be seen with reading glasses and binoculars. Understanding today's field of action and the solutions it needs requires careful mapping of global developments and immediate risk factors in our neighbourhood. One example of this is the import of goods into Europe via the Arctic Silk Road. Five out of eight Arctic countries belong to NATO, which makes Finland a good transit country to Central Europe for Chinese trade. In 2018, China’s company to acquire an airport next to Rovajärvi ceased to invest in the defence forces’ suspicion of use for research purposes other than the Arctic region. There are other examples.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u175	Thank you. — and Mr Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u176	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs continues the good line of the report, which understands a broad security perspective as a framework for all foreign and security policy, but not at the expense of a traditional security perspective. The committee stresses the importance of parliamentary debate. For example, the proposal for discussions on the basis of the Prime Minister's announcements is a good proposal for more frequent reports. In the final analysis, however, it is the responsibility of us parliamentarians to take an active stand and to exchange ideas with experts and colleagues, including at international level. Mr President! Climate change, together with the loss of nature, is a question of the fate of mankind, which is already being delayed in resolving. The decline in ecosystems, living conditions and livelihoods, and even the collapse or disappearance, create tensions, feed on sustainable development and inevitably drive people around, especially when they coincide with poor governance and poverty. In addition to changing climate, the necessary measures required by climate change are also reflected on the map of geopolitics. The objective of 1.5 would mean halving the consumption of more or less global fossil energy in this decade. It will be reflected in the economies of countries dependent on fossil energy exports, such as Russia and many countries in the Middle East, perhaps even in social peace. I have no sympathy for authoritarian regimes, but there is no desire for disorderly implosion either. We therefore need a policy that reconciles the decarbonisation of the world economy with the building of stability and democracy. Climate and nature policy must therefore be seen as an integral part of trade, foreign and security policy. Mr President! In the report and report, the blackmailed Great Power Competition will become a key force for shaping Finland’s operating environment. Fewer and fewer, if any, arena or region survives, as competition is reflected in both the Arctic region and technology policy. In assessing the framework set by the return of this great game — Professor Hiski Haukkala to quote — it must be remembered that there are very different players on the board: there are democracies that believe in the freedom of people and ideas, there are arrogant dictators who trample on fundamental rights. For others, law and justice are the protection of citizens, for others the means of oppressing and robbing. While it is important to strengthen the rule-based order and seek reconciliation through negotiations, it is quite clear which team Finland is in this game. Finland is part of the Western Community of Value and Security. That is why a united and viable EU with a close transatlantic relationship based on its values is essential. Efforts to destabilise and influence China and Russia must not be allowed or given in, and the actions of outcast regimes such as Belarus must be addressed. Finland’s interest is to promote and defend democracy and human rights together with partners around the world. [Markus Black Lake interlude] Mr President! The most concrete question at the heart of foreign and security policy is ultimately what arrangements Finland will build its own immediate security. Here we have ended up in a situation where we belong to the European Union but not to NATO. At the same time, the relationship with NATO is very close and, at the same time, emphasizing certain dents. At the same time, we are aware that we cannot remain outside the crisis in the neighbouring region and that NATO has an important role to play in stabilising the Baltic Sea region. From a Finnish perspective, this arrangement may be considered justified, but Finland's security is linked to Europe, whose military security base is precisely a collective defence based on NATO, and this is not changing. Finland has taken care of its national defence capability, even exemplaryly, but it is appropriate to ask whether our security policy solution is the most constructive of its own and of the security of neighbouring regions. I personally believe that NATO membership in Finland and preferably Finland and Sweden would clarify European security arrangements and contribute to the stability and security of the continent. While the alliance remains only an opportunity for the time being, the ability and readiness to cooperate internationally and to provide and receive assistance are essential to us and should be actively promoted and practiced, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u177	Like this. — and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u178	Mr President! The Committee on the Future also dealt with this report on foreign and security policy. Since the views of the Committee on the Future are looking further into the future, I would like to make a few comments on the committee's opinion also in this debate. One key theme of our opinion is to make better use of foresight information in decision-making. At the latest, the interest-bearing pandemic has shown that we have not been able to make sufficient use of the foresight information. For several years now, international foresight reports have highlighted the likelihood of a deadly virus pandemic, and yet we were not sufficiently prepared to do so. It is important to wake up to this fact, as sufficient anticipation and preparedness build up social resilience. Important issues for resilience include food security and international supply chains related to critical resources and natural resources. Different scenarios will be created in anticipation. It is up to policy to act in such a way that negative scenarios do not materialise and, on the other hand, that we are prepared for threats and crises and that we have the means to deal with them. It is also important, of course, to promote positive scenarios by means of policies. In autumn 2020 the Future Committee commissioned a report on the threats raised in the national and international foresight reports. According to the study team, the correlation between the risks and threats presented by this report and the global foresight community appears to be quite good. As a general rule, the report deals with the same types of risks and threats as were highlighted in the various foresight reports. However, the foresight reports also mention threats that go beyond what is hardly covered in the report, and these should be of particular interest to us. In terms of security policy, it is important that preparedness is also understood as preparedness for the worst. The first step is to systematically identify the risks with dystopian effects. The consequences of these effects and the means to prepare for them must then be assessed. In the hearings of the Committee on the Future, there are, for example, threats in which fossil-dependent states use a wide range of means to prevent the green transition from taking place. Electricity and communications networks are collapsing, new types of cyber- and hybrid-war actors are emerging, whose attack will result in significant damage to Finland or the Finns. Significant drugs lose their effectiveness due to antimicrobial resistance, dangerous animal and plant diseases spread through accidents or bioattacks, soil and groundwater are contaminated as a result of a nuclear accident, or the loss of biodiversity results in a sudden collapse of ecosystems that are critical to our food supply. In the view of the Committee on the Future, the impact of threats to the world economy on the security environment also needs to be better assessed. The committee has already taken a position on the changes and complexity of the international environment and has also called for alternative scenarios and operating models in the light of the fact that the change in the global operating system is permanent or very long-term. The report focuses on strengthening the rule-based and multilateral foreign policy as a measure. Although this is a well-founded and supported vision of foreign and security policy, the possible threat should also be to look more closely at how Finland operates in a world where the rule-based and multilateral approach continues to deteriorate or the rules and agreements are based on new values that conflict with Finland's values and objectives. As the global environment becomes more complex and EU decision-making becomes more difficult, Nordic cooperation will also become increasingly important. The Committee on the Future also pays particular attention to the fact that the excess of the planet's carrying capacity and the adequacy of natural resources are important factors affecting the global security situation and that signals should be monitored. The security threats they pose must be anticipated and prepared with much greater seriousness, including as part of the foreign and security policy and subsequently also as part of the defence policy report. The Committee's consultations raised a number of important security issues, which also need to be further analysed. These include, for example, the blurring of the information environment caused by artificial intelligence and social media in a new way by social and cognitive cybersecurity as a challenging information environment and, for example, the need to define Finland’s national cyberspace and the impact of virtual currencies on the world economy and the environment, as well as the rapid increase in the importance of space technology. Finally, Mr President, I would like to come back to this day and remind you that, in order to develop national resilience, we need to take full advantage of the lessons of the corona virus pandemic, assess the new practices that have arisen during the exceptional period and analyse how our knowledge base and decision-making system should be developed so that our society can function better in the face of similar crises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u179	Thank you. — and Mr Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u180	Mr President! At best, Finland can be bigger than its size in the world. We are known as an equalist, a peace negotiator, an uncompromising defender of human rights. Our reputation as a pioneer in the fight against climate change, technological development, education and women's and girls' rights gives credibility to work for these issues also in the world. We are trusted and called upon to support us in difficult times. The report on foreign and security policy provides the basis for the continuation and reinforcement of this work. It is of particular importance that human rights be raised to a stronger and more fundamental role in Finland's foreign and security policy. Cross-border problems, such as global warming, biodiversity loss, air and sea pollution and various security threats, need more cross-border solutions alongside national measures. At best, international agreements and solidarity prevent problems from arising and deepening and build a path towards an open, stable and free world. Different divisions, confrontation and the return of power policy make defending and developing the principles of a rule-based international system and international law difficult but all the more important. Deepening international cooperation, strengthening democratic structures and clarifying common rules of play are necessary in order to achieve the objectives of, for example, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, other human rights treaties, the UN Convention on Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. The international community is obliged to intervene in the activities of individual states where the State is unable or unwilling to protect the lives of its citizens or to respect the rule of law. The free-passenger activities of the climate crisis must also be addressed. Mr President! These important points of view — human rights, the fight against climate change and natural disasters and the return of power policy — are being combined, particularly in the Arctic region. Cooperation in the Arctic region is an important channel for Finland to influence climate issues, sustainable development and the rights of indigenous peoples. The Arctic region plays an enormous role on a global scale in the fight against climate change, in the preservation of biodiversity and in the sustainable exploitation of natural resources. Cooperation between all countries in the region is therefore extremely important. Finland also has an important role to play in ensuring that security policy tensions do not overwhelm, for example, the necessary cooperation on environmental issues. The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore states that the work that is natural for Finland in order to strengthen the human and environmental security of the Arctic region must be stepped up and that the exercise of the rights of indigenous peoples and respect for the environment is a prerequisite for successful Arctic cooperation. Mr President! In recent years, resistance to the rights of women and sexual minorities has intensified both globally and in Europe, and this is reflected, for example, in the active action of some EU Member States against the Istanbul Agreement against violence against women and against domestic violence. At the same time, many global challenges, such as climate change and corona pandemic, have a negative impact on the realisation of women's rights and highlight existing discriminatory and unequal social structures. The role of women and girls in and after conflicts is still very vulnerable and the methods of warfare are increasingly dangerous for women, girls and gender and sexual minorities. The importance of these developments and the gender perspective should be further strengthened in the analysis of the operating environment for foreign and security policy. Finland must actively defend the implementation of international agreements that safeguard women's rights and support the promotion of sexual and reproductive rights. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore stresses in its report that equality is not only achieved through development cooperation, but must be seen as part of the various areas of foreign policy. This worrying development, as described above, should be reflected in Finland's ever-increasing efforts to defend equality, including the rights of persons with disabilities and sexual rights, in foreign and security policy and in EU policy. Finland must also continue its efforts to strengthen the role of women in peace processes and in various decision-making forums. As important as sexual rights and reproductive health are, their realization is far from a big deal. That is why we need countries like Finland who can tirelessly speak for sexual rights even when they are being challenged. We come forward when exchanges of power threaten to deprive the important working organisations of funding, and we will continue to work consistently and rigorously for women's rights from one government to the next. Mr President! Finally, foreign and security policy is a matter for all Finns. A wide-ranging and inclusive debate on the subject is important to enable people of different ages and backgrounds to take ownership of the issue. Particular attention should be paid to young people's opportunities to participate in foreign and security policy discussions and influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u181	Like this. — and Mrs Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u182	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a good report on this government report on foreign and security policy. It has been summed up a lot of the critical remarks that have been raised during the hearings of the various committees. For example, the parts of the memo on hybrid threats and cyber security are good new threats that are understood on the surface. Nevertheless, Mr President, as a member of the Committee on the Future, I would like to make more specific reference to the points contained in the opinion of the Committee on the Future. We did. It is precisely the impact of technological developments on the security of societies that is the opportunity to have a very open and direct debate at TuV's own expert hearings. My wish would therefore be for the TuV opinion to be used even more fully in the preparation of the next UTP reports. Mr President! Finland and the world are in the midst of a historic change in 2021. Its engine, however, is not ideology or politics, but knowledge-related technology. We cannot forget the future perspective that who will be in control of data will probably also be in control of the world in the future. The change to that old non-digital world is great, but still the biggest changes are just ahead. Although many everyday things become easier with new technologies, the other side of the coin is that at the same time we open up the villages to abuse our own information, and it is happening more and more. In addition to traditional cyber criminals, countries are now also involved. Even now, in relations between the major powers, attacks based on new technologies and the fight against them are commonplace. The same series has been the attempt by the major powers to take over and monopolise certain new applications of information and communication technologies. The technological cold war is going on right now. And yet, according to the experts, this is only a prelude to bigger threats. The development of artificial intelligence and machine learning makes it possible to produce and share more and more skilled fake knowledge. For example, what happens to the general public debate in the elections of the future if it is allowed to continue to be conducted by learners, all-inclusive and tireless artificial intelligences? The threshold for such attacks is reduced by one month, as the possibility of being caught is limited and there is virtually no sanction. And what happens to our current encryption technologies when the quantum computers that are already advanced enable all possible encryptions to be decrypted within a few seconds? What does it do to our societies, where, among other things, the processing of confidential data requires strong encryption? Mr President! It is obvious that it is difficult to develop fast-acting responses to all the threats posed by new technologies. People’s ability to innovate always wins the desire to regulate, and borders are usually set only as a result of damage. Yet right now, we should be active in these matters and invest in creating a more responsible international cyber environment. As a larger player in digitalisation and cybertechnologies, Finland could serve as an example of this by its own national decisions and international tables. I hope that some of these wishes will be answered in the Government's forthcoming defence policy report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u184	Mr President, ärade talman! According to the Government's report, Finland's foreign and security policy aims to promote international cooperation, assume global responsibility and build peace. Foreign and security policy is therefore much more than defence policy, because many of the challenges to human security and our well-being are global and non-traditional armed conflicts. It is therefore essential that the debate — more than it may be at the moment — focuses on the creation of international peace, security and prosperity. No country is safe from these security threats. That, of course, is what we have now seen about the effects of the covid-19 pandemic. They are not helped by traditional policies of force and the means of debate; quite the contrary. Of course, we hope that the visit by President Biden to the EU countries of the United States will also add weight to them. Even in Finland, our views on global status, international commitments and human rights are strongly divided. We have developed a political movement that thinks that Finland can only be safe by closing down and isolation from international cooperation, by opting out of the binding nature of international obligations. From this point of view, the unanimous report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs does not reflect the actual or at least the whole truth about the political climate in Finland. I believe that the unilateral inclusion of security threats in the movement of people by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is too important for this view. We want to give a false impression that we can live apart from each other, that immigrants are always a threat and that people who flee persecution no longer deserve international protection, as is required by our commitment to one of the most important international human rights conventions, the Geneva Convention on Refugees. His historical memory is short. It was precisely to protect the people persecuted by the Nazis in Europe that this agreement was built. It is therefore a question of rule-based cooperation and the basis and commitment of sustainable development and democracy. It is also a question of humanity and of taking on a clear responsibility. Strengthening the rule-based international system and international cooperation is in Finland's interest. The report explains in particular the importance of UN-EU cooperation structures. Finland also aims at the Human Rights Council for the period 2022 to 2024, where Finland’s main message “Adiverseworld,universalhumanrights” highlights the universality of human rights. In particular, we highlight the promotion of women's and girls' rights and gender equality and the defence of the rights of vulnerable people. We are therefore linked to an active and determined influence of global responsibility. Finland emphasises the active promotion of human rights, the rule of law and equality in all relations. This also requires credibility in terms of domestic and EU policies. What does a human rights-based policy always mean in practice? That does not happen by itself, but we must actively find new ways of working and structure. This could in practice mean that our delegations are allocating time to human rights issues, monitoring the achievement of objectives and, for example, creating human rights networks for international actors in the target countries. Human rights-based approach also means supporting human rights defenders, monitoring trials against them, for example, and active on gender issues. The Anti-gender movement and groups against the rights of women, gender and sexual minorities have become stronger and pose a significant threat to women's rights. The global movement seeking to restrict women's rights is well organised, funded and influential. Violence and sexual violence against women constitute a concrete threat to safety for women and sexual and gender minorities. Human rights are in small places, as Eleanor Roosevelt once said when she was oppressing the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Human security is a high level of security which cannot necessarily be secured by weapons, but which should always be a measure of peace. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u185	Thank you. — and Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u186	Mr President! The present report defines the starting points for Finland's foreign and security policy. The report highlights global problems such as climate change, migration, demographic development, terrorism and violent radicalisation. The report was also made by the Administrative Committee, but unfortunately our unanimous and good opinion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report is almost completely ignored. Since the analysis of terrorism and immigration in particular is marginal in both the report and the report, I will address them in this speech. In its opinion, the Administrative Committee dealt extensively with immigration. Although conflict prevention, crisis management, development policy, climate policy and commercial economic cooperation are instruments of foreign and security policy that can influence the root causes of migration and support regional stability, despite significant economic and other efforts, results have been achieved little and very slow. The UTP report also mentions immigration to Finland as an destabilising factor. The Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses the need to increase the obligation to integrate immigrants. The unfortunate example of our western neighbour is worth keeping in mind. It is also important to understand and prepare for the threats posed by large-scale immigration. Events in 2015 should not be possible because asylum seekers do not fall within the scope of free movement in the EU, but they just happened and can happen again. Both the Canary Islands, the rest of Spain, Italy and Greece are seeing an increase in illegal immigration. The use of alleged asylum seekers in hybrid operations, such as border cases from Turkey to Greece, should also be understood and prepared in relation to our own eastern border. As in many of its unanimous opinions before, the Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses that the basic objective of the asylum system is to provide international protection to those who genuinely need it. Abuses should be addressed and the return should be effective and timely. Now that is not the case. ‘The return system does not function properly, which There are considerable numbers of people in Europe who, after having received a final negative decision, refuse to leave the territory of the Union and who will not be accepted by their country of origin unless they return voluntarily. In turn, it is difficult to reach some of those living illegally in Europe. In a number of opinions, the Administrative Committee has stressed that illegal entry and residence without the right of legal residence must be prevented more effectively and refunds must be implemented more effectively. It has not been possible to conclude return agreements and cooperation between the internal affairs ministers and the home affairs administration of the EU Member States alone. There is a need for Member States' foreign affairs administrations, foreign ministers, governments and prime ministers to promote return cooperation with third countries. Trade policy, development cooperation and other social policies must be linked to the implementation of an effective return policy. According to the Administrative Committee, in exchange for the various financial contributions from the Union and the Member States, it must be possible to impose an obligation to receive returnees without conditions. Without an effective return policy, there can also be no uniform EU immigration and asylum policy. Mr President! The report mentions terrorism and violent radicalisation a few times, but it does not take a broader position on these. We also dealt with terrorism and radicalisation in our opinion in the Administrative Committee. In Finland, the most significant terrorist threat is, according to a report received by the committee, individual actors and small groups in favour of radical Islamist and extreme right-wing ideology. There are currently some 390 target persons in the protection police's fight against terrorism, most of which are linked to radical Islamist ideology. Radical Islamist terrorism also constitutes the most significant threat of terrorism on a global scale. The protection police have estimated that foreign fighters returning from conflict areas in Syria and Iraq to Finland are likely to continue to operate in radical Islamic networks. Returners linked to terrorist organisations are reported to constitute a security threat regardless of gender. The Administrative Committee believes that more attention should be paid to the Foreign and Security Policy Report in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u187	And Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u188	Mr President! Our foreign and security policy must not be volatile or subject to any change of power. Of course, parties and governments also have different perspectives and priorities for foreign and security policy, but the Finnish line should be long-term and united. The report on foreign and security policy is a fine indication that we have a wide-ranging consensus on Finland's main lines of action in relation to the report, which goes beyond the Government's opposition. The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is unanimous, and that in itself is important for our foreign and security policy. Of course, there are weighting differences, and that's a good thing. Mr President! Finland’s foreign and security policy has an important objective that national action and international cooperation prevent armed conflicts and situations that endanger Finland’s security and the functioning of society and Finland’s exposure to military conflict. Finland pursues an active stability policy to prevent military threats and does not allow its territory to be used for hostile purposes against other states. The Foreign Affairs Committee shares the objectives of Finland's foreign and security policy as recorded in the report, in order to strengthen Finland's international position, safeguard the independence and territorial integrity of the state, strengthen Finland's security and well-being, and maintain the functioning of society. The report examines safety from a wide-ranging safety perspective. Finland's security threats are not only military threats, but it is increasingly important to understand our threats, such as climate change, loss of biodiversity, terrorism, cyber and hybrid threats or, for example, pandemics such as the corona crisis. We still consider some threats to be so unlikely that we do not really even stop at them. However, it has shown us that the improbable can become a reality, and then we must be prepared for that even the most unlikely threat. In its opinion, the Committee on the Future raises this very point of view. Experts from the Future Committee highlighted, among other things, new threats created by technological developments, social resilience, threats raised in foresight reports and the international profile of Finland as a security expert. With regard to the threats posed by technological developments, the Committee on the Future raises in its opinion, for example, the power struggle of the major powers, which is currently reflected in the attempt to define technological standards and create digital monopolies based on them. This process obscures trade, technology, foreign and security policy interfaces and also makes technology and trade policy a foreign and security policy. According to one expert, there is a risk, for example, of splinternet, the breakdown of the Internet as political influence and business are mixed together. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that the immediate military threat to Finland is not the only one we are fortunate enough to see in this report either. The security situation in Finland as a whole is still good. That does not mean, however, that we are not living as part of a tense world and a great power policy. Our security threats are also more diverse than military threats. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore stresses the integrity and cohesion of the nation, which is one of the main factors in internal security, and the well-being that is shared on an equal footing. These are also prerequisites for: Finland is able to respond to potential threats from outside its borders. The Committee on the Future points out that, in particular, information defence, i.e. the correction of false information and strategies to ensure the integrity of information, would have earned more weight in the report. For example, experts mentioned the ability of the GPT-3 artificial intelligence to produce intelligent texts and discussions in several languages. According to the expert, it is not far from being able to use millions of conversations in social media at the same time, where it is difficult for people involved to perceive that they are talking with the machine. There are also services that can create photographs of faces that do not really exist. In the videos, these faces can speak in different languages. Such an environment will make it more difficult, even uncontrollable, to cherish the internal integrity of the country. The report could therefore be even bolder and more forward-looking in how it deals with the threats of today’s world and the future. We must be able to prepare for these threats and prevent them before they are realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u189	Thank you. — Mr Multala is absent, Mr Kausto is absent. — Mr Mustajärvi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u190	Mr President! The reporting processes are very interesting. I myself have already been involved in the NATO monitoring group and in the follow-up group to the report on foreign and security policy and defence policy — and the same work has continued during this period — and in the Committee on Defence for the second time. These report texts do not go from scratch, but there are always key content from previous reports, as they should be, but then the officials, when they are not completely neutral and their positions are not value-free, lay the foundations for the texts that are being baked in the monitoring group and in the TP-UTVA, and these ministries, the monitoring group and the TP-UTVAvavavavaatsin, are well-connected, and the monitoring group has an internal process and an external process to export them. Once these bodies have blessed the final product on their own side, it will then come to the House for consideration. It would be of the utmost importance for those who have followed up on such representatives who have dedicated themselves to foreign and security policy for decades to find those in younger generations of politicians who take these matters as their own, even though studying foreign and security policy may not be the surest way to ensure that re-election. When it comes to the report, the pursuit of consensus is a valuable thing, and the starting point is to look at what unites us and not to seek out the things that separate us. The reports should be able to be cross-sectioned in key respects so that they have the essential interfaces in order. Of course, the time span for the defense report is the longest. The text mentions that it is between 8 and 10 years, but it is in fact much longer because the time span of the HX project, which is the largest procurement decision in the history of Finland, is already between 30 and 40 years, and this procurement has a very strong foreign policy dimension. Mr President! When the representatives of the Coalition Party have criticised and wondered why the text contains the phrase ‘Finland does not give up its territory for hateful purposes’, they concluded that it was successful. And the answer can be found in the group speech of the Coalition Party. The group speaker said that Finland's regions, the northern regions, are of strategic importance. That is why that sentence is an integral part of the text. If you think about Russia's fear of Finland, you probably won't be afraid, but you'll probably follow very closely whether they're going to have 1,300 kilometres of new NATO border when you know how important the Murmansk region and the St.Petersburg region have been to Russia and the Soviet Union during the Tsar regime and are now still in the new Russia. Why, then, are Finland’s activities being monitored? Finland has 80 international exercises a year. In fact, there are not many days in the year, during the annual cycle, that there are no NATO forces here. Some time ago, the B-52 bombers simulated a tactical nuclear attack on the Murmansk area. Norway has proposed a transit agreement, which means that war material and soldiers would be transported through the northern regions of Finland and Sweden during both peace and crisis. And when it is said that there is not a clear enough commitment in Finland to the West, then if Finland has nine bilateral defence agreements, two trilateral agreements and a NATO host agreement, then what would be even clearer than NATO membership, given that we are already full members of the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u191	Thank you. — And Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u192	President! In Finland’s report on foreign and security policy, the traditional threats and objectives are largely the same as in its predecessor in 2016, but unfortunately the content is strongly marked by the ideological ideas of the government. It is regrettable that, as a result, the report neglects and ignores many of the real points of attention. For example, strategic competition between major powers has been reflected in Finland’s neighbouring regions and security environment, although this development has not been adequately described in the report. We must be aware that a large part of our country belongs to the Arctic. Over the past few years, military activity has increased in the north, and Russia, for example, already reserves the same training areas in the Arctic region as NATO. China also defines itself as a country close to the Arctic region and has begun to seek a role in the region's gas and oil reserves. Through these various projects, there will be a potential for influence. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also draws attention to the intensified struggle between the major powers, and I was not entirely satisfied with the way in which its tensions have been analysed in the report. Hybrid influence and threats to the cyber environment are increasing and, in particular, the development of network security is increasingly important. This is something we cannot talk too much about today. The pandemic also brings health safety to the level of military threats for the first time in the report. The report mentions terrorism and violent radicalisation a few times, but does not take a broader view of the role of jihadism and Islamic extremism as a threat to foreign and security policy. However, extremist Islamist thinking and Islamist violence are one of the most significant external threats that will grow even further in the coming years. Another issue that has been overlooked is the flow of migrants from outside Europe. They should have been seen as a much more serious external threat to national security. In recent years, migration has been completely out of control and has been far from predictable and regulated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u193	Thank you. — Representative Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u194	Mr President! The report on foreign and security policy is an important document, which, according to its name, focuses on the main threats to foreign and security policy and, on the other hand, on the possibilities for cooperation from the Finnish perspective. Furthermore, the spearheads are state independence and territorial integrity — good. However, I could not help but notice a kind of ideological coloring in certain areas mentioned in the report — and I noticed ideology, above all, in what was left out of the report almost completely. For example, illegal immigration or possible new immigration avalanches, abuse of the asylum system and the mild phenomena that it causes, terrorism, the deterioration of security and social fragmentation were not given enough emphasis in the report. Instead, the emphasis was placed on global responsibility and burden sharing, which is more of a crisis management exercise than on identifying motives or preventing mild phenomena. Less unexpectedly, climate issues played a huge role in the report as a motivator of migration, although for a long time the causes have been quite different from climate change. There is obviously a desire to create an image of large-scale immigration that is a kind of force of nature that cannot be contained or prevented. On the other hand, Finland’s oversized climate action can also be loosely linked in this way to preventing illegal immigration and, on the other hand, the massive development budget can be justified on exactly the same basis. Mr President! The report also gives a rather rosy picture of the role of the European Union, but the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs contains an excellent point which, in practice, states that the EU itself is watered down by circumventing its rules. The report states that ‘The Committee will pay attention to the extent to which,at a time when international voltages haveincreased,there has also been an increase in the capacity of the multi-lateral cooperation system based on the As part of this development, Finland should be prepared for a rapid re-interpretation of international agreements and for a selective commitment to further weaken the contractual system and international institutions.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u197	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u198	Mr President! ‘In all situations and in all cases during the peace and wartime, This is what we have all said before the almighty and all-knowing God whom we swore military power. In some ways, this report is also an oath that Parliament is now taking in its own way on how to develop Finnish security policy in the future. Recently, on 4 June, the Day of the Flag Festival was celebrated by the Defence Forces. On that day we will be handing out medals and promoting distinguished soldiers and reservists, those who ultimately safeguard the independence of our country. It is also the birthday of Marshal Mannerheim. Our tradition, our ways and our history are of great importance, and that is why our country's foreign and security policy also emphasises stability, continuity and long-term sustainability. The report on foreign and security policy is a step in the direction of these fundamental issues. Finland's goal is to strengthen the international position of our country. We will continue to safeguard the independence and territorial integrity of our country. We don't give up independence. These foundations are not shaken by changing economic conditions in our country, not by elections, nor by external effects. “The people who do not know their past do not have the The promotion of peace requires that we remember our past and respect the legacy of independent Finland that we have received from the veteran generation. Finland is a non-military country that maintains a strong and credible defence capability. Through our own actions and international cooperation, we will strengthen and ensure Finland’s security and social functioning in the future. We live in a democracy, but there are few powers next door. The world around us is changing. Russia is playing an increasingly active role in the political stability of our neighbouring regions and increasing its presence in the world. It's the casserole. It's the casserole. It's the casserole. It's the casserole. The conflict in Ukraine continues, and seven years have passed since the illegal conquest of Crimea. In Belarus, the opposition is suppressed by force. Mr President! Crisis does not expect more appropriate times. The global corona pandemic gave us an unfortunate reminder of the importance of preparedness and security of supply. The empty rows of food shelves and uncertainty about the future gave us reason to think about our own preparation and its level. Society must always be ready for unexpected situations and crises. This was not the case in the middle of the Korona. However, Finnish temperament was able to survive and survive in the future. Protecting security requires an ever wider perspective. In addition to military threats, competition between major powers, hybrid influence and the global challenges we recognise pose challenges for Finland as well. Our security of supply needs to be updated to respond to the threats of the 2030s. Mr President! Change is not just a visible threat, as the corona showed. The danger lies in the invisible. Cybersecurity is a constantly growing element of security policy, an invisible enemy that is more dangerous than before — not so much visible, but its effects are becoming more visible. Almost every single one of us carries, processes and creates data on a continuous basis using mobile phones, computers and other technical devices. Almost all goods from cars to home electronics and electrical networks to health systems are online. We must be better prepared to maintain and promote security in the information networks as well. The report focuses strongly on the safety of the cyber environment. The forthcoming defence report will address this issue more closely. To take account of this ever-growing and changing area requires the flexibility and understanding that needs to be constantly developed. We need more experts, more resources and more crisis awareness. With the increasing amount of information, the need to ensure information and correct wrong information is also evident. It must be understood that things recorded on the Internet can also have different purposes. With the Internet, new ways of exerting influence are also possible. Mr President! Finland is the best country for us Finns. Only as a united nation will we ensure that this is the case in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u199	Thank you. — And Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u200	Mr President! First of all, the foreign and security policy report before us is strongly focused on supporting the ideology and values of the government. When you read through the report, you will see which party takes the government. It's full of green ideology. In some points, objectivity seems to be excellent in its absence, especially in the case of terrorism and violent radicalisation, which has become more widespread in the policy of open borders. These are mentioned a couple of times in the report, but the report does not take a broader view of the growing threat of jihadism and extremist Islam in Finland. The truth is that wherever a large-scale and lax immigration policy has taken place, there has also been a worrying increase in extremism. And its threat has not disappeared, even though a terrorist organization, for example, has not disappeared. Isis is mostly defeated. History has taught us that when one terrorist organization is eliminated, the next one is already in line to take a foothold. Today’s silence is merely the calm ahead of the storm. Evil lurks, and there is reason to anticipate it. Mr President! You don't have to be. Einstein to see what has happened, for example, in the neighbouring country of Sweden and what the country's prime minister has now finally had to say. The Swedish birdhouse is a mere memory. The wrong immigration policy and eye-clouding hugging of the world have ruined our Western neighbours. Problems cannot be swept under the carpet for eternity or explained by what excuse. Finland must learn and not repeat the mistakes that our neighbour has made. It is claimed that Finland is even one of the most stringent immigration policy countries in Europe. If that were the case, our judicial system would not have been overloaded, for example, by complaints about asylum, which one asylum seeker and the same asylum seeker can produce in beads several times in a row. The argument of a strict immigration policy is therefore a complete misdemeanour. International human rights conventions signed by Finland ensure that people who are potentially life-threatening to the general population cannot be expelled from Finland. Where is the Finnish human rights for a safe life, let me ask you. And now that the left is sure to be reviled and the thorn is felt, remember Turku and the dozens of other terrible events in which our citizens have lost their lives, because we have protected the human rights of terrorists and murderers and allowed them to be freely dissembled among our people. The basic Finnish line has not been listened to and put in custody of these people who have proved to be time bombs. Yes, it is. It's quiet at this point. Mr President! The report states that the Finnish security environment has changed in a more unstable direction and is thought to be long-term. This is true, but not just in the light of the criteria that the report narrowly suggests. The report also notes that the European Union's enlargement policy has contributed to peace, prosperity, security and stability in Europe. That is something I disagree with. On the contrary, too fast an enlargement policy has caused the European Union to become crippled in terms of economic policy, for example, the debt-responsible package called the Recovery Package, which aims to stabilise the countries that are poorly run by their economies and to keep them in the monetary union without forgetting the risk-loans. Such solidarity creates confrontation and tensions between countries and serves as a foothold for the EU's efforts to deepen integration towards a federal state. In fact, the European Union is trying to obtain a large-scale status such as the USA, Russia and China, and this appears to be happening in the EU at the expense of the smaller Member States, without any means at all. Unfortunately, Finland and, in particular, the current Red Mulletasian Government, which is actually run by the Greens, is one of these blue-eyed hunks. And the people will pay. Fortunately, the British withdrawal from the Union gave a momentary setback to the EU's bullies, to plans that violate their own rules. Mr President! In short, the more open and unlimited the world becomes, the more unstable it becomes in all sectors. Is this, then, a good development, the new normal that has only been satisfied with the need to address the increasing problems and challenges as well as we can as a small country? I do not think there is a good development.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u201	Thank you. — Ladies and gentlemen, although there are only so many people in this Chamber at the moment, these common rules of the game have been agreed to be followed. 5 minutes is the recommended limit, after which you can ask to speak again once you have had it. — Representative Pia Kauma absent. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u202	Mr President! This report on foreign and security policy is a very balanced whole, but it must be said that it is not particularly ambitious in terms of cyber security and cyber threats, but that these issues are stated in the report only cursorily. Well, fortunately, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has given more attention to cyber issues in its report, and it has identified important points in this area. I could actually say that, when reading this report, we should always look at the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at least with regard to cybersecurity, so that we can get an overall picture of what is in this house. Cyber threats are developing rapidly. In Finland, we have examples of unpleasant events affecting Finnish civil society, such as this case of the Suomessamo last year. Typical of these cyber threats is that the difference between a military attack, crime and an attack by an individual hacker can be difficult to do. Therefore, we should, in order to maximise our own security thinking here, all this cyber activity — cyber attacks, cyber risks — treat as if together, and collect the management and response of the threats involved, as well as other investigative work under the same roof. Of course, the Defence Forces are making and responsible for military cyber defence, but, as I said, this is a much wider phenomenon than just the activities of its sector. And how would we know? Perhaps a possible future attack on Finland may well begin as a cyber attack on civil society, so that it may not even be thought of as military in the first place. Now that these cyber problems have been resolved, there has been a debate in Finnish society — and there has been a good debate — a lot of experts have pointed out that we do not really have anyone in charge of this whole cybersecurity. Perhaps we as a parliament should pay more attention to this in the future, so that this whole area of cybersecurity should be brought under one roof. For example, would it be sufficient for the Prime Minister's Office or for the Ministry of Transport and Communications and then for the Prime Minister's Office to carry out its cybersecurity management in such a way that the measures are at least as effective as they are?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u203	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u204	Mr President! I consider it exceptionally valuable that we should be able to find a common note in foreign and security policy, so to speak. This is reflected, among other things, in the fact that, when the report of this government, which has been made on this matter, has been carefully examined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, then all the political parties in this Chamber will be able to sign it together. Mr President, a small country should foster a consensus on foreign and security policy, a consensus. We cannot afford to argue on these fundamental issues. Mr President, it was a pleasure to listen here recently to the speeches made by the representatives of Simula, Peltokangas and Koponen, which have been made just above this point. I think there were a lot of things that we share together. And now, in the spirit of consensus, that we are adopting this report here together, I will try to find in it what I share with you, the concerns you raised. The big one, Mr President, is the understanding of a broad concept of security in Finland's foreign and security policy. We recognize security as something other than traditional military threats. We recognize that there are problems with safety. Mr Simula has made an excellent speech here, emphasising, among other things, the problems of uncontrolled immigration, international crime and terrorism for societies. That is right, they all relate to this broad concept of security, they are major phenomena. And thank you for raising them so strongly in your own speech. We share them all as part of this broad concept of security. This broad concept of security then involves many other phenomena, including the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, of course environmental disasters, environmental disasters. Climate change, in which we may have different accents, but which is still a common human problem, is also part of this broad concept of security. Fragmentation societies are also clearly a similar phenomenon. And in this respect, I think we have a common emphasis on this issue. The second term, which was strongly mentioned in Mr Peltokangas' speech and was also mentioned in Mr Simula's speech, was human rights. In your own speech, you made a strong reference to the human rights of Finns — that is, Finns as part of humanity — which we must respect. And I think that in this Chamber we all share this concern. We must respect universal human rights. Every person has a fundamental right to life, and we must respect it. Otherwise, one of the fundamental human rights is also the right of movement, the freedom of movement. And I'm sure we share the fact that the world is getting smaller. Among other things, the phenomenon of immigration, which is often unmanageable, is primarily due to the world's decline, the fact that we fall in love across borders. In other words, we have family ties in the present world, in an integrated world, beyond what is a traditional nation state. Surely we share this together because we all recognize this need that people also have: to be emotionally committed to people of different kinds, people from other lands. And this is the biggest transition that immigration brings. You did not talk about immigration in detail, but it can certainly be pointed out that there is a difficult phenomenon of labour migration which is clearly aimed at deliberately exploiting vulnerable workers from abroad. We share this great concern. I believe that here too the House shares this understanding. In this respect, we must be more precise than what has been before. In your speech, Mr Peltokangas, you also pointed out, as I recall, that there is a problem of decay in the EU — if I used the term correctly. That's what I'm worried about, too. And that is precisely what we all share in my view, Esko Kiviranta shares this same concern, that we have a situation where the security situation in Finland is very important — and now it is a matter of great security — that we are part of a common European structure, and there that security supplement is not military security, certainly not primarily, but we all share the idea that it is cohesion security. We are involved in a common system in which we interact in many ways, because we solve problems at European level that do not respect the borders of nation states. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u205	Thank you. — Congressman Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u206	Mr President! Finland is not exposed to the threat of war or military crisis. Finland’s long line, which maintains military non-alignment and active and confidential relations with neighbouring countries, supports the stability of the Baltic Sea region. The structures for European cooperation and Nordic cohesion and cooperation strengthen our security. Russia's actions in Ukraine, as well as the arms trade between Russia and NATO, have increased the use of force and has also tightened the situation in the Baltic Sea region. The strained atmosphere has caused Finland and Sweden to invest in arms and intensify their military cooperation. Both countries are discussing mutual defence alliances and NATO membership. Mr President! Finland should not join NATO as it would weaken Finland's relatively stable security environment. NATO had to understand its place after the Second World War, but, especially with the end of the Cold War, NATO has become an increasingly important tool for the power policy of the United States and the former European powers. As a result of NATO membership, Finland's military neutrality would become a pawn in the power politics of the major powers and would increase Finland's military spending to uncontrollable proportions. Global security is also being undermined by the world’s accelerated armaments. According to the Swedish SIPRI Research Institute, more money is now being spent on weapons than ever since the Cold War, for example. In a year, over EUR 1500 billion will be spent on arms in the world, almost twice as much as the EUR 1000 billion lost every year in the EU as a result of tax avoidance by the rich. And at the same time, even at the corner of the station, young summer workers are gathering tens for their organizations from the common people so that they can help the children who suffer in the feet of war. Finland is also involved in investing in the wrong value choices. Preparations for the Defence Forces procurements, in particular fighter acquisitions, would significantly increase Finland's military spending in the coming years. As a result of the acquisition of the destroyer, the defence budget increased by more than 50% and their life-cycle costs are likely to be tens of billions of euros. A better security policy would also be to spend that money on people's well-being. The current threats, such as climate change, global pandemics and cyber threats, are certainly not a military solution. Mr President! It is prosperity that promotes peace. In a society where the weakest are cared for and where people live together without hate speech, the guarantees of peace are also better. The best security policy is to combat inequality. Education, for example, plays an important role in the fight against poverty here at home and globally. Reducing health inequalities is also of enormous importance. Displacement and loneliness must be combated, and low-threshold mental health services must be strengthened. A prosperous person is more likely to seek and pursue peace. Equality does not cause people to hump against each other, and society is not fragmented and pottered. As societies and people are unequaled, the rich seek more and more for themselves, and as the poor become poorer, populists around the world begin to drive the disadvantaged against one another and poison society with hatred. Sooner or later, countries that have fallen into such a situation will also end up in a foreign policy or even a military conflict. That is why internal security, well-being and equality as building blocks are the most important security policy. Building a society that cares about everyone is an ongoing process and the welfare state must be defended for every political decision. In Mahatma Gandhi’s words: “There is no way to peace, but a way to peace.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u207	Thank you. — Representative Savola absent. Congressman Holopainen, Hanna, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u208	Mr President! We are reviewing Parliament's views and comments on the Government's report on foreign and security policy. The parliamentary committees have carried out thorough work on the report, and these remarks will certainly provide a good basis for further discussions on security. It is particularly important that a broad security perspective will be taken into account in the future in the security debate and also in the allocation of resources. It is important that these Government Security Reports provide a coherent picture of security in the operating environment. The challenges identified and described in this report on foreign and security policy under discussion are in many respects common to both internal and external security. It is therefore important that we identify these interfaces and ensure that artificial administrative boundaries do not hinder effective action, but that we are able to make the most effective and effective use of the resources of the safety authorities, for example. We must also ensure that there are no arbitrages, cooperation between the authorities works and that the situation is always shared and up-to-date. The importance of cyber security, protection against hybrid and information impact has been highlighted in the report. This protection also requires expertise and activity from non-state actors and security authorities. In the future, hostile external actors are increasingly seeking and exploiting our non-military weaknesses. We must also ensure that Finns, as individuals, are prepared to protect themselves against cyber attacks, identify fake information and help to combat attempts to influence hostile forces. These actors often target decision-makers and influence the decision-making process. Impact can also take place through the so-called general public using different media platforms. Impact can be one of the main reasons for democracy, for example by undermining confidence in elections and the rule of law. Our decision-makers must be particularly responsible for not contributing to the climate of distrust and the spread of false information that undermines social peace. Mr President! Ultimately, as the Committee on Defence states in its opinion, the crisis-resistance of Finnish society is about the functioning of society, based on mutual trust and spirit, and it is important for us to prevent the formation of internal dividing lines that an external actor could take advantage of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u211	Thank you. — Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u212	Mr President! As unhindered and open international trade as possible is the undeniable advantage of our export-driven economy. From the point of view of international trade rules, the World Trade Organisation (WTO) is a key player and it is advantageous for Finland if its role is strengthened. In recent years, the WTO has faced challenges as protectionist thinking increases. The WTO and its dispute settlement system are in a difficult situation in the face of major power competition undermining their structures. Mr President! A stable and predictable operating environment is very important for Finland. This applies both to the economic and security policy environment. International organisations, such as the WTO, play a key role in creating stability. Efforts to reform the WTO system must be continued and solutions must be sought with a wide range of compromises. An effective system of dispute resolution mechanisms is in the interests of all States Parties, including the major economies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u213	Thank you. — Mr Hopsu is absent, Mr Hoskonen is absent. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u214	Mr President! At this stage, there is not much to add to the debate. I think that the international role of Finland has been well addressed here, and, as has just been rightly stated here, it is extremely important that we have internal cohesion, that we have a common will, a common will to defend the country and a strong enough defence force and that we are also able to combat cyber attacks. And, of course, it is important to develop cooperation between the Western community. NATO membership would be an excellent thing, but as long as it does not exist, it is important to develop bilateral relations with the West, especially with the United States, but also with Sweden and Norway, and of course to develop this defence of the European Union and cooperation between the EU and NATO. Mr President! However, I asked for this speech because I would like to remind you of the danger of the decline in the development of democracy in the world in general and in this area close to us. Belarus is now the latest example; Hong Kong is the same type. There have also been developments in Russia in recent times that have not been in the right direction, and it has also been reflected in the security situation in the region. In other words, it would be extremely important to be able to strengthen democratic forces in the world as much as possible, because democracy and peace have a clear link. It is also the case that if a country turns democracy into authoritarianism or takes steps in an authoritarian direction, it is not, however, for the good of their citizens either. Here, too, there are examples in the Western world, even though Brazil is the last to mention it. So it is a very important question that we should have in the big global picture, which I am talking about here, that democracy should not be forced to retreat, but that democracy should be the growing idea so that more people in the world can live in a country where leadership is democratically elected, non-governmental organisations and the media can operate freely and people have individual rights and the rule of law works. Finland must strive to promote this development insofar as it is in our hands, and it is also best for our own security to make progress in the democratic process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u216	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u217	Mr President! This report on foreign and security policy will come at the best possible time. Over the past year, the world has changed very much in a less secure direction, in a more troubled direction, which will certainly create something for Finland to think about from now on. Finland's position internationally is stable, thanks to the wise policy that has been pursued since the wars, in all sectors. From those moments we have turned into a welfare state, a state capable of caring for its citizens and also capable of building good, reliable relations with all our neighbours and also with other foreign powers. Finland has done well in the European Union, UN cooperation is well known all over the world, and Finnish peacekeepers around the world today receive great respect and appreciation for the work done well and, above all, for the expertise that a Finnish soldier in UN missions has done over the last decades. Thank you have not come in vain, it is a sign of good knowledge and know-how. On the defence side, we have done a very valuable job. General military service guarantees us that the defence spirit in this country is very good. We are able to train a strong reserve that will certainly be able to operate in all situations and ensure that Finnish defence can be handled in all circumstances throughout Finland. I can say with a little humor, I think the Defence Forces are the only organization in this country for which every square metre of Finland is equally valuable. This should also spread to that aspect of regional policy more generally, because we feel that this enthusiasm for concentration is continuing, not much more respected as to whether there is life there in my municipality of Ilomants — For the Defence Forces, defending the Ilomants border is certainly as important as defending the Western border. A credible defense needs adequate training. An adequate reserve also needs training, and that is what we organise in refresher exercises. Of course, it needs a credible defence, good equipment and, above all, up-to-date equipment. In this debate, too, we also need to do what has been mentioned several times, and we need to ensure that the soldiers who work for it have good tools to do its work and that the control of the inviolability of Finnish airspace is still carried out with the same degree of confidence. Finland is a Western country that enjoys European respect and universal respect. Everyone knows that we are the rule of law, which fulfils its commitments and, above all, is able to act independently even in difficult situations. Once this has been recognised in various forums in that world, our lives have been much easier in recent years. The risk that I think has risen to the sky, the big risk, is the development that is coming through the European Union. This debt union, which was set up in the recovery package, is a threat that will tear the European Union apart in the coming years. After the original EU Schuman speech, it was set up as a common peace alliance in which nations trade with one another for the reason that wars in Europe would no longer be seen. Now, when we start transferring these debts to one another and paying bills on behalf of others, it will certainly lead at some point to the seed of strife being sown — it has already been sown. And then, if there comes the second recovery package, which I am afraid it will have an impact on the internal state of the European Union, I am sure. I think it would be a miracle if this were not the case. I do not wish that to happen, but I fear that this will happen, and it will also lead to the fact that, when relations between the Member States of the European Union become more intense, it will inevitably lead to some foreign policy conclusions for other countries. I don't want that either. Finally, Mr President, on security of supply. Mr Kiviranta recently raised the importance of security of supply with merit in this same debate, and I would like to say that on this issue, Finland has made decisions which are extremely fatal in terms of security of supply. Last Friday I was driving towards home, and there is still a huge truck army across the Russian border that drives wood chips and peat to Finland. That decision will lead in a year's time to lose an important part of security of supply when we no longer have security of supply stocks and will lead to our being dependent on abroad. And, Mr President, finally, the corona. The interest has shown it,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u218	Thank you. — Mr Kari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u219	Mr President! Of course, foreign and security policy is based on an assessment of the coming time, but the main line of foreign and security policy is taken from history, of course, also from recent history. You have to feel the past to be able to evaluate the future a little before it happens. That is why this report on foreign and security policy contained one point which I, as a member of the follow-up group to the report on foreign and security policy, kept constantly on the agenda, and it remained in the final report and is reflected in that report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That is the point that Mr Hoskonen referred to here, in national terms, that our security situation has been getting worse and worse. This is such a general description of the situation, which, however, includes a considerable number of different details. This same phrase was in the previous government's report on foreign and security policy, and I asked when the report was now being made, how many of the next reports could we say that this has continued to go downhill, and at what point should we start to fear our own written text? However, it is good to remember that when this expression came to the UTP report, we had the situation of Crimea and Eastern Ukraine escalated, as a result of a massive influx of refugees throughout Europe and Syria, which, as it were, escalated its influx of refugees, and, in addition to this sort of testing of the great powers, even the Proxy war was called in some contexts. Now, however, the world situation is not so worrying, even though these phenomena continue to emerge in the form of different air-piratisms and in the form of questioning an international rule-based system. That is why, and as a result, I am encouraging all my colleagues to pursue and follow up foreign and security policy, so that, in a way, this overall picture can be passed on even more closely than just a large brush, and above all so that Finland can act more decisively together in these matters. I thought at first that I would not say, but, so to speak, I am very disturbed by the fact that, in this Chamber, for example, the Finns of Finland want to give the impression that immigration, as one aspect of foreign and security policy, is, as it were, a problem created by some other parties. It is good to remember, however, that even here the representative referred to the attack in Turku, for example, that this also happened during the previous government, at a time when the Finns themselves were the Government Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u220	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u221	Mr President! Foreign and security policy is all the more important to us when you think about what has happened in recent years. The security of our country is threatened by a great many things. In my own office, I have listened to these speeches, very praiseworthy speeches — thank you for them. Foreign and security policy is a very serious matter, and it is very good that such a report has been made and dealt with very seriously. As far as each other's accusations are concerned, I consider it to be a truly beneath-value activity to accuse of being responsible, for example, for the terrorist attack in Turku.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u224	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TrVM 1/2021 vp of the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided. — I will open the debate. Statement by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u225	Mr President! The Annual Report of the National Audit Office is based on the results of the Agency's work and covers all types of audits and its expert activities. The report gathers findings from several audits into four themes: firstly, the uncertainty of forecasts must be taken into account in the pursuit of a budgetary balance; secondly, government finances can be supported by budgetary consolidation; thirdly, employment needs accurate information on the effectiveness of means; fourthly, investment needs to be looked at throughout their life cycle. The report also reports on the work of the Audit Office. In its report, the Audit Committee has focused in particular on the theme of promoting employment. In addition, the committee highlights the comments made on the basis of the audits carried out by the Audit Office and the uncertainty surrounding the financial forecasts. The promotion of employment has been one of the main objectives of the most recent government programmes. However, the employment rate alone does not reflect the success of employment policy. In recent years, various reforms and experiments have been carried out in employment services. The share of digital services has increased. However, e-service does not always replace personal service. The Audit Office states that self-employed and independent job search cannot be done by all customers, but that some of the customers need personal advice and guidance. The committee agrees with the opinion of the Audit Office and stresses that there are still a large number of people who need personal services in order to be employed. During the current government term, new municipal employment trials are being carried out. According to the Inspectorate, the employment tests must be based on carefully designed test systems. The results of the experiments should be systematically monitored and made subject to quality and comparable impact assessments. It should also be ensured that the results of the evaluations are used in the development of the measures. The committee agrees with the opinion of the Audit Office that precise information on the effectiveness of the means is needed in the management of employment. The Committee notes that employment policy must improve the knowledge base and ensure that policy measures are implemented in such a way that their impact can be assessed ex post. The Committee also notes that the use of existing information in policy planning is incomplete and decisions should be based on information when available. Part of the reason why the most efficient employment services are also offered is because services have objectives other than direct employment. For all jobseekers, fast employment in the open labour market is not a realistic objective. According to the Audit Office, the assessment of the impact on employment must also take account of the individual. Even temporary work can support well-being and prevent exclusion. The Audit Committee agrees with the opinion of the Audit Office and notes that services can have positive effects, for example in the form of better life management, even when services do not directly help to find employment. The Committee is of the opinion that more detailed information is needed on the effectiveness of the measures in the management of employment. The knowledge base needs to be improved and the way and implementation of the impact assessment should be resolved when new employment measures are planned. Existing information should also be better used in policy planning. The Audit Committee has therefore decided on 29 April 2021 to commission a study on the cost-effectiveness of active labour policy services. The Audit Office issued 65 audit reports, of which 75% were so-called clean, i.e. no shortcomings in the financial statements of their accounting units or in the financial management procedure. In its audit report, the Audit Office takes a position on three issues: whether the annual accounts and operational efficiency are correct and adequate, whether internal control is effective, and whether the budget has been respected? Eight accounting units have received comments annually for at least the last four years, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Finnish Immigration Service, the State Financial and Personnel Administration Service Centre, the State Information and Communication Technology Centre Valtori, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Väylä Agency, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Development and Administration Centre of the Ely Centres and Employment Offices. The Committee welcomes the fact that, according to the Agency, government finances have been largely managed in accordance with the regulations. The number of accounting units having received comments has been on level with the previous year and decreased from two previous years. In accordance with its earlier statement, the Audit Committee considers it the most serious issue from the point of view of Parliament to be the exceedance of appropriations or powers. The committee stresses the responsibility of the Audit Office for monitoring the shortcomings and errors it has identified. The committee also finds it problematic that the same agencies receive repeated comments and suggests that consideration be given to how the Agency could improve its requirements, if the obligation to notify the Agency's management does not lead to a correction of the situation or if there are comments to be made on various issues each year. The ageing population and as a result the sustainability gap in public finances remain one of the key challenges of economic and fiscal policy in Finland. Therefore, assessments of the sustainability of public finances and the long-term risks to public finances are important in shaping the direction of economic policy. The Audit Office has carried out audits of the mid-term and long-term estimates of the Ministry of Finance. The Audit Office draws attention to the uncertainty surrounding these estimates and the transparency of the reporting by the Ministry of Finance. According to the Agency, the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance are of high quality and produced with high expertise. However, the use of estimates in the design of economic policy should take into account the high uncertainty involved in this type of calculation. The uncertainty inherent in long-term sustainability assessments is particularly high and should not be used as a starting point for the fiscal dimension according to the recommendations of the Audit Office. Instead, sustainability assessments serve as a good starting point for determining the need for structural reforms. In its latest report, published in January 2021, the Economic Policy Review Council notes that Finland suffers from a major sustainability problem. According to the Council, the uncertainty in the sustainability assessments is not a reason not to take action. With sound policy measures, public finances would be on a sustainable basis even when the negative risks facing them are realised. In recent years, the Audit Committee has also drawn attention to the uncertainty surrounding economic forecasts and the sustainability of public finances. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Finance has begun to develop medium and long-term estimates and has continued to draw up and publish methodological descriptions for these calculations. The committee also repeats its previous comments that the uncertainty surrounding the calculation of budgetary policy and the calculation of the target should always be clearly stated to both the Government and Parliament when drawing on these calculations. Finally, the committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u226	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u227	Mr President! I will raise a few points for myself after a good presentation. First of all, the work of the National Audit Office: The Agency is doing important work, and this report also shows this. It is important for the Agency to be independent and to be able to decide for itself on the subjects of the audit it wishes to carry out independently. As the law on the National Audit Office says, the agency is independent, not controlled from outside. This report of ours raised these points. As the chairman of the committee said when the ministries, agencies and a few funds were audited, the majority of the audited received clean papers, 75%, but in reverse, of course, that means that there were shortcomings in the quarter of the audited ones. And the unfortunate thing about this is that eight accounting units have received a comment every year for at least the last four years. Well, what can we do about it? We note here in the report that VTV's possibilities are limited to the fact that they can require the management of accounting units to notify the management of the corrective measures taken in this respect. Now that these have come to some of the same services each year, one year after the year, it obviously is not enough, and we are proposing in this report that consideration should be given to how the Agency could improve its requirements if the obligation to notify the Agency's management does not lead to a correction of the situation or to comments on various issues each year. I am not quite sure, but it has just come to my mind that, if there are such constant remarks for some, then, at least for those years, no performance fees should then be allocated to management if they are not taken seriously. Then I picked up one point here: ‘According to the findings of the Audit Office,the calculation of the Ministry of Finance is of high quality and has been It is worth following them — there has been a debate in this Chamber that we can trust them. So, according to this, we can rely on the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, they have been made with good expertise. All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u228	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u229	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for a good and thorough presentation of the report. And I agree with Mr Kiuru that the National Audit Office is doing a very important and worthwhile job, and that is also reflected in this report. In this speech, I would like to comment on two points raised by the Committee on Budgets in its report: firstly, the promotion of employment and, secondly, the comments made on the basis of the audits carried out by the National Audit Office. Firstly, a few words on the promotion of employment. The committee has also taken a position on this issue in previous reports and has stated, like the Inspectorate, that precise information on the means of managing employment is needed. There is some research but not enough. The Committee therefore points out that employment policy must improve the knowledge base and ensure that policy measures are implemented in such a way that their impact can be assessed ex post. It should also be borne in mind that, whenever available, researched information should be used in policy planning. In other words, more systematic efforts must be made towards decision-making based on research evidence. The Audit Committee wishes to contribute to obtaining research information on this important issue and this spring it has decided to commission a study on ‘The cost-effectiveness of an active labour policy’. Of course, it is important to remember that employment services can have objectives other than direct employment. For all jobseekers, fast employment in the open labour market is not necessarily a realistic objective, and therefore the assessment of the impact on employment must also take into account the individual. Even temporary work can support overall well-being and prevent exclusion. For example, the service can have positive effects in the form of better life management, even when the services do not help you directly to find employment. The Audit Office had also made important comments on the digitisation of services and stated that electronic services cannot always replace personal services in employment services. For example, the inspection carried out by the Audit Office revealed that the average duration of the unemployment period was extended for two to three weeks in the localities where the offices of the TE Office were closed down. Self-employed and independent job search is not possible for all customers, but also requires guidance, advice and walking alongside them. Mr President! Secondly, the Audit Committee has drawn attention to the comments made on the basis of the audits. The audit of the audit agency found shortcomings for every fourth audit. It is particularly worrying that the same accounting entities receive repeated comments. Eight accounting units have received a comment each year for at least the last four years. In addition, seven accounting entities were found to be in breach of the budget and its provisions. In such cases, the Audit Office may issue a negative statement of legality, which may contain identified legality notes, and the Audit Office has therefore had to make such observations. The comments relate, inter alia, to the fact that the appropriation has been used for the wrong financial year or for purposes different from those allocated to it in the budget. Comments were also made on the use of powers. President! In conclusion, there must be some problems in the process or management if the same problems are repeated year after year and the feedback is not learned. The committee therefore proposes that consideration be given and that consideration be given to how the Agency could make its demands more effective if the obligation to notify the Agency's management does not lead to a correction of the situation or if there are other points to make on a yearly basis. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u230	Thank you. — Representative Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u231	Mr President! A few comments are most important from the annual report of the National Audit Office and from the report of the Audit Committee. In 2019 the Agency issued 65 audit reports, of which a quarter received no clean papers. Weaknesses were identified in the financial statements or in the financial management procedure. This is an important and alarming issue. The most worrying thing is that year after year the same agencies will receive comments on their activities: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Finnish Immigration Service, State Financial and Human Resources Service Centre, State Information and Communication Technology Centre Valtori, Ministry of Education and Culture, Väylä Agency, Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Centre for the Development and Management of Ely Centres and Employment Offices. There is a real need to clean up these agencies and find out what is poking around in business and in the economy. However, we are discussing the funds raised from taxpayers and it is not appropriate to spend them in any way from one year to the next. At its most extreme, the Audit Office may require the management of the agencies and organisations to provide a list of measures taken to remedy the situation. This is not enough when year after year the problems are repeated. In turn, seven audited departments identified cases of non-compliance with the budget and related provisions. The appropriations have therefore been misused, either in the wrong year or for wrong purposes. The Finnish Immigration Service, two copies, and the National Board of Education, three copies received the most legal notes. The report of the Audit Committee states that this time a number of comments were also related to the exercise of powers. The majority of Finnish agencies and state-level organisations work well, but the continuing problems in financial management and in keeping with the accounts or the budget are undermining public confidence. Mr President! Unfortunately, public confidence has also been undermined by the activities of the National Audit Office and, in particular, its Director General, Tytti Yli-Viikar. After all, in panic, when a Finn thinks that all taxes have now been paid and how I inform the Tax Administration of this or that result, benefit or deduction, the state administration and the Directors-General are pigging on the benefits and making expenses that are not justified in any way. Most recently, the Evening Sanomat reported on VTV's massive consulting services that have been burned... [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne :Mr Simula, we are dealing with the report of the National Audit Office for ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u236	And then Mr. Koponen, Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u237	Mr President! In its report, the Audit Committee has rightly and as expected paid particular attention to the theme of promoting employment, which has been one of the main objectives of all the most recent governments. The 75% employment rate target of the Marin government will not succeed, as the majority of new jobs are temporary or part-time jobs only a few hours a week, with a modest role in increasing tax revenues and strengthening public finances. However, the government programme rests on that 75% employment. The Ministry of Finance also estimates that there are more employment measures that are weakening, and these proposals are being dropped here in Parliament's big hall with the right amount of work. The Annual Report also speaks harsh truth about the lack of functioning of employment services. Although several reforms and experiments have been carried out in TE Services in recent years, the objectives of increasing customer satisfaction and the efficiency and efficiency of the services have not been achieved. At least the situation has not improved as the corona crisis has congested the offices in an unprecedented way. And with regard to the previous speech, I must say that these cases are probably just the tip of the iceberg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u238	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u239	Mr President! Here again the Annual Report of the National Audit Office is being discussed for Parliament. As long as I have been in this house, we have indeed received this annual report from the Audit Office, and here is exactly the same thing as the corresponding report from the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Ombudsman, which is brought to us: I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a lot of information here that is often overlooked and that would help us if it were taken into account in our activities and in the subsequent decisions and committees. So you might want to read these carefully. Many times it happens that we accept this, but we do not focus so much on that content. For example, when you take this annual report from the Audit Office, it is not just what this Audit Office has done, but, as the title says here for example, ‘the Audit Office provides information for future needs’. This is what we should be able to take advantage of. Here, for example, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen made an excellent speech, as has Mr Kiuru and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. They pointed out the fact-based decision-making that is taking place here, and then the fact that, when there have already been agencies that have received towels of their own, the errors have not been corrected. And I think it was a very good observation from the Committee on Audit that, if we get some results from those checks, then we should somehow consider together with the organisation how to correct those errors. I would just like to say briefly that the specific priority here is this active employment policy and employment services. And this is a very good thing, by the way, that this has been raised here, because yes, Finland is entirely dependent on it. Now that the maiden Finland eats more than money, it is entirely up to us to raise employment. The situation here is that we need social and health care reform, we need social welfare reform, that is, social security reform. After all, we saw last season, when we were preparing this social reform, that our problem is that services and benefits do not meet, they are given a little like a different boutique, and they do not meet each other, especially in the person who needs it. And, among other things, this raises here the importance of active labour policy and employment services, and then, when we get that social reform, that is where the synergy comes from. I think it is a good thing that we are looking at this properly, and it is good that the committee is also going through this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u240	Thank you. — And Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u241	Mr President! I also wanted to comment on this in order to promote employment. It is, of course, a good thing that the Committee of Auditors is looking into this matter and is looking into it, but it is a little bit of a question in that sense that this has now been taken up quite a number of times. I think we are now going to have a third trial of local government when we are moving this employment care to municipalities, and now we are also becoming a model for this Nordic job search. I am in favour of both of these, but I am a little surprised that, when we already have so much research data, but also some very concrete data that, when Denmark and Sweden, for example, have reformed their labour markets, how it has affected the employment rate, how it has affected the number of long-term unemployed — those reforms have been very positive in their entirety — can we not take into account this international research data or what is found in these countries? I do not believe that human behaviour in Finland is so different from what it is in Sweden or Denmark, if the system is quite similar and is similar to us. I must say that I would like to see the indisputable facts that have been produced in these countries when this issue is being clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u242	Thank you. — And Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u243	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I wanted to thank Mr Risikko for this speech, or at least to some extent, I was pleased to draw attention to it. I myself am the Vice-President of the Committee on Audit and then a member of the Committee on the Future, and when I work intensively in these two committees, I have come to the conclusion that these two committees are doing very important work in this House for the benefit of this country as a whole and that the results of the work of these two committees should be used better in decision-making. It has opened up to me that we should strive to plan activities through foresight and risk management based on research evidence much better than is currently being done, and then evaluate the decisions taken and their effectiveness. In that way we would perhaps be able to develop this society more systematically than what is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u244	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u245	Mr President! The Library of Parliament serves the Parliament and the whole Finnish society. It is open to all citizens. The library will be 150 next year. The Library of Parliament acts as the central archive of Parliament and as a central library for the provision of public legal information, social information and parliamentary information. The year 2020 was exceptional due to the interest rate, but the Library of Parliament has served Parliament without interruption. Citizens have also been able to visit e-mail, telephone and online and participate in online training organised by the library. When the library space is closed, citizens have been able to borrow library material by pre-ordering and picking up their orders by means of special arrangements required by health safety. This possibility was also used diligently until November the arrangement had to be abandoned in the face of a pandemic situation. At the heart of the library is the digital library system. The Alma library system was renewed in cooperation with nearly twenty university and specialised libraries. Two years of preparation culminated in summer 2020 when Alma was successfully introduced. The project employed many of the staff and was a major effort for the entire library. The new system will significantly improve the library's ability to develop digital content services, among other things. Another major information system project is the Halti project, which digitises the case management of the Parliamentary Office. The deployment phase of the system started in autumn 2020 and will continue until the end of this year. The Library of Parliament is a member of the Information and Communication Department of the Parliamentary Administration. In the summer of 2020 the President set up a working group to consider the reorganisation of the Information and Communication Department. The aim is to create a model that would better support service production in a rapidly changing environment in the information and communication sector. The working group submitted its final report in December 2020. The Government of the Library of Parliament hopes that, despite possible organisational changes, the name of the Library of Parliament, which will be 150 years old next year, will remain unchanged and that the library will remain open to everyone in the future. The Committee on Culture also stressed in its report 1. 1 October 2020 the importance of the library's openness. Mr President! There is no statistical reference for 2020 in the past. The exceptional volumes of use of the library remain in the statistics as a historical rarity. Despite the difficult situation, the tasks laid down in the Law were secured. In the reporting year 50582 loans and loan renewals were made. The Parliamentary Information Service received 1355 mandates in the operating year. The customers included journalists, researchers, students, lawyers and other citizens. Around 10% of requests for clarification require several hours or even several days of information. A record number of legal project information packages, or 21, were produced. More than 112,000 online visits were made. Of the photo archive, 4670 loans were made. In the reporting year, the Veteran MPs’ memory archive conducted eight interviews with the veteran MPs. Researchers had 443 interviews at the end of the reporting year. The Board of Directors of the Library took a decision in the reporting year to change the name of the memory archive of veteran MPs from the beginning of 2021 to the memory archive of the Parliament. The decision was justified because interviews with non-former MPs are also being gathered in the archives. The training provided by the library continued despite the pandemic. Physical gatherings were replaced by online training on YouTube. Mr President! Library staff have acted in a committed and flexible way in a rapidly changing and uncertain situation throughout the pandemic. At the end of the year, 36 people worked in the library. Thank you to the staff for your valuable work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u246	Thank you. — Mr Aittakumpu is absent, Mr Kinnunen is absent. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u247	Mr President! This is where Mr Kiuru went through this library report for 2020, and we in the Committee on Education and Culture also made a statement on this. All in all, the library is at the heart of the culture and community of Finnish society. Now that there was a corona pandemic, we found that its significance increased tremendously when it became apparent that people could no longer go to that library. Of course, a lot of feedback came to us when the cultural services ran out, but no matter what, even libraries were closed, which had been thought that they could now be. Well, there was, of course, the good thing about seeing how important that library service is to municipalities and cities and how important it is for students, researchers, for all people to promote and enable community. There knowledge passes, information is provided, friendly people are met, and other people are met there. This corona was also quite a blow to the operation of libraries. The Library of Parliament has always worked, throughout my stay here, with great merit and professionalism. This is reflected in these requests for information, and it is reflected in how productive this library is and how much it does everything that we Members of Parliament do not even know here. This story sheds light on it and makes it clear to us. In this connection, as Chairman of the Committee on Culture and on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I would like to thank you for: The Library of Parliament, but also all those who participate in the development of the library — not only the staff, but also those of you who, as Members of Parliament, are involved in it. Library staff here in Parliament will very quickly tailor those services, always as we need them here, and the service we receive is very diverse and of high quality. And when the corona came, it also showed the resilience and flexibility of the crisis when suddenly new services were made and the library still worked, although there was no meeting. The library was recently opened and the operation was fully operational. I would also like to thank you for the information packages that the library has now taken as a focal point. So every time someone comes along like this... Now, lastly, we have a list of what is being said about bullying at school and preventing it and what legislative measures have been taken recently. Again, what has been done was very illustrative, and it is so wonderful that the library is doing this kind of help for all of us. I thank the library and hope that its appreciation will continue to grow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u248	Thank you. — And Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u249	Mr President! Very briefly: I would like to add my thanks to the people of the Library of Parliament, who have been the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Library, Mr Kiuru, and the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, Mr Risikko. The Library of Parliament is doing a really good job. In particular, I would have liked to draw attention to the proactive work undertaken by this library in order to produce these information packages on issues of social importance and appropriate topicality. It could even be described in this way that the library can answer before we Members of Parliament can even ask. In this respect, it is wonderful that we have such professionals available. Perhaps, in that sense, some thought was left over by what Mr Kiuru, as chairman of the library's board of directors, said in his own speech when he said that the library of the Parliament will continue to be called the Library of Parliament, that, at least now, it is not going to be such a project that the library will no longer be a library and, of course, as such, an institution open to all. I believe that the Finnish Parliament, as one of the oldest parliaments in Europe, has, of course, continued to earn itself a library which not only serves the work of our parliamentarians, but also is a valuable one, as it were, the key to this whole Finnish democracy and the gateway to it, so that the citizens can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u250	Thank you. — Brief reply, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u251	Mr President! Thank you for your good feedback to the library and library staff. To this organisational change, it is the government's wish that the name remain unchanged, regardless of how that organisation may change behind it. And the other message I brought in my speech is that the library would be an open library for all. The third thing I did not remember to say and came to my mind from the speech by Mr Auto, is that it is important that the Library of Parliament, as it were, is based on the law. After all, we now have a law on the Library of Parliament, and that is how, for example, this name comes out. What that organization is like back there is not our concern, but the name and the appreciation of history in that sense
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u252	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Satonen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u253	Mr President! This is a report from Yle's Board of Directors, and in that report a summary, a review by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the financial statement at the end of the report are actually an essential account of how Yle went in 2020 and what happened there on Yle. To begin with, Yle made a profit of more than 7 million in 2020, but this does not reflect the overall situation because all major sporting events, such as the European Football Championships and the Olympic Games, took place this summer. And these sporting events are so important that they shape Yle's income several million times a year, that is, every time there is a loss when there are significant sporting events and there is a profit when there are no major sporting events, even though they have now been carried out in cooperation with MTV, for example, and therefore responsibility has been shared. Mr President! This corona period was the one that dominated the whole of the past year, and during the corona period Yle became even more important. 96 per cent of Finns regularly used some of Yle's services, and even TV viewers rose significantly. News related to the interest rate, official Government briefings and corona news article reached millions of Finns. Yle also tried to meet the challenges of event and culture and sport by sending more Finnish music. The virtual concept of Yle Oloroom was also organised and more Finnish sport was presented. Similarly, cooperation with domestic production companies was further promoted. For the staff, the year was challenging. Much of the work was done at a distance and some of the workers were divided into groups in order to ensure that there were at least enough healthy workers to cope with this public service mission during the corona period. Indeed, this was an excellent success. The aim was also to promote a Finnish discussion culture, which, as we all know, has become quite aggravation in social media lately. It launched such a ‘Well-sayed—Brasagt’ project, which includes a large number of NGOs and also government management. Perhaps even more of Yle’s appreciation that Yle’s news is clearly considered more reliable than other TV channels and newspapers, not to mention social media. According to 64 per cent of Finns Yle has done her job well or very well, and if you count the answers that have given you quite well, then you are already at 91%. Mr President! In this context, perhaps a few words about the media's operating environment, because it also has a significant impact on the way Yle is placed in it. Of course, Yle's activities are governed by the Yle law, and Yle law is now being reformed. This matter is being discussed here in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and I am sure that it will then proceed to this Chamber during the autumn session. Members of the Committee on Transport and Communications will be able to explain this in more detail, but it is therefore a matter of the Media Union's complaint, which will probably lead to Yle's increasing focus on sound and visual materials in the future. Of course, rapid news situations are an important exception. In this context, it is also worth noting that Yle's Board of Directors has an ex-ante audit function, i.e. if Yle introduces a new service and has a competitive impact on other media, this matter must be dealt with separately by the Board of Directors, and then the parties concerned, such as the Media Union, are also consulted, i.e. we already have such a practice. Mr President! If the President will allow me to expand the debate to the extent that the topical issue is now this complaint by Mr Sanoma about learning content. Yle does not offer learning content in the curriculum at the moment, but Abitreen and this type of service have been provided by Yle Areena and above all by Yle Areena. And this Yle Areena is very popular. It has been even more popular in recent times and has also grown in popularity among people under 45 years of age. Yle has invested heavily in it, and this Yle It is precisely because of its scope that the arena is able to serve people who have a special interest. Whether it is a special interest in events or nature documents of a sport or in any particular field, Yle Arena is able to serve widely here. This is a special service among Finns, you can say, loved and enjoyed, and it would be quite a change to the Finnish system if Yle had to reduce his Arena activities. I hope that will not happen. Well, then, one thing that has a significant impact on this environment, and which is also mentioned in this 2020 report, is that the international environment is also changing. After all, we have lived for a long time that Google, Facebook and other big players have been eating the market, especially from Finnish commercial media, which has also partly been reflected in the fact that commercial media may have looked more closely at their own territory also in relation to YLE. But now there is a precedent in Australia that there has been a new agreement on income distribution so that domestic media companies also receive income from the materials that spread through global platform companies. It is interesting to see whether a similar arrangement can be achieved in the European Union. This would then also strengthen the position of domestic commercial media and, of course, the position of YLE vis-à-vis these international players. Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to say that I think it is very important that we have a strong Broadcasting Service, which performs its public service function, but in parallel we also need strong commercial media, provincial newspapers, local newspapers, commercial television and commercial radio broadcasting, and these are the only ones who, together, will be able to guarantee citizens sufficient access to information, which is the basis of our democracy as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u254	Thank you for the introduction. — And Mr Kiuru, Mr Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u255	Mr President! Thank you Arto Satonen, Chairman of the Board of Directors, for the presentation. Indeed, YLE is appreciated and, as they say here, 96% of Finns are in weekly contact with YLE services. The interest period has highlighted the importance of reliable communication and information. This does not mean, of course, that we should seek a monopoly. In Western society there must be a plurality — a number of channels of information, a number of media that serve citizens and, as it were, tighten each other up. I would like to raise one point when Mr Satonen mentioned the importance of sporting events for the economy. It says here that Yle and MTV For the first time in cooperation, Oy acquired rights for the football men’s World Cup in 2026. It is, of course, worth taking forward cooperation in this direction, so that we not only drive our own agenda but also seek cooperation opportunities when they clearly exist. The cost of purchasing matches is considerable and cooperation is worthwhile. My final point concerns the issue of Yle Arena. Indeed, as a friend of education and history, Yle Arena is an important cultural act, and even its partial dismantling or changing to the worse would be a very sad thing. It is appreciated and it is a functional concept worth sticking to. There is a place for the commercial media. If something works well, it is not as if it is worth lowering the level in that regard but, rather, pressing one another forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u256	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen's absence, Mr Aittakumpu's absence. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u257	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Satonen, Chairman of the Yle Board of Directors, presented the matter very well and... [First Vice-President AnttiRinne :Microphone!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u260	Thank you. — Representative Kari, Mika, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u261	Mr President! Of us, quite a few — at least the signatories, and I often say so — have their own culture based on three big base feet in Finland: the Finnish comprehensive school, the library and the Yleisradio teaching programmes. At least a generation born from it in the late 60s made further efforts in education and life, and I believe that this will continue to be the case. It is gratifying to hear the speeches of the Chairman of the Governing Board of the Finnish Broadcasting Company and their colleagues as defenders of Yle. We have things in common in this republic, many other symbolic and functional values in addition to our flag, and YLE is one of our key common issues. Whatever it is, during this same session we will be dealing with the Library of Parliament and the Yleisradio, two of these big stone legs. I would just like to express my strong support for the YLE, and I believe I speak for many colleagues as well. I have to say that at the time when Sanoma made this complaint public — I think it was the official name of the complaint — and I happened to look at the program where the group management told me this in English, there was a feeling about Edward Isto's famous painting An attack where a two-headed eagle tries to steal a book of laws from a lady in Finland. The feeling was just as strong that your hands were off the YLE. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u262	Thank you. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u263	Thank you, Speaker! Thankfully, YLE has carried out its role in promoting equality, tolerance and cultural diversity. They are really important goals for Yle, and Yle has also succeeded well in these matters. The objective of accessibility is also more closely integrated into the planning of the entire supply and customer experience, and this is particularly important for the equality of people with disabilities. With the entry into force of the Accessibility Directive, Yle has also played an important role in drawing up national quality recommendations for programme subtitles. Thank you for this, too. Other issues that are important for accessibility have also been developed in Yle, and it is even a pioneer in many ways, but from the point of view of the rights of people with disabilities, I hope that the same development will continue, as much remains to be done, for example, in direct texting, in sign language interpretation and in descriptive interpretation. So these are important issues for the equality of people with disabilities, and I hope that Yle will continue to invest in the development of these issues. This Yle Language School, which supports learning Finnish and Swedish, is also worthy of praise and benefits immigrants in particular. And at the end of the day, thank you also for promoting a constructive culture of discussion, which Yle has cooperated with the organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u264	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, President of the Management Board, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u265	Mr President! Perhaps a few comments on the comments made here. First of all, thank you all for those contributions. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised a very important issue which I forgot to mention here. While Yle is, as many say here, important for all, for special groups, it is particularly important because for them the supply of the commercial side is considerably lower because of the lower business opportunities. So it's extremely important. Then, when Mr Kari said that there were things that we would do together, this In this way, Yle has had a significant joint effort, at least for the time being — I myself have experience in drawing up a parliamentary group — that we have a very long tradition of decades, that all political parties together decide on the big lines of Yle. Those big lines are made in the parliamentary working group, then the Governing Board is more of a monitoring body and closer to its practical activities, and at least until now they have been done together, and that is a very valuable thing. I remember when I drew the previous parliamentary group that I visited both Swedish, Norwegian and British systems, and, for example, the BBC in Great Britain, which is such a mother of all broadcasters — if such a term can be used — to which everyone compares their own activities, for example, the opposition had no role in decision-making. So in that sense we were ahead of the system. What Mr Autto said about the development of this Nordic cooperation is done to some extent, including the exchange of programmes, but this aspect of the news was an interesting idea. This would probably be a good thing to put behind the ear, for this kind of information, as far as we are concerned, is also important. And of course YLE has what I did not say in that opening speech, an important network of foreign correspondents, and this is also an important role — even Helsingin Sanomat has some of it. It is very important that we get information from the world through Finnish journalists. However, that is always different from being solely on local news media, whether it comes from Washington or Moscow or Beijing or from anywhere. [MikaKarin intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u266	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Intelligence. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Pauli Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u267	Mr President! The current report of the Intelligence Supervisor for 2020 is the first full year of activity report. The legislation is new, and the 2019 activity report was therefore only for the rest of the year, which means that this report is now the first of its kind, although of course there are already some traditions here when this structure has been considered by the Intelligence Supervisor. I'll take a few comparisons. In recent weeks and months, some news has come from Denmark, where illegal intelligence has taken place, and it tells us how sensitive intelligence is. On the one hand, we are talking about security, but on the other hand we are talking about the right of citizens to privacy and the secret of communication. This is where we need to move, and it is very important to maintain confidence in it. There must be a strong culture of intelligence, and by that culture of intelligence I mean that respect for the law, the letter of the law and the spirit, must be strictly in the spinal cord and DNA of those who do the intelligence work, the law must be interpreted and measures taken. Work is important, but it is also important that none slip. We can't afford to lose trust. There are also a lot of similarities to this much-publicised issue of the National Audit Office in such a way that it must be very clear who is supervising, who is being reported to, and how and how is being done in those situations if there is even a slight suspicion that there has been a failure to act as it should have been. There must be no blind spots that leave any question marks and doubts that things cannot be intervened, do not want to intervene or do not dare to intervene. I understand that the silence that has now been around this intelligence legislation is a positive signal. The law was adopted for a long time, it was done in a number of committees, and it is obviously a working piece of legislation. At the end of this year, in accordance with the Government Programme, a report on intelligence legislation will be submitted to Parliament, which will then go further into possible areas of improvement if there are any. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u268	Thank you. — Mr Mustajärvi is absent, Mr Könttä is absent. — Mr Kari Mika, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u269	Mr President! At this evening's end, the report of the Intelligence Supervisor for 2020 will receive a reasonably small number of receptions in this Chamber. There's a little less of us. But it is good to point out what Mr Kiuru, as a member of the committee, pointed out that this is the report of the Supreme Legal Officer of the Civil and Military Intelligence Act of this Republic and of the Closest Legal Officer, the Intelligence Supervisor, for the first full year of its operation in 2020. The first report came from 2019, but from 2019 it was only the first six months of activity for which the authorised report was made. Now we have a whole year before us, and although this is only a referral debate, the committee has already started a little ahead of time, largely because of the interest rate situation, in the context of this report. For all those who are interested in the operation of the Civil and Military Intelligence Act, this authorised report gives a good and broad picture of what the full enforcement of the lawfulness of intelligence activities is and provides a good basis for the Committee on Intelligence to then assess the whole operation from the point of view, inter alia, of relevance. The report of the delegate is also a good illustration of the fact that the activity has begun to stabilise. Now, with some two years of experience, the various processes that can be found in the report of the Intelligence Commissioner to the public in an open, democratic society are very detailed. I could and would venture to say that there are certainly many multi-country countries in the world where the principles of intelligence are not shared with the public as openly as is done in this republic. And it is natural — and everyone understands it well — that there are a lot of things in this area that remain practically secret to the authorities and to the people to whom this information is believed. The fact that the Intelligence Supervisor and his office have received the first recruitments also indicates that the activity has become more stable. In addition to the delegate, two people work in the office, as reported in this report. The security facilities necessary for the operation have also been put in proper order. In the 2019 report, the Committee on Intelligence drew attention, inter alia, to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u270	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u271	Mr President! Mr Kari, Chairman of the Committee on Intelligence, and Mr Kiuru, Member of the Committee, spoke well, of course, they have a little deeper knowledge of this intelligence control as such when they are members of that committee. But to the layman, as it were, this report from the Intelligence Supervisor really gives a good impression that Finland is establishing a strong and good intelligence culture, and at least we can count on its supervision. This is demonstrated by the fact that Parliament, too, has definitely been equipped with the best powers to do this work in that committee. Mr President! Perhaps I am more concerned that, when the legislation of this kind of active intelligence has been obtained at a late stage in Finland and has taken off more actively than that inquiry, for example, this However, the example of Denmark shows that the game is quite tough here in the Nordic countries and Nordic partners or EU partners and NATO allies are ready to spy and then to carry out very impressive intelligence activities on behalf of third parties. Perhaps I am more concerned about the fact that our intelligence authorities have the necessary powers and resources to do their own work. I believe that we have this supervisory aspect of the operation in good shape, but that is what I am thinking that, in fact, Finland will certainly be able to cope with the fact that, when we have a strong culture and our authorities certainly comply with the law, the law gives us sufficient powers and that the resources are in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u272	Thank you. — And, Mr Kari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u273	Mr President! However, this intelligence activity is rarely discussed in Parliament, and it is great that it is possible from time to time to come to this Chamber to discuss this issue as well. It is a pity that today has come a long way and that there are very few colleagues. Today, a report on foreign and security policy was discussed for several hours in this Chamber, one of which, of course, also includes this area of activity, which I am allowed to chair in committee. And Mr Autto rightly referred also to this appropriateness of the action and also to the international impact in which intelligence activities naturally operate and where possible various excesses or different foreign policy risks also live. As a result, I would like to say to my colleagues and to those following this House that it is also important that such activities, such as the whole of intelligence activities, are subject to public debate, including the implementation of human rights and fundamental rights in the field of intelligence and other activities relating to intelligence, such as what Mr Autto referred to: what kind of foreign policy effects may even have on this type of failure that the world has seen around this sector. But in this context I would like to thank Parliament for this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u274	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-09-ps-73.u275	Mr President! On the basis of superficial reading, I would like to raise a few points about this report in this referral debate. Firstly, on the basis of the audit of the State’s financial statements, the State’s financial statements for 2020 have been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions. The annual report deals mainly with public finances in a comprehensive way, but according to the Audit Office, the situation of national budgetary governance regulations could be dealt with more broadly. The Audit Office then draws attention to the state budget and to the procedures which go against the main provisions relating to it, which at the same time violate the provisions of the Constitution relating to state finances. These procedures resulted in a negative legalisation of 11 accounting units. These errors are minor in the whole of central government finances, and in most cases they are also of a purely technical nature, but, in principle, this issue is significant. It is also important to note that the number of accounting units that have received negative legal statements and also the total number of negative legal statements has increased since 2019. These statements are not about misappropriation of state funds, but they must be taken seriously from the point of view of the financial management of these agencies, and that is what we have been talking about here before, a problem of the same kind. Well, the Audit Office also states in its report that the implementation of the main objectives of the Government Programme is well documented in a comprehensive way, but the objectives have been set somewhat unclearly and the indicators are also being used scarcely. For example, the state of sustainable development is closely reported, but reporting by ministries on sustainable development activities in their respective administrative areas is therefore inconsistent. Most of the objectives of the administrative sectors are broad societal impact targets, but only part of them indicate the criteria for assessing the achievement of the target, and this is still a major development challenge. Mr President! I made these remarks on the basis of a very superficial reading of the report, but we in the Committee on Audit are going to go into this matter in depth and in a broad sense, and then we will come back to this same theme later in the Chamber.
