ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask the representatives who wish to put a question to the ministers present, and I would now like to stress the words 'attendance to the ministers' to report to the P-button stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u2	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u3	Mr President! The right to move freely in the country is one of the most important fundamental rights of Finnish citizens. Government, you have not done everything before these planned restrictions on movement. The borders continue to leak coronavirus and, worst of all, its various variations to Finland. National closures and restrictions on movement do not benefit if the border leaks. The year has passed, and you have already released several virus variants into our country, prolonging the pain of citizens and businesses. My dear government, is this closure of borders to the government for ideological reasons something difficult, or what is the problem? Why do you prefer to restrict the fundamental rights of citizens rather than to require prior testing of those arriving in the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u4	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u5	Mr President! Thank you for the question. Finland's border policy, with regard to the conditions of entry, is one of the most stringent in the European Union. This is all about viral control, and the government's common will is that when the number of passengers has been reduced, about 95% of all movement has already decreased. Then everyone who comes to the country will be tested — this is where the municipalities and regional government are working and testing everyone at the borders. As a result, opening hours at border crossing points have been reduced and certain border crossing points have been closed. In other words, all means will be used, and of course the negative test certificate has also been promised to prepare at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. These means must be available to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u9	Mr President! Minister Ohio, you said “everything ” — I don’t know if that’s what you think. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has calculated that the planned mobility restrictions would result in a cost of EUR 1 billion per week for shops — from three weeks to 3 billion. According to the government’s own estimates, more than 10,000 people can be left out of work because you deny a visit other than at a grocery store, a pharmacy or similar. Good government, why do you not use specific measures, for example, in shopping centres and at home parties, to limit dribbling, but to punish everyone? You also punish those who have scrupulously followed these recommendations. Specific measures would be significantly less affected by fundamental rights than general restrictions on movement. Economic and human losses for businesses, society and people would also be considerably reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u10	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u11	Mr President! Dear Parliament! Today, the government of the country has discussed this proposal in one of the most difficult situations in which a political decision-maker may be faced. We have made this proposal, for which I am sure there are quite rightly many specific questions being asked today, in order to protect the most important role of the political decision-maker, human health and life. The chosen method is targeted at the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and Turku in a regional, precise manner. It is targeted at a minimum time period, from which health authorities showed that restrictions are beneficial. Why was this method chosen? Because the health authorities, the national health authority, thought that this would be the most effective, most important and certainly the most effective means available to the government in order to put an end to this ailment in the midst of the disease.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u12	In fact, according to the information that has been provided in advance, it seems that all the questions relate in some way to the corona, and I think it wise that we should use the whole Question Time time on these entities in such a way that we do not split them into separate questions, because they do cross-check in this debate. So now, if there are some representatives who did not notice just now asking for that reply, the button could be opened for a moment and it could be recorded here. — But Mr Tavio has the floor for the next question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u13	Madam Speaker! I understand that private meetings — domestic parties, village visits and so on — must be limited in this situation. They are the majority of the physical contacts where it is at risk of infection. On the other hand, special shops and stone - foot shops have shown very little or no infection. This is the information I myself received from THL that there are very few infections, and this is also the way to read clearly between the lines of the government's proposal. But if these are still closed, as Mr. Koponen well said about the Finns of Peru, it will cost a billion a week. If you do it for six weeks, it'll be six billion. It is more than 4,000 companies, thousands of companies, which are at risk of bankruptcy. Tens of thousands of people may at least temporarily lose their jobs. Families lose their livelihoods. Depression, mental health problems, alcoholism, even though suicide — how much will it cost people? Has the government considered the option of introducing this restriction of movement at night, as in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u15	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u16	Mr President! You can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the government has certainly gone through with the health authorities, exchanging ideas on all other possible options before reaching this solution. We must also recognise, as you well know, that for more than a year now, Finnish companies, households, each of us have been living in an exceptional time. The Ministry of Finance, too, as an entity whose economic assessment this house is used to relying on, has considered that effective, rapid, drastic restrictive measures are also the best option for the economy, businesses and employment. As far as the background to this solution is concerned, it is very good that this exceptional and historic decision is thoroughly relegated to Parliament, especially because, as the Finns of Finland have pointed out in their question, this is a matter of fundamental human rights. It is only after that parliamentary debate that it will be decided whether the situation still meets the criteria of necessity and whether this whole will be put into effect, but this is what Finns in these limited areas will do well to prepare for.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u17	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u18	Mr President! It is good to go back to what this is all about in this debate. This is all about a virus that is transmitted from one person to another. The most important rule in all this is that contact between people must be minimised, that each of us in our everyday lives might wonder if I could reduce my contacts now for the next few weeks. Hopefully we won't be talking about months, but hopefully we'll get to the summer where we can meet each other again, live more freely, companies can operate more freely, Finland's economy can grow sustainably. The government has been working on other ways, such as tightening the restrictions on assembly in these areas. This action is under preparation, currently in discussion between the regional government authorities and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition to this package, the Mask Force will be introduced into the Act on communicable diseases, so that it will continue to be used in future in situations like this. The number of passengers in public transport is limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u19	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u20	Madam President! It's a serious situation. We all agree on that. It is also agreed that more means and strict measures are needed. Now it is more a question of what are the right means. This restriction of movement is a really powerful weapon, as the government says. It addresses fundamental rights and the draft law itself seems very difficult and difficult to implement. At the meeting, we want the government to really do everything else first before we have to go into mobility restrictions. We have to have those tests at the border, we have to demand that negative test result, we have to be the masked man, we have to tighten up the assembly restrictions, and I ask: we are not now going to have this motion from the government and these others are waiting for us. Now, with the same vigour, make these necessities. It is difficult for people to understand why borders are still open to the virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u21	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u22	Mr President! I understand very well and I think it is justified that the opposition parties should like to see this proposal now that it is given to Parliament, and to form your views in consultation with this proposal, and therefore with the health authorities, so that you can have the same information that the government has received over the last few weeks when considering this solution, including when preparing the demanding legal aspect of this proposal. Yes, we've been through other options. Yes, there are already very many restrictions in force in this country, and yes, this proposal also includes a mask requirement in areas of restriction of movement and contact reduction. All of this is something that I think the Finns in these regions, in these cities, do not like, but politics also has to make very unpleasant decisions to stick to its values and the main task of the decision-maker, the protection of health and life, despite the fact that you know that this proposal has the mild phenomena, the negative effects that have already been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u23	One minute's over. — Representative Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u24	Mr President! It is quite clear that this is a difficult decision and a difficult situation. We are prepared to deal with it here in Parliament, that this proposal is going through very carefully, that it is being weighed against its necessity, but at the same time we want to look at the effects of these other measures. It should also be borne in mind that restrictions on movement also set a precedent as to how people's fundamental rights can be restricted in the future. We're going to handle this very well. But I am forced to return to this border issue once again, Mr President. Now the image comes as if it doesn't matter when the virus is already here, but those transformation viruses, the virus variants are born in the world, come to Finland with the passengers, and we don't really believe that it's going to be all right, even if you say that this is going to be put right. This is a very critical case. With many different variants in Stockholm and Estonia, can you now promise that these negative test certificates will be required and you will produce the presentation as quickly as possible and that we can count on each passenger to be assigned to the mandatory test? For we prevent as many new viruses as possible from entering Finland, because when they are released, they will spread many, many times over the Finnish population.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u25	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u26	Mr President! I myself have seen this border security as one of the most important issues that must be put in order so that we, here in Parliament too, understand how important it is here to think about whose fundamental rights are put first. And now we have a clear green light from Parliament that border security will be improved on the basis of the He who has been dealing with it, for which an entry model has now been drawn up. Tomorrow, this matter will be presented to the President and the law will be adopted on that basis. The starting point is, as Mr Orpo has said here, that everyone entering the country will be referred to a health check — that is essential. But today we have to pay attention to the fact that this burden of disease that has hit Finland is so enormous that we alone will not be able to tackle this burden in the regions where the epidemic is evasive. And in these areas we need large-scale,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u27	Congressman Lepomäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u28	Mr President! Today we heard in the government's information that, in the context of mobility restrictions, it is possible for people to buy a decorative item among other goods or foodstuffs, if it is part of such daily needed goods. This means that in practice, for example, shopping in large hypermarkets or on-line shops is possible, but, instead, special shops that have been in distress for a long time are now suffering quite disproportionately. To date, many of these companies have not been covered by interest subsidies. How did you intend to intervene in this matter? There's a lot of entrepreneurs out there that have a big emergency. There are currently a very large number of small entrepreneurs in debt counselling. And another question, Minister Saarikko, when you said that we in the opposition now have access to these expert assessments which you have been running for weeks: why now?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u29	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u30	Madam President! First of all, I would like to correct some of the information from the Finns that this will cost businesses a billion dollars per week. The TEM made a calculation, which is a very crude calculation, and that billion was a decrease in turnover. That's different. Turnover and expenses are different, so I would ask that this be taken into account in the future. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u31	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u32	Mr President! The pandemic has been going on for over a year, and the borders are still leaking, as are the noses of the invaders without a mask, no matter how the government tries to improve the statistics. Now the barrage of restaurants is almost three weeks behind us, and there will be a follow-up. Weeks are a pain in the ass for these companies. The imposition of closure measures on the provincial basis creates situations where restrictions are perceived as disproportionate and too severe in relation to the local disease situation. There is room within the provinces for municipalities in quite different situations in view of the risk of spreading the disease. Similarly, the risk of spreading within regions varies. I would like to ask the minister concerned why, in the proposal to extend the restaurant closure, the government did not take more account of the local situation, but the closure measures are still being targeted by region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u33	Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u34	Mr President! The restaurant law, that is, this Mara law, the blocking law, is currently being discussed by Parliament, and I understand that the report from the Committee on Economic Affairs is now on the way, or either it has been coming in just about these minutes, and it is now the basis for the presentation of the last three weeks' restaurant closure, which is that we did not change it in this timetable. These different divisions, the foundations of which were examined on the basis of the previous opinion of the Constitutional Committee, were now taken as the basis for regionalisation. One could have been hospital districts, but it would almost be the same as the division of the provinces. Then a regional model could have been adopted, but there is no such thing as a legislative one. Then, of course, the municipality could have been theoretical, but there is a clear view from THL and the health authorities that the division of municipalities is too small, because people move from one municipality to another, and it is therefore better that they are larger regions, larger entities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u35	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u36	Madam President! The True Finns told us to follow the Dutch example: 16,700 people are dead in the Netherlands. Compared to Finland's population, it would be around 6,000 in Finland, which is almost ten times the number in our country. My question to the ministers is: should we not, in a situation like this where we are, possibly in the situation where Ireland was in December and Denmark was in November, introduce all the means? These countries, which I mentioned, and many others have come down quickly from very high incidence rates by all means, including these restrictions on movement. Later today, we have a government proposal 31 on Article 58g of the Act on Disease Control. It already has the possibility for the municipal health authorities to close the general premises of shopping centres from their stay and so-called hanging-out — that is, the municipal health authorities in Turku, Helsinki, Espoo and other co-operative cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u37	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u38	Mr President! Of course, there is an alternative not to make such a proposal and hope that things will go for the better. The second option is — as it is worth doing in front of the virus — to act in advance and in advance rather than when one can no longer act. Just as Mr Lindén said, there are very many European countries with this type of restriction, which is similar to all the margins, and, best of all, in very many countries they have also been effective, and the number of diseases has fallen in a few weeks. That's why I can't help overemphasizing: This presentation is carefully processed into detail in the Parliament. This presentation is limited to the largest cities, i.e. the capital region and Turku, and this presentation is implemented in a precise time frame. All of this is intended to ensure that Finnish health care is not overloaded. At the moment, right now, we have about 300 people in hospital care because of the corona, and it places a serious and dangerous emphasis on the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u39	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u40	Mr President! Mobility restrictions, in the form now proposed, would put in a difficult situation, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, where business would become virtually prohibited. However, as Mr Tavio said, the importance of shops as a source of infection is very limited, according to the studies. The problem is meetings in public and private spaces. Restrictions to the extent proposed by the government are not limited to the real problem and are not even likely to affect it. Because of a long list of exceptions, mobility restrictions are so difficult to control that those who are already staying there are likely to remain inside. Those who do not care about the instructions will not change their behaviour with these measures. If the aim is to prevent large numbers of people from meeting indoors, why do you not propose to Parliament that measures be taken to address them? Do you think that this proposal is accurate and proportionate? I would also like to ask about this time-specificity: we have heard that restrictions can be lifted once a clear turn has taken place. What does this mean?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u41	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u42	Mr President! Mr Halla-aho, you are right in saying that yes, certainly the control measures involved in this proposal are demanding, yes, this is a very demanding task for the police in this country and in these cities. But I always think that trust in a person is the starting point. We have very good evidence that Finns have acted very obediently in the midst of this demanding and serious crisis and have understood the significance of these restrictions. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u45	Congressman Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u46	Mr President! In the midst of my busy hours, I have tried to track the media here and read about these possible restrictions on movement. In this context, a few government parties, at least the Greens and the RKP, have said that a new vaccination regime has been agreed in the same context, which would undoubtedly make sense, namely that vaccinations should initially be concentrated where the risk of epidemics is greatest. My question is: has this kind of knock really been done, and what has been decided, and are the arguments changing? It would make sense to be vaccinated where there is the greatest need. Are these media records right? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u47	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u48	Mr President! It is very good that this issue can also be dealt with in Question Time. My most important message to Parliament on behalf of the Government and to all Finns is: every Finnish adult population receives a free vaccine. My second most important message is that the government will stick to the order it has informed the Finns in the whole country. First, those who are on the frontline of the corona were vaccinated. The vaccination of elderly Finns and those at risk is now well underway. After a few weeks from now and after spring, it is possible that, on the basis of a presentation by experts, individual targets will be made for the worst affected areas. At the moment, vaccination has progressed in such a way that vaccination rates in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area are much lower than in other parts of Finland. But no, the government has not been presented with a proposal on how such targeting is to be done, and then when the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health brings one, the government will take a position on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u49	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u50	Madam President! First of all, I must say that I am surprised that a week after week in the ministerial box the idea is being raised that the health safety of borders depends on Parliament adopting this border package a moment ago. That is not the case. The question that it still does not work was not a question of Parliament's decision. The closure of Uusimaa, which was a year ago, was found to take up a great deal of police and surveillance resources. Yet, we learned of individual cases where the most miraculous false evidence was used to cross the lock. It is also difficult to see from this motion whether it is targeted at the right target and, as has already been pointed out above, whether it will prevent those people who are currently delirious from taking measures that would have an impact on the spread of this epidemic. But I would like to raise the question of police and control resources, and I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: how do you intend to ensure that a police officer who is already under-resourced is able to carry out his most important task, namely alerts and criminal investigations? We know that there are already significant problems. After all, the most important task of the police is not to control whether a person leaves his own yard legally or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u51	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u52	Mr President! Just as Mr Purra says, the most important task of the police is to safeguard people's lives in this society and property and the environment. We will ensure that every euro that our authorities use to combat the interest rate will be replaced by these authorities. This is a long-term government decision. The police are gonna need more resources, and we're gonna come get this. The police may, for example, have to use people who graduate directly from the Police College of Applied Sciences to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u55	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u56	Madam President! It is good that the various options for these corona operations are carefully weighed. It's very valuable. And it is worth noting, in the opposition too, that the option that seems to be the best option for one's own mind and, in particular, for the tabloids of the press, is not necessarily the one that works best. But I thought to ask the Prime Minister’s deputy when it was revealed that in Italy, for example — we just heard — about 30 million vaccines had been found in a refrigerator somewhere: when we have committed ourselves in Finland to the European Union’s vaccination procurement programme — that we all know — has the government ever, during this corona crisis, considered the possibility that Finland, as a state, would leave the free market to seek sudden help in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u57	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u58	Mr President! We've been thinking. But then realism must also be taken into account. We've got chips on the sheets, and if we were alone, we'd have gotten vaccines. [Base Finns Group : Ahhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u59	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u60	Mr President! The situation is serious, it is serious, but it makes me want to say that it would be nice to make such a discovery here in Finland with regard to vaccines. However, this is not the case. But what is essential is that even if vaccines should come more and more quickly — and yes, they have been accompanied by setbacks that we know about, for example, AstraZeneca and its readiness for use in Finns of different ages — they have wanted to ensure the last one, because we cannot afford to increase vaccine criticism in Finland or in any country, because it is our only salvation that people want to take this vaccine. But in order to create some proportions, Mrs Hoskonen's good question in Finland has a total of 4.5 million to vaccinate in this programme, and so far, by the 24th day, less than 760,000 people in Finland have already received the first vaccine. We have come a long way, and that is why this is so demanding. At the same time, the vaccine program, when there is a need for restrictive measures — both of these are needed to save the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u61	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u62	Madam President! This crisis requires a great deal of effort from all of us. The building blocks of everyday life are renewed when a child moves to a distance school, when family vacations have to be cancelled time and again, and friends cannot be met with a pleasant hobby. There are many people who are concerned about income problems when layoffs continue and the prospects for their own employment are uncertain. I hope, however, that we will look more at those people whose own voice, even in the midst of this crisis, does not carry newspapers and television news. I'm worried about single parents who've been under a lot of pressure. The combination of remote work and distance school is particularly challenging for one-parent families. There are also 1.2 million people living alone in Finland, and in the capital region, for example, half of households have one-person households. So I ask Minister Kiuru: how do we ensure that family members living alone and one-parent families are not excluded from support networks by means of interest rate restrictions?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u63	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u64	Mr President! We have not introduced the powers provided for by the Emergency Act to allow social services to compromise on the need or quality of services, and I think it is important that, even in this crisis, we ensure that the municipalities also have an obligation to safeguard these services from the point of view of availability. You raised good concerns, quite proportionate concerns that this is a challenging time, especially for single parents, who do not necessarily even have to share responsibility for parenting with a wider group. It is also important from the point of view of these restrictions on freedom of movement that care and maintenance can be secured even in these times. It is also important that municipalities are committed to providing services, and therefore significant sums have also been used to support the fact that, for children and young people, but also older people, the municipalities have an obligation to provide these services so that people can cope with this heavy period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u65	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u66	Madam President! Yle’s extensive survey of day care and school life in the shadow of the corona virus reveals the weariness and fears of teachers and workers in the middle of the corona. The message needs to be taken seriously, because teachers also enable society to function during a corona pandemic. I have worked in a day care centre in the past and I know very well that working with children and young people can affect up to hundreds of people during the day. It is not possible to limit contacts and keep safety intervals with children and young people. The fear of Korona is also present in the everyday lives of teachers and nurses. The answers to the YLE survey show that the employer is not always able to provide a safe learning and working environment. So I ask Minister of Education Saramo: how can we ensure a safe working environment in day-care centres, schools and educational institutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u67	Minister Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u68	Madam President! Thank you for the question. I myself am also very concerned about this and, fortunately, I can now take some comfort in the worst fears that, according to the experts at THL, schools are still relatively safe jobs. According to experts, exposures very rarely lead to infections in the school environment in Finland, and of course a great and humble thank you to the school and early childhood education workers, who have done an exemplary job under great pressure. The questioner has worked in early childhood education, and I see that reality when I apply for my children from kindergarten. I've been thinking about how to improve that security. Just as it says here, it is impossible to keep those distances there. That is why I have pointed out that there are good reasons for considering that, after vaccination with risk groups, teachers and carers could be vaccinated, because we do not have any other means, but we will have to keep day-care centres open in the worst crisis situation, as we remember last spring, for example. Of course, there are many other ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u69	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u70	Madam President! It does not go to the public's sense of justice that the virus has been allowed to drain for a year into our country without the government taking action. The public's sense of justice is also somewhat affected by this debate on vaccination. Prime Minister Marin has stated that after vaccination of risk groups vaccinations can be targeted at the worst epidemic areas. At least in social media, the Prime Minister's deputy has had some disagreements. The National Vaccination Expert Group has pointed out that if faster vaccination in the Uusimaa region were to be carried forward, it could reduce the need for hospitalisation by a fifth. We are talking about restrictions on movement in an area where vaccination coverage is the weakest. My question now is: was this vaccination issue on the table when the government negotiated these restrictions on movement? Have there been any agreements to change the vaccination programme? At least it has been tweeted by several MPs on social media. There are so many citizens who are very concerned. Don't you think that's the kind of thing that should be reported? And I say to the government that not all health professionals have vaccination. In the front line, the teachers, the police and, above all, the medical staff are waiting for the vaccines.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u71	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u72	Mr President! Brief remarks on two previous points. A very important description of everyday life in the middle of the corona. Yes: A person living alone in a capital region is allowed to go out outside his own household with someone else while living alone. It's also our message to the people living alone in this area. To the border question. It is important, but right now this situation is not resolved. Less than 2% of the infections come from the border
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u75	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u76	Mr President! The government has stated that the infections are particularly spread in the leisure activities of foreign-language speakers and young adults.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u79	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u80	Mr President! At the moment, it is only a fact that we have not yet broken the camel’s back in the formula of this disease. We just have to admit it here with a bunch of people. At the same time, we cannot ask whether these restrictions could be mitigated if the health authorities have stated on a broad front that the current restrictions have not yet translated cases into a clear curve. Now is not the time to dismantle these restrictions. I am really sorry that we cannot do that yet, but we must bear it here. Next, we ask whether we take the guidance given by the health authorities seriously. It is now in the hands of the Parliament whether the tip of the epidemic will continue to intensify or whether these infections will be reduced. It is not enough to continue with these current restrictions. The message is very clear. We still have to get 25% out of the contacts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u83	I sincerely hope that you will follow the clock, as well as the representatives and ministers, so that we will have more time to take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u84	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u85	Mr President! The draft proposal on mobility restrictions takes the homeless into account in practice, so that if you do not have a home address, you will not be restricted to stay outside. However, a significant proportion, probably even the majority, of homeless people have an official address but who, for one reason or another, cannot be at home. For example, a home may be associated with a high level of substance abuse or a threat of violence. Especially when young people are homeless, this is commonplace. Nights are spent with friends or in the gateways or at any time. According to the motion, these informal homeless people are subject to mobility restrictions and their sanctions, which means that they can be fined for not being able to go home. My question now, Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, is: how do we prevent the disproportionate effects of restrictions on movement on very vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u86	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u87	Mr President! I am delighted that the various groups in society have been represented on a very large scale during this Question Time: the difficult position of entrepreneurs, families, everyday life for families with children, schoolchildren, but also the homeless, whose lobbying may not be the loudest in society. We also know that, like many other tragic mildew phenomena, this has by no means decreased during the corona period. That is why I have checked that the government has also taken a position on this, the situation of this group of people, in its proposal. The exception to Article 3(2) of the proposed regulation, i.e. what is the necessary exception from this basic solution to stay at home — what does that mean for people who do not have a home? They can move around to use health care and social care services, including services for the homeless, such as emergency accommodation. That is what I wanted to highlight. This issue has also been considered in the same way as many other special groups, and it is very good that the Parliament of this whole issue is thoroughly debated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u90	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u91	Madam President! The common goal of the government and the opposition is that we can protect people's lives and health, and also, of course, to ensure the sustainability of health care. However, this method of territorial mobility restrictions, with different exceptions, chosen by the government, constitutes a very confusing whole that people find difficult to follow, and its effectiveness can be questioned. Would it not be better simply to go away and limit the extra-family contacts that people can have, such as in Norway? It is extremely important for people to feel that these various restrictive measures are proportionate, and one of the most extraordinary restrictions here in the government proposal is to restrict the organisation of services. In this time, however, people would need a message of future and hope. They would need a message of comfort and encouragement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u92	Deputy Prime Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u93	Mr President! I understand very well, Mr. Essayah. I agree that the proposal is about the whole sphere of life, and therefore I am sure that these exceptions and others are complex entities to perceive. That is why I hope that, when this proposal is discussed by Parliament and if it accepts it, we will also jointly commit ourselves to communicating these limitations correctly to all Finns in these exceptional areas. Your question about the status of Christian and other religions — against church matters: it has been very closely prepared together with religious communities and more closely with the Evangelical Lutheran Church. During the past year, Finnish parishioners have become accustomed to online broadcasts of religious events and can be continued. Furthermore, the article has pointed out as an exception the most tragic situation for people: losing someone close to them, attending funerals, facing death. Of course, it is a necessary exception, but it is also a matter of soul-care.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u94	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u95	Madam President! In dealing with mobility restrictions, the government has also limited one key element of democracy: transparency. For example, the Prime Minister's Office did not release documents relating to the preparation of restrictions on movement to the media, claiming that they concern the preparation of emergency conditions. According to the Publicity Act, such documents are classified only if their disclosure would jeopardise the preparation of exceptional circumstances. An open and critical debate on this issue may be embarrassing for the Government, but awkwardness should not jeopardise preparedness for exceptional circumstances. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister's deputy to explain to the public how the publication of the working documents on restrictions on movement would have jeopardised the preparation of emergency conditions and the preparation of restrictions on movement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u96	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u97	Mr President! I'm trying to answer you in an understandable way. You are quite right that, in such an exceptional crisis and in such an exceptional legal situation, there is every reason to be open. Since I am a deputy to the Prime Minister, I readily admit that I do not know the details relating to that decision of the Prime Minister's Office. All I know is that in a very exceptional way, before the Government hearings and the adoption of the proposal, this draft was published to all Finns last night, although it was only adopted today. It was also possible for the opposition several days ago to have the draft and detailed questions about it, but of course this latest version, which has now been published and which is being dealt with by the Parliament and which is going through the details of which it is going through specifically constitutionally, will be decided by this Chamber. But yes, the main line of government is transparency, and the main line of government is communication, in which we obviously always need to improve, so that Finns know that this is serious and difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u98	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u99	Mr President! Indeed, in this exceptional situation, which is affecting the nation, transparency is everything, and the government has certainly not complied with it in many, many places in this context of the corona crisis. Now again, we have one thing on this table that remains to be bothered, and that is the order of the vaccine. Yesterday, the Group Chairman of the Greens told us on the social media that a schedule for vaccination has been agreed. You will tell us that this will be done as recommended by the health authorities in due course. It gives the impression that a political agreement has been reached, however, that the proposal will come from there and then that will be the case. But this is not the point. It's the fact that you really need to be open about what you're up to right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u102	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u103	Mr President! I accept the feedback and promise that we will discuss this with the Prime Minister how we can improve transparency in the eyes of Parliament and Finns. During this Question Time, I have done my best to use the time, at the very least, to explain why we are in this situation, why we are bringing the proposal and what it is intended to do: that the disease situation will improve and that the capacity for intensive care will be sufficient. Order of the vaccine: Mr Orpo, you too have been sitting here and you know that when you say something about it, it must be true. And when I say to you, to the Finns and to Parliament, that there is no proposal from the authorities on how to change the order of vaccines, I mean it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u106	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u107	Madam President, ärade fru talman! First of all, I have to tell Minister Kiuru that as a chip, there is no point in a loan. Nothing can be done there, I know that from experience. [Laughter] The government has decided to propose restrictions on movement. I don't agree with everything. However, it has now been decided to restrict the movement of people, because the experts feel that this is the case. These restrictions will cost the state hundreds of millions because entrepreneurs need to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u108	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u109	Mr President! I appreciate, Mr Harkimo, many of your contributions and also this, in which you describe that you understand the gravity of the situation and why the government is acting. I also agree with you that many Finns certainly feel that communication is confusing, and I am openly saying that in the beginning of the week, when we had listened to the views of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, I read within 24 hours, for example, from HUS, the country's leading hospital district, the views of the four main experts on what should be done in a completely different direction. That is why it is important to know what I am leaning on, because there is a lot of opinion in such a demanding situation. Everyone agrees on the bottom line: we need less contact, we need to protect intensive care and health care, we need to get rid of the disease. All experts agree on this. But the timeliness of the means, the time when they will be introduced, the areas where, where, what means there are — endless differences of views, and as the decision-maker, my clearest place to rest, like the rest of the government, is the assessment of the National Institute for Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u110	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u111	Mr President! Yes, this is a genuine problem, that we have many different views on how to deal with this disease situation, but that is what democracy is. There has also been a wide range of views in this Chamber on how to take control of the situation in this situation. I have made a serious assessment here that the current restrictions need to be maintained and that the contacts will then have to be reduced by 25%. I'm sure the methods put forward here are good, but they don't solve how this big picture should work quickly. These other means will not, according to the experts, help us quickly to put an end to the major disease surges that have been created in these few municipalities, and it is therefore important that together we commit ourselves to doing this work as effectively as possible over the next three weeks so that we can bring down the disease surge in areas where development is far too hard. That's why we need everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u112	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 8/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Mr Kymäläinen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u113	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the entire Committee on Transport and Communications for the taxi law. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u116	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u117	Mr President! Thank you very much, Your Honor. To Mr Kymäläinen on the presentation of the report. In many places public transport is not a real option; taxi traffic is needed. For many special groups, taxis are practically the only option. The special needs of customers are many. In addition to moving from a to b, travel must feel safe. Many members of the special group expect taxi rides in the future with fear, especially if the professional and service attitude of taxi services are not in order. A familiar and skilled taxi driver is an important thing for many people's lives. In the Government proposal, it is proposed to introduce more regulation on the test of taxi drivers and on driver training to support their activities with special groups. The aim is, of course, to improve quality and the safety of special groups: in other words, more professionalism, more attitude and more knowledge. President! One of the objectives is also to improve transparency of pricing. With regard to the regulation on pricing, it is proposed that the charging structure should be used and that the price of the journey should be given as an example, unless the price of the taxi ride is fixed. This increases customers' chances of assessing the cost of a taxi ride. I believe I speak from the experience of quite a few of us when I say that the cost of a taxi ride is quite a mystery when we sit in a taxi. Now we want a change, and that's good. President! The Committee on Transport and Communications has once again done an excellent job in its report. The concern about the quality of taxi services and the fight against the shadow economy has been well highlighted in the report. The attentions guide the work and the whole in a good direction. There are still major shortcomings in the availability of taxi services, especially in sparsely populated areas. We still need to look for ways to improve this. President! Finally, a word on one important encounter, which also has a major social role to play. Kela rides and their functionality touch a huge number of people, and they are an important part of everyday life for people in many fragile life situations. I would therefore like to express a strong hope that the development needs and accessibility associated with Kela rides will be taken extremely seriously both in this day and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u118	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u119	Madam President! I hope that the fact that this committee report is unanimous shows that this will be the first peace of the taxi war. I do not believe that this is still the final peace agreement, but it would be the right direction, that at last I am not saying exactly what has been, but towards it. You know what I mean. These are good statements on these points on improving access and, of course, on these social issues. And the improvement in recognisability has also been taken care of there, not in pronunciations, but otherwise. But what I would like to draw attention to is precisely what Mr Kivisaari said, this consideration of the needs of the special groups. That's what they're taking into account in the tests now. This few weeks will receive feedback from taxi entrepreneurs from those provinces. Of course, they are talking about their own colleagues. And knowing that grandmas are left with their bags at the store door and do not bother to get out of the taxi to help at all, hopefully even now it will help to put this process in order and get this customer service spirit through these tests as well, so that you know whether you are in the right business or not. I understand well these taxi entrepreneurs who have sent a message about this, that if you are not interested in customer service, you should look for other jobs. They are proud of their own work and also want to improve their own field of work, and I hope that this report now supports that work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u120	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u121	Madam President! The government proposal before us therefore corrects the shortcomings of the infamous taxi reform. This is well known to Parliament, and the situation picture has been further clarified during the drafting of the legislation on the basis of dozens of experts and expert opinions consulted by the committee. Problems relate, among other things, to the safety of taxi services, access to taxis, transparency of pricing and the fight against the shadow economy. In the larger picture, of course, the taxi law is part of the overall development of the transport system. The aim of the Government proposal is to restore consumer confidence in the quality of the taxi service and to stabilise the sector's operating environment. Next, we can look at the long-term development of taxi services, as reforms will be needed in the future. Madam President! The importance of taxi services, especially for the travel chains of sparsely populated areas, is very important. The availability of taxis currently faces major challenges in sparsely populated areas, which the present presentation alone cannot remedy. The committee has also drawn attention to this and has taken a firm stand in its proposal for a statement. Taxis can at best fill gaps in public transport in less populated areas. In many places, the number of passengers in Finland is too small for regular bus traffic, and in these areas taxis will be an increasingly important part of public transport in the future. In Häme, too, we have good experience of what is known as the so-called ‘call taxis’, which can be used to run regular services from remote villages to the city centre and the town around us. These smaller-scale public transport solutions also play an important role in reducing transport poverty. Madam President! A few words about taxi services for special groups, whose quality is now being improved through voluntary training for special groups of drivers: As has been said, matters relating to the tendering and organisation of Kela rides are within the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and are not part of this government proposal. However, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, work on the development of publicly supported transport across administrative sectors is under way as part of the measures of the national transport system plan. The aim is to strengthen the accessibility and regional effectiveness of these transports. Taxi services as part of sustainable and fossil-free transport, smooth travel chains and regional justice — in that, Madam President, there are a few future challenges for the taxi sector, which we shall now begin to look for sustainable solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u122	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u123	Madam President! I think that our report is excellent. Unfortunately, this taxi reform went way too fast recently and too far and failed. Now we have done this series of corrections No. 1, and probably and hopefully there will be a series of corrections No. 2 when we have not finished our work. I would like to raise a few points here: The most important thing for me at the moment is to restore confidence in this Finnish taxi system, which used to be truly reliable, and one important thing about it is control. Now we have paid attention to this control, because we know that there have been certain kinds of territorial battles, particularly here in the capital region, on taxi poles, customers have been mistreated, drivers have been fighting with each other. This must not be the case. If there is no control, then the shadow economy is rampant, competition is distorted and, in addition, these mild phenomena I mentioned. The important thing here is, as we have suggested, to set up a type of taxi inspector. This was the case in the past, and it kept taxi drivers in check if necessary. It is already the case that these major, well-functioning taxi companies have their own taxi inspectors, and it is based on the agreements of these companies, but we want all taxis to be monitored as an official function, because these problems have mainly been in these, are now referred to as wild taxis, and must be addressed. It is not only enough for the police, Traficom and the tax authorities to take joint action occasionally, they are good too, but it is not only enough, but there must be, for example, two or three permanent taxi inspectors in the metropolitan area — no more than they need — to whom citizens can complain about a misbehaved taxi driver or if they have been mistreated. Similarly, other taxi drivers can report their colleagues who are doing wrong, and above all, these taxi inspectors have to throw those sandals off from time to time and put boots on and go to the airport to actually control the traffic that taxis are doing. It will bring this kind of preventive effect, and I must say that it will curb these abuses. Here are many other good things, such as the identification of taxis, the use of taxi dome. We would still have liked these colored plates, but that was not possible at the moment. This transparency of the rides, driver training and language skills for drivers: Finnish or Swedish must be the language skills. There are major problems from time to time, especially for older people, if the driver does not master any known language, not even English. It is not only a customer service issue, it is also a security issue. This is a good report for us and I hope that the minister will give us a series of amendments number two during this period. The Minister promises this, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u124	Congressman Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u125	Thank you, Madam President. I guess you can say today that in this job you experience a rare sense of success when you finally get a correction to this taxi law. Of course, you can sarcasmly say that the present is so bad that everything is an improvement. In this respect, Mr Kymäläinen, the chairman of the committee, has already presented these details with merit, so I will not go into them in detail. As Mr Tolvanen said, there are a lot of good things there, the need for a cab dome to become mandatory, and there was also talk of these colored plates, which may have been presented in part by the industry, but it was not considered to have come very strongly here in the report, in consultation with experts. Then, of course, as an important point, this fight against the shadow economy, to make these taximeters compulsory or similar, and, of course, the training requirements of drivers. Personally, I would like to add my thanks to the work of the committee. We did not have any government-opposition arrangements there, but, indeed, everyone in the group was determined to make adjustments to this issue. In my opinion, the discussion was very detailed, there were dozens of experts, and yet the report was very much combined. I am particularly pleased with these few statements which have come here. This was a key objective, among other things, to improve the availability of taxis in sparsely populated areas, but in the government's proposal itself there were not very many answers. I believe that we have now received a reasonably firm statement which requires the Government to evaluate and implement without delay all the legislative and other measures needed to improve the availability of taxi services in the various regions. This is an absolutely central issue in much of Finland. This correction of the taxi law makes little difference if there is no taxi available in the regions at all. The second statement concerned these publicly produced transports, i.e. as a general rule these Kela rides. This was not included in this proposal, but it was considered that a statement would be made in this regard, since this is so central to the business of these taxis, particularly in the provinces. I am not going to repeat that statement, but it contains a very robust text that this will be implemented in intersectoral cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I think this is a good start, and I hope that Minister Harakka will come up with even better proposals to correct the taxi sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u126	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u127	Mr President! The reform of transport policy in Berlin, which came into force in the last parliamentary term, left problems for taxis, which are now being corrected. The use of a tax meter or equivalent system under the EU Measuring Instruments Directive is of great importance for the implementation of tax supervision, so the need for this is a clear improvement to the current situation. In addition, it is an excellent thing that obtaining a licence for taxis would require entrepreneurship training and passing a test in this respect. More importantly, a course and language test for basic knowledge and customer activities are required to obtain a taxi driver’s professional driving licence. We need skilled and skilled taxi drivers. Similarly, we need taxi companies who pay their taxes and other statutory charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u128	Representative Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u129	Värderade Talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka utskottet och ordförande Kymäläinen för ett bra arbete i den rai frågan. Vi har variety enade över partigränserna och i arbetet med att föra det arv viktiga lagförslaget framåt. Jag väkomnar lagförslaget och understödjer varmt att man genom propositionen försöker finna lösningar på de missförhållanden som uppstått i taxitrafiken och på debrister som framkommit i lagstiftningen. Hela branschen har lidit av den vilda västern som uppsted effecter den förra revideringen av lagen, och målet är att återskapa förtroende och en fungerande taxitrafik. Vi har i utskottet speciellt fäst uppmärksamhet vid tillgänglighet och pålitlighet — någonting branschen nu tampats med. Jag vill poängtera några saker.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u130	Mr President! First of all, thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, for his good and clear presentation. Just as we heard earlier, the taxi industry is a service sector where trust is central, and it is important that people who need taxi rides feel safe and safe and that everything works as it should. Mr President! As a rule, Finnish taxi companies and drivers are highly skilled people and do their work with a very high level of professionalism and good attitude, but as has been said, there are problems in this area, and it is important that they can now be partially addressed through this legislative package, but we are also aware that there is still something left to be corrected. And I myself attach great importance to these statements which we have now unanimously received here in committee, firstly that the availability of taxi services throughout the country needs to be improved, and secondly that the availability of these publicly supported rides, such as Kela taxis and school rides, should be ensured. Mr President! Many necessary changes are now being made to the laws on the taxi sector, and I would like to highlight this improvement in the identification of taxis when the taxi light becomes mandatory. Indeed, in committee, we also heard in great detail about the possibility that many taxi companies, for example, had hoped to obtain colored plates and thus to increase this identification. In fact, we expressed a strong hope in the report that this issue should continue to be clarified and assessed in terms of the possibility of introducing these taxi shields. I would also like to highlight this pricing. It is very important that this is now clarified. It is in the interests of the customer, but also of entrepreneurs and drivers in the long term, that this pricing becomes clear. And from the point of view of business, I also very much welcome the fact that transport activities included in the service package of these home and tourist services companies will not be subject to a licence for taxis in the future. This will reduce red tape for these types of companies and give them new opportunities to earn more money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u131	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u132	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Taxireformen som genomfördes under förra mandatperioden skapade faktiskt mycket discussion och också en hel del missnäje. Jag är valdigt glad över att vi i regeringsförhandlingarna tog upp detta, och de problem som fans där har nu åtgärdats mycket bra. Visst, det hör nog till god kutym att man inte direkt öppnar nyligen gjorda beslut, men reactionnerna på taxireformen var så kraftiga — det var ett mindre lyckat beslut — och därför måste man kunna damma av sådant och och ompreva sådant om det inte fungerar. Överlag är den bull proposition ett mycket viktigt steg för att göra taxiverksamheten mer tilförlilig igen. Vi har alla via olika canaler municipalities ta del av oika missförhållanden och genom vivi förändringar försöker man finna lösning på dem. Jag lägger valdigt stor vikt vid att man är eniga i communicationutskottet i sitt betankande.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u133	Mr President! The last Act on Transport Services came into force at the beginning of June 18, and it can be said that that is where the weakening began as far as the taxi industry is concerned. As a result of the law, entry to the taxi industry was facilitated, the quotas for taxi permits were abandoned and the taxi entrepreneur was no longer required to receive entrepreneurial training. The maximum prices were dropped and prices became free. The requirements for the driver were also reduced. Uncertainty in the sector increased and consumer confidence in the quality of service weakened. In addition, it was considered difficult to understand and compare the prices of taxi services. In view of all the above, it was quite obvious that a correction of the taxi law was included in the Government Programme and that work has now been done and is now being done. One of the major works carried out by the Committee on Transport and Communications was completed when the report was completed and this package of amendments to the taxi law was brought here to the Chamber. The purpose of this government proposal is to correct the shortcomings observed in taxi operations. Particular attention needs to be paid to improvements in safety, the fight against the shadow economy, price transparency and the availability of taxis. In my discussions with people in the taxi industry, one of the problems that has often arisen has been the training of the taxi driver. It is good that concern has also been taken into account in the drafting of the law. It is proposed that the content of the taxi driver test be specified at the level of the law and that a six-month ban is automatically followed by fraud in the performance of the test, so that one can then re-run the test. I also welcome the fact that we are investing in voluntary training on working with special groups. Mr President! It is absolutely essential that the customer receive the service in an understandable way. That is why it is good that the taxi driver will be required to have sufficient language skills. This will also play an important role in conducting the taxi driver test, as it must be successfully managed independently in either Finnish or Swedish. Personally, I see that these activities have a direct impact on better quality and safety. There will also be more regulatory supervision in the Taxi Act and the compulsory registration of the Y logo for the granting of a licence for taxis. In the future, the driver must be accompanied by a taxi licence or a copy thereof, as well as other prescribed documents and a certificate of compulsory entrepreneurial training and examination. A taxi lamp shall also be put into service. These measures aim to dismantle and combat the informal economy in the sector. Now that regulation is being increased, it is important that its implementation is also monitored. Control plays a key role in, for example, the implementation of conditions for fair competition, the security of services and the fight against the shadow economy. The strengthening of supervision in the future will probably require strong cooperation between the various authorities, and it cannot be forgotten that sufficient resources are needed and obtained. Mr President! The challenge of the current pricing situation has also been strongly highlighted, and it is essential that the regulation on pricing should be better specified in the future. According to a government proposal, the cost of an example journey must be clearly visible in the taxi unless the cost of a taxi ride is fixed. The aim is to increase the transparency of pricing and to improve customers' ability to estimate the cost of taxi rides. In addition, the provisions on maximum prices will be amended. Mr President! While everyone knows that there is no return to the pre- taxi reform situation, work on the correction of taxi legislation has begun and this has been well underway. It is now urgent that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health continue to work and reform, for example, to reform the legislation on the implementation of public-produced transport, such as the transport of Kela. This repair package of the taxi law, which includes many improvements, is really needed, and the decision to proceed with the reform is now here in Parliament and in the hands of Parliament. The committee's report was unanimous and I hope that Parliament too will see the adoption of this government's proposal as necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u134	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u135	Madam President! This package, known as the repair kit of the taxi law, has been well dealt with in committee. Of course, the committee has drawn attention to the key aspects of the series of corrections — the identification of taxis, the training and testing of drivers, language skills, the transparency of pricing and the fight against the black economy, and the role of the special groups — but I am particularly pleased with the committee's work, firstly, that this committee's report is unanimous, but also that two issues were taken on board very strongly, very strongly in committee. They are one of the things that is still not working, and even though this reform series is being put through, there are still gaps. In that sense, the statements that have been formulated there — and especially in view of the justification for these statements — do find very sharp criticism of the current situation, meaning that it clearly states: “... especially in sparsely populated areas,the main problem,which does not propose adequate solutions and measures. In this respect, there is a clear need for further work.” So surely the minister and ministry are not much, could you say, better guidance and clearer guidance can be obtained here on the Parliament side than that now we are actually looking for improvements to this. Of course, reference has been made here to the fact that this proposal mainly improves the ability of the authorities to obtain information on the situation regarding access to services, but in fact that person then, while waiting for a taxi car, in the sparsely populated area on an empty pole, needs to have a taxi car there, so this should then be given special attention. Then the second thing that is on the people's lips is still these problems and the peculiarities of the Kela rides. These agencies are still subject to vague competitions, and prices are still chafing in the background. It has not been long since these same things once again came out in Eastern Finland, in the headlines of the newspapers. In this respect, it is important that attention be paid to this other issue that remains of concern, to the development of publicly supported transport and to the resolution of these challenges in cooperation with the industry. This is what many taxi entrepreneurs in rural and sparsely populated areas really want. It is a question of their bread and their future and, in most cases, of family businesses, whether it is worth transferring that business to the next generation or whether it will remain if it is perceived that the regulation of the sector has made it at least difficult, if not almost impossible, to make profitable business activities there. In that sense, I am pleased that here, in such a clear way, instructions from the committee are still being given in the direction of the ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u136	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u137	Madam President! A lot of good and comprehensive speeches have been heard in the Chamber today in connection with this necessary and expected government proposal and the good unanimous report from the committee, which has already been praised in many speeches today. As Mr Tolvanen put it well, this can therefore be seen as the first series of corrections and the second, the next series of corrections are expected. So there is still work to be done. Confidence and its restoration are essential for all parties involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u138	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u139	Thank you, Madam President. This really is a good and necessary proposal from the government, and for my part, I should like to thank both the Minister and the chairman of the committee and all the members of the committee. The unanimous report is always a respectable demonstration that good cooperation can be achieved in Parliament, and indeed it will be done. I would like to raise a few key points here which the committee will take into account and which will continue to have to be followed up and looked at how these questions can be answered when the world and Finland change. First of all, sparsely populated and rural areas: it is important that in these areas, where service provision has deteriorated, the need for this service can be better safeguarded in the future. One of the ways in which this report already provides some guidance and hopefully also such self-help is this possible so-called emergency ring. That has now become a matter for the authorities, and I believe that this issue should be followed up in the future as to whether it can be implemented in such a way as to keep the market open for all operators. I believe that this is particularly important in those sparsely populated areas where services have unfortunately deteriorated. Secondly, the committee drew attention to recognisability and is now being improved. But these taxi plates, which some of the industry has been hoping for, are not progressing at this point. I believe that, just as the report states, this will have to be considered in the future, because some of the technical barriers that were presented to us may not have been such a barrier that they have become real, and I therefore believe that this taxi shield is something to which it is good to return. Thirdly, Madam President, the training and testing of drivers: We have a great deal, the majority, very good taxi drivers and people who work in the taxi industry, but in order for everyone to be as good as the majority, it is important that these training events and experiments are appropriate and that these tests must be carried out alone so that the language skills in Finnish or Swedish are sufficient and that these tests are also monitored so that there is no fraud of any kind. Fourthly, lastly, control and the shadow economy in general: this is the case: no matter how good legislation we legislate here in Parliament, there must also be controls and sanctions, so that those who then abuse the system are also held responsible. I believe that the proposals that have been made on control are those that must be considered, because this unfortunate phenomenon, the violation of the rules and the avoidance of taxes, will then black out the honest entrepreneurs most of whom are in the taxi sector. That is why monitoring is extremely important. With these comments, thank you again for this good cooperation!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u140	Congressman Jukka Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u141	Madam President! This is a good government proposal, and I am pleased that the proposal includes the comments of the Finns of Finland. In time, we were driving, for example, that the taxi operator will continue to have a Finnish Business ID. Now it is coming, and hopefully the compulsory Y logo will also reduce the shadow economy. Safety in the taxi industry will also improve when drivers are required to take a compulsory course, where Finnish language skills and understanding are likely to be required. Since, after training, the taxi driver has to demand good local knowledge, the taxi will not be driven solely by GPS. We have also been concerned about the pricing of taxi services, the taxi meter and the obligation to provide receipts. Now there's an improvement on this side too. I warmly support this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u142	For some reason, our electronic displays showed that the speaker was Halla-aho, but it was Jukka Mäkynen, this as a correction. Let us hope that we can get it right for the next speaker. — So the next step would be Mr Salonen, who is absent. — Mr Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u143	Madam President! There has been a good debate here today. Indeed, we are talking about a reform to correct the failings of this so-called taxicab law. At this point, I would also like to take into account the fact that the Minister of Transport and Communications is following this debate. — Thank you for being here. Yes, repairs are being made. The Finnish citizen has always trusted the reliability and quality of the taxi, and the concern about the quality of taxi services, for example in the fight against this grey economy, has been raised well in this report, and the corrections are now in the right and good direction. I just want to bring up a few lifts. This recognisability of taxis: It’s great that taxi lights are now mandatory. The customers know which car is a taxi. With regard to the training of taxi drivers, I hope that in the future the customer will not have to tap Google Maps for the customer's own destination, but when the customer says where we are going, the driver will then be able to take the customer there. Taximeters are mandatory. That's great. What is very important is that there is sufficient investment in this monitoring of compliance with the law. Finally, it is good to improve the availability of taxi services, and that is what the committee has also tabled in its statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u144	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u145	Madam President! Taxi operations thus look very different from the people in the countryside here in Helsinki than we do at home in North Karelia, especially in sparsely populated rural areas, where there is a great deal in Eastern and Northern Finland. When you come to that station area here in Helsinki, there are a huge number of taxis. They are very differently identifiable, and their cashing systems are also very different. The problem with us in North Karelia is that if you really want to get a taxi, the only thing you can do now is to call the familiar taximan whose number is stored on his cell phone and who is still an entrepreneur there in North Karelia. However, there has been exactly the same amount of feedback both in North Karelia and here in the capital region, and the feedback has mainly been negative. The message has been very clear: this current taxi system is not working. I am also very concerned about special rides and Kela rides, which have also been mentioned here by a number of representatives, and I think that it should be clarified in further studies how Kela rides have worked, whether they have become savings and whether users have been satisfied. Personally, I have also heard a great deal of criticism about these Kela rides that they do not work. I have also heard that they are acting quite irrationally when you might come from a neighborhood to pick up a customer from a distance, even if the taxi operator is right there in the neighboring house and the taxi is standing empty in the yard. I know this has nothing to do with the matter under discussion, but I hope that this will be clarified in the future. The availability of taxi services is also strongly influenced by school rides, and they are a very important source of additional income for taxi entrepreneurs in sparsely populated rural areas and elsewhere in Northern and Eastern Finland. I would like to thank the committee very much. You have done a very good job now to correct the mistakes of the previous period, and I believe that with these reforms the taxi industry will return to profitability. This is a good start, and I am sure there will still be a lot of corrections after that, but now we have to take them to heart and correct these mistakes and admit that mistakes have been made in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u146	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u147	Madam President! Indeed, this taxi reform by the previous government was virtually catastrophic. And I have to say that there's been a bit of a problem in this whole time, personally, when I've got my own work apartment in Espoo and my landlord is a taxi entrepreneur. After my arrival here, the taxi driver had a stroke, and then he had to do a bypass operation and that sort of thing, and now, just over a month ago, he got one that he's going to be in treatment for the rest of the year and he's never going to drive a cab again. And the only reason is that, after this taxi reform, the entrepreneur has been pulling work from morning to night and almost killed himself with that work. That is why it has really been important for us to make progress on this issue. Of course, in this first package, there are still things to be done. And although this is now unanimous and, in a certain way, one could applaud one another on the shoulder, we hope it will be understood that this was only, as Mr Ovaska said, the peace between the two of us, that is to say, the work will continue, and the whole thing will have to be done in the right way in the future. Availability was one of the things that was the top priority in the preparation of this, but of course we were sorry to say that it had not been prepared at all. Hopefully, this will be fixed in the future and, of course, the Kela problems on the STM side will be dealt with. And none is bad even if we get the better recognizability later. After all, it does not necessarily have to be even this much - spoken colored shield, for which there is probably no obstacle if it is to be put in order. But I hope that we will come back to these, when, of course, in the next six months, we will see things that would still need to be cooled or corrected, and then we will have a second package of corrections for these matters, even if it were to be completed during this term of government. But thank you for working well with everyone who's been working on this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u148	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u149	Madam President! Throughout the ages, Finnish taxi has been a reliable night spot. We have recently been able to observe the peculiarities and strange phenomena associated with taxi operations from the public, but I still trust the Finnish taxi and taxi driver. With the taxi reform, the taxi industry was reformed in the wrong way. Now is the time to correct the course, and that is why it is great that the Committee on Transport and Communications has come to a unanimous report on the series of corrections and has also made good statements and proposals unanimously. I understand there's a follow-up and there's going to be a repair package number two. I hope that's the only way to get this industry out of hyperbole. If this corona time doesn't count, I'll use the taxi myself very much. Since the reform, it has been observed that not all new drivers have the traditional rules of the industry. It is even embarrassing when, as a customer, you have had to write an address to a navigator when you have no language skills, no writing skills, and you do not know where you are going. The level of the driver test should be raised. Flies on taxi poles are not part of Finnish society. If this happens, both the legislator and the authorities have failed. We need to clear the rules and get those out of the market that are out of line. This requires guidance from society, because due to the grey economy and the small size of Finland, the market mechanism does not automatically remove incompetent companies from the sector. In Finland, even a minor should be able to take a taxi from Helsinki Railway Station in the evening. Now it scares the adults, too, and the subject. The distribution and competition of public transport must be improved, as the committee speaks, more inspection is needed, the informal economy must be brought under control, and much more. Mr President! By correcting errors in legislation and by developing legislation and control, undesirable phenomena can be eradicated. Now we are taking the first step, and I thank the committee for its good work. It is easy to agree with these statements. I believe that Parliament can make a united effort towards the fact that a Finnish taxi will continue to be a reliable partner in people's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u150	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u151	Madam President! Many speeches have praised the Finnish taxi and its reliability, and it has been true until these last few years, but this reform of the previous Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, has lost its confidence and is now being restored. In this context, it is good to thank the Minister and, above all, the Committee on Transport and Communications. The committee has made a significant number of corrections here, and I understand that these have been done in cooperation with the Minister, and this has led to a great deal of reform. I am raising a few things here, such as this availability of taxi services in sparsely populated areas. It is no longer possible to regulate this regulation or what has been done, and that is why it is not possible to impose obligations on this on-call service. According to a report received by the committee, the Consumer and Competition Office has stated that if taxi companies want to, they can alternate and arrange the shifts, how they are on duty, and this is such a problem around the major cities. On weekends, they want to escape from the side towns to the center of the taxis and then there's trouble getting a taxi under. Many amendments have been made by the committee and are very good. This is the entrepreneurial training and test for taxis, and it is stated that 21 hours would be the minimum number of hours of training. It's giving us some direction. But here Mr Kopra mentioned that he has had to tap the address himself in the navigator, and it is almost possible to say that the manual has had to show the direction in which we are going, so this understanding is very important in this language, and these linguistic obligations have also been well mentioned here. Then there is this, and there has been much talk about it: when is a taxi driver or a taxi driver entitled to this permission? In other words, if there is endangerment of road safety, drunken driving, aggravated drunken driving, they show a great deal of disregard for road and passenger safety. In other words, the committee has raised this very important issue in its report. Pricing has certainly been one of those things where many have been mistaken, if you have not noticed to ask how much, and a few taxis have then charged [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u152	That's how it works. — And then Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u153	Madam President! In fact, this is where Mr Pierainen started with the very words he did not say — I noticed it immediately when I came to my seat — so I thank Minister Harakka for bringing this proposal, a demanding package, for us to work on the committee, and also for the cooperation we have been able to do with you as a committee along the way. I would also like to thank the Minister for being here to hear this whole parliamentary debate which, on the basis of this committee's report, is now taking place here. As has been said here, this is a starting shot for restoring a reliable and secure taxi market in Finland. We, as a committee, are sending out a strong message on this need for Kela and school rides and other public transports in order to prepare this in the STM and in cooperation with you and other actors involved in the sector, so that this issue of access can also be better resolved. I would also like to raise the issue of the development of travel chains and services, which has been raised in committee. Now the problem with these measuring instruments is the strict regulation of the European Union directive on measuring instruments and the national instrument law on measuring instruments based on it, which can limit the development of systems for measuring time and distance, as well as new types of services and travel chains. In its report, the Committee therefore considered it important for the Government to play an active role in the direction of the European Union in order to develop this regulation. I assume that the Minister agrees with us that EU regulation should not impose unnecessary restrictions on the development of services and pricing models and the promotion of digitalisation. In the future, it would also be useful to develop a system whereby information on taxi rides is automatically transferred directly to the tax authority. That's all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u154	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u155	Tack, värderade talman! Det handlar alltså om en vidareutveckling av taxilagen, eller egentligen en korrigering.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u156	Madam President! We're working on a cab reform right now. I appreciate the professional drivers, both those working in the passenger and freight sectors. I appreciate the fact that we have tough entrepreneurs. The taxi reform had not been successful at all. Perhaps one of the reasons for the failure was that there was not enough listening to professional drivers. However, it is always important to consult a professional. I'm glad we're getting better at this. The committee has done a good job. With the reform, a lot of things changed. It may be that the entrepreneurs who worked for a really long time stopped, that there were only complaints from customers to entrepreneurs, that the drivers were in a rather bad position, and that work might not even have allowed them to get along. From the countryside, taxis decreased understandably because the business world has to support the company. It has been confusing that there have been no language requirements. Yes, Finnish services must be provided. The addresses have been particularly manageable; the client has even had to write an address on the navigator himself. I appreciate the professional drivers and the fact that these mistakes have now been acknowledged as a result of this legislation. Yes, we have good drivers in Finland, absolutely good.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u157	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u158	Madam President! The taxi reform and now the corona epidemic have given taxi drivers a hard shot. Now we are dealing with a proposal for repair of the taxi reform, which is certainly expected and will be needed. I would like to raise a few points here: It is a good thing that we have taxi meters, a control system that can reduce the shadow economy and carry out tax controls. This also puts taxi drivers on the same line. There has been a great deal of concern about safety and the identification of taxis, and it is a very good thing that we now have greater identification with this proposal. It is also important that the training and tests of the taxi driver take into account the fact that there is sufficient competence — not only local knowledge but also sufficient language skills and, above all, competence in relation to the needs of specific groups. In fact, the needs of special groups are a very important issue for taxis. In other words, in addition to ordinary adults, a taxi is used by a number of disabled or school drivers or hospital emergency workers who are in worse shape, and it is therefore important to consider the service and competence in these situations as well. Municipal competitions are also particularly important and how they take quality into account in their own competitions. With regard to control, it is also important, of course, to increase it and to consider that these changes will then be put into practice there as well. Madam President! It is important that taxis are available all over Finland, and especially when on-call hospitals and dots are in fewer areas and public transport is not fully functioning or even attainable, the availability of taxis is really important here. It is also important to take into account the fact that it is reliable and safe to move from one place to another. Thank you for these changes, which at this stage will improve the level of taxi traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u159	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u160	Madam President! The taxi driver is an important person. He's in the service profession. He meets a wide range of people, including the most vulnerable. When you have just received information about a serious illness or stopping treatment when you go to a taxi to give birth and take your child to a hospital, you are at the themes of life and death. There may be very deep discussions in the taxi, and there will be people who are very sensitive and want to be very quiet. The development of taxi services will also be accompanied by the development of Kela taxi services. This reform is a first step. A local driver who knows people could serve best. He can bring a sense of security with him. The taxi driver is an important person. He encounters disabled people, people in need of special support, he picks up elderly people to the doctor, rehabilitation and club. We have also heard of some shortcomings where the disabled person may have been expecting a ride because the driver’s attitude to the service has not been correct. There are many taxi drivers in Finland who carry a bag of powerless customers, open the door, help and support. You can trust them, but it hasn't always been like this. The reform of the training and driver test for taxi drivers will meet this challenge. The reform will increase the quality and accessibility of taxi services, as well as sufficient language skills and service attitudes. It is necessary that the driver understands his customer. Entrepreneurs with the right attitude are needed. Taxi drivers must also continue to gain access to learning, continuous learning, continuous development of their own skills. Taxis are important both on land and in cities. In sparsely populated areas, taxis are very significant in filling public transport gaps when there are far too few people on regular lines. Taxis are needed for school rides, taxis serve people living in remote villages so that they can come from villages to the city center to handle their affairs. Taxis are carpooled by small-scale public transport in rural areas. Of course, in some areas it is difficult to obtain taxi services, as we have heard today. That's what we're hoping for. I believe that the taxi reform will contribute to this situation by improving the identification of taxis, by improving the fight against the black economy and by improving the transparency of pricing, as well as the availability and safety of taxis. This is in the interests of both the entrepreneur and the customer. Good work has been done in drawing up this report. Thank you, Minister, for being here and listening. Thank you to the committee for your excellent work on improving the taxi law and drawing up this unanimous report. The development of the sector continues. Thank you to all professional taxi drivers for the service work done with heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u161	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u162	Mr President! During the last term of the government, the reform of the taxi law caused a huge backlog and many flaws in taxi traffic. Unfortunately, almost all the things that the then opposition government warned about proved to be true: uncertainty increased, access to services weakened, and confidence in the entire taxi system collapsed. That is why it is great that today we are dealing with a series of taxi regulations that are designed to tackle these very problems. We are therefore taking an important step towards better and fairer taxi legislation. — Thank you for this, Minister Harakka. — With the repair kit, we restore customer confidence in taxi services, which have been badly broken as a result of the previous law. In addition, we are tackling wild pricing by providing transparency in pricing and combating the shadow economy. Mr President! As a delegate to Kela, I am pleased that in this report the Committee on Transport and Communications also took a position on the development of publicly supported transport, such as Kela. They represent a significant part of taxi traffic. With the new taxi law, Kela rides had to be re-compensated, and the practical arrangements for the rides had serious start-up problems. Availability and quality of service deteriorated significantly. Some of the problems have been corrected, but the feedback continues to come from taxi companies in particular. The income of taxi drivers has collapsed, especially in regions where publicly supported transport, such as Kela rides and school rides, constitutes a significant part of the income of the entrepreneur. They also play an important role in terms of the overall availability of taxi services at regional level. That is what I am hoping for right now, and it is a great thing that it is still mentioned separately in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u163	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u164	Madam President! It really wasn't like Strömsö when the taxi law was being reformed. He didn't give it to me right away. I think it's in order to make things right. You can describe here that at the same time the taxi law was reformed, the Kela taxi reform was carried out, and then these were the choices of the brokerage centers and the renewal of them. It wasn't all Berner's fault that the taxi might not be available, but it was almost. [Laughter] Mr Laakso rightly pointed out that the next series of corrections would like to see action on these other two points, that is to say, the promotion of the Kela taxi pattern, and I would also see improvements in the operation of these brokerage centres so that we can get taxis on time. There is a lot of familiarity with this reform, which was also the case in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, for example, before this taxi reform was introduced, that is to say, at least this point, that, as I recall, it was required in the opinion at the time that there should be a taximeter or similar device. Then, in its final form, however, it was not seen for some reason. There may have been some small twists in here at the time of the decree. But this is really important just because companies get their receipts for it, but the customer also gets a document, and even more importantly, the tax authority will then be informed, which means that the black economy can be eradicated when it is properly known. Another good innovation is this taxi sign and the appearance of the taxi that it is actually marked, that the vehicle is a rental vehicle with the driver, i.e. a taxi. Here we have this accessibility, and we need to find more ways to ensure the availability of taxis in rural areas, but equally in cities, that, while the post-corona life begins, they are not all in the queue at Helsinki Airport, but they are also elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u167	Secretary Harakka, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u168	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for those contributions. This has been the expected day when a government proposal is being discussed, which is the so-called taxi regulatory correction series. For my part, I would like to warmly thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Transport and Communications for their detailed work and for the unanimous report that has been submitted to the plenary. In accordance with the Government Programme, the proposal pays particular attention to the safety of taxi services, the fight against the shadow economy and the transparency of pricing. The correction of taxi regulation aims to restore the confidence of both customers and taxi operators in taxi work. The Government's proposal therefore proposes a number of measures to support the fight against the shadow economy, since this has initially taken place in the government programme as part of the programme to combat the shadow economy, and as has been said here, the information collected for tax control purposes has been specified in more detail. Efforts will also be made to improve the safety of taxi services by specifying the requirements of the taxi driver’s test and by increasing the penalties associated with trial fraud. And an important addition has also been added to the law of voluntary driver training in support of working with special groups, which can and should also be used in municipal and Kela's competitions and public procurement. As has been pointed out, the pricing of taxi services is to be clarified. But perhaps then, indeed, on these two important issues of accessibility and the development of publicly supported transport. As regards the assessment of taxi regulation, it was found that the authorities do not have a sufficient picture of the situation to assess where there are enough taxis and where there are no taxis, and that is why it is now proposed as a first step, as the first step, to obtain that information which will then determine where these deficiencies exist. At least a common picture of the situation can help solve problems. Secondly, of course, the issue of the development of public-subsidised transport. They are a significant part of the taxi market, more than 40% of all journeys, and particularly important, as has been said here, in sparsely populated areas. However, it has to be said here that what has been changed in one way in the first place is not quite the same. The taxi market changed when licence quotas and on-call obligations were waived. Good things have been achieved, and they will not be cancelled either. These challenges are complex and partly interlinked. They are to be addressed both in the Transport 12 work and then in the cooperation of several ministries, several authorities and stakeholders, as has been well observed here. Now it is time for us to take the next step in cooperation. — Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u169	Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u173	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u174	Mr President! I think Congressman Pirttila left here. When he mentioned that Minister Berner was, as it were, behind this bad law, I believe that we Members of Parliament back then are behind this bad law, and I personally take full responsibility — and it was not surprising in itself that everything would be ruined, as we see now. They knew it back then.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u177	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u178	Mr President! Although this taxi reform is now greatly appreciated by the left, I can still see that the government in its proposal or the committee in its unanimous report is not changing the basic point that the taxi market has been opened up and that there is a competitive situation like the one we have at present. There is no going back to regulation on this, which is obviously recognised by the left as a success in this reform. As regards the preparation of the taxi law last season, I confirm the view that it was mainly Minister Berner's fault that it went as wrong as it did. That would have gone much further wrong with Mr Berner's original proposal if we in the Committee on Transport and, for example, Mrs Pirttilahti's example in the Committee on Economic Affairs had not turned the law in a better direction than what had been put forward there. For example, there was the full unnotified right of EUR 10000 to engage in business activities, which would have been a complete generator of the shadow economy. Things like this got out of there, many things for the better, taximeter regulation in a smarter direction — it was not perfect, yet it was better than the original, nonexistent performance. The worst fears and horror scenarios didn't come true. There were a lot of things going on here that I've been looking forward to myself. The taxi industry chained up, that is, people felt that they could better rely on such chain taxis, which had too much reputational risk to protect, so that they could make big bubbles in their business, and therefore they could rely on their pricing. This happened, and this was very much to be expected. Now, in this reform, things are moving in a better direction, in this unanimous report by the Committee on Transport and Communications. However, I wondered a little bit about how the government could say, in principle, that there is no information available on the availability of taxis throughout Finland. How can it be that the reform has been in force for several years and the government notes that such clear information about where, for example, a taxi has been ordered and no taxi has been received would not be available? Shouldn't we have gotten that information now? However, the taxi is in the position of a kind of basic service throughout the country. You can't move unless you own a car, you don't have public transport. The taxi has got to get around. It's almost a basic need. The second point I drew attention to was that the committee rightly said in its own report that the requirement for language skills for a taxi driver would be an important issue. It is easy to agree with this, but I have not been able to find such a thing in any of these articles that the requirement for language skills is required and, according to the old truth, there is not always one that is not in any of these articles. This will go much better, but there will still be work to be done on the next series of corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u179	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u180	Mr President! Well, I guess the problem with the regulation was that the baby was wasted with the bath water. It was precisely this resignation that was the crucial mistake which was difficult to correct afterwards, even though many attempts were made to correct many things. Displacement may work in large cities and growth centres, but it is a problem, especially in rural areas and sparsely populated areas, where, in principle, there is a shortage of rides. I would have liked to raise one more point: However, we also have a new pitfall ahead of us, and I would like us to consider carefully how we are going to apply the directive on clean vehicles at national level. By name, Kela's contract period is coming to an end with regard to taxi transport, and it is now crucial, in particular, how we see this directive on clean vehicles being implemented in Finland. This must not lead to a further deterioration in the availability of Kela taxis with the next call for competition, and this is particularly the case in these sparsely populated regions. The danger arises from the fact that this transition to cleaner equipment will take place in such a rhythm that the taxi industry will not have an economic opportunity to respond to it. This has not yet been in the decision-making process, but I see similar dangers here as I saw in the reform of the taxi law of the previous period, and that is why I want to raise this issue in good time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u181	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u182	Madam President! This is the representative. Mr Eestilä asked the chairman of the committee whether we have thought about the concrete ways in which taxis can be obtained, for example, at night, and so it is that money is the key. In this presentation and in the draft report we have registered and stated that, among other things, the Consumer and Competition Office has provided guidance to taxi operators on how to agree locally between entrepreneurs on a kind of duty on duty and on-call duty. So the issue is, as it were, the same thing that was removed from the previous legislation, namely this on-call quota. And unfortunately, one piece of legislation will not be able to restore everything that was done by the previous one when this competition was opened up, and that is something that we will no longer be able to achieve by means of this legislation or by means of subsequent corrections. We'll never get to the exact situation we were in again. And I wondered what Mr Mäkelä had to say. We have had a very constructive and diverse debate and consultation in committee, and I think that the Finns of Peru have participated very well there and with the same spirit as the rest of us in the committee have done this series of amendments to the taxi law. Among other things, this issue of language skills related to education was very well raised in your group in committee, and together we formulated the wording so that we stressed that without an assistant in this training, these tests must be dealt with in either Finnish or Swedish, i.e. no interpreter should be used. This is as clearly recorded in this committee report as we have ever been able to do, and this has been a common will. That is why I am surprised at Mr Mäkelä's hard criticism of this issue. And yes, I say that it is precisely the greatest and worst fears that have occurred in connection with the Berner taxi reform and which we then raised in the opposition, like many experts, that have now been put to work on this correction, and that is why a great deal of effort has been made in the preparation of the ministry and now in Parliament in the work of the committee. — That is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u183	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u184	Mr President! Most likely a representative Mr Kymäläinen heard me a little wrong, because I specifically thanked the committee's report and the demand for language skills raised in it: it was good that it was recorded there. But at the same time I doubted whether this should be taken into account in practice enough in the final action and legislation and its implementation, because it is only at the level of the committee's report and not, apparently, in the section. I was worried about this. If this is all right, then it will be very good. As far as this station obligation and the on-call obligation are concerned, they virtually disappeared while the permit regulation was released, because the obligations on the place and on-call services were a kind of reward — in quotes — for having been allowed to drive a taxi, and now that the taxi licence is no longer regulated in the same way, it is also impossible to oblige entrepreneurs to be in a specific place to engage in their business, because there is a freedom of business in Finland and there is no obligation to engage in business at a certain time of the day. It is good to hear that there are such arrangements here that entrepreneurs would be able to agree between themselves on such shifts. It is a step in the right direction and I doubt, however, that there would be a need for some kind of carrot in this case, particularly in the least-run regions — whatever form it might take without being prohibited from state aid. But if it is not supported in business terms by the on-calling and the driving of the shifts, then some kind of support should be provided. Representative Salonen raised this requirement for the use of clean equipment in the Kela taxi, and this was a good lift. I have heard some discussions about this. I hope that there will be no demand for taxis to be forced into the electric car base until the technology is ready. So when you talk about one of Lapland, hundreds of miles away, tens of degrees below zero, you put some kind of electric truck pack in there. I personally have a rather neutral approach to technology, i.e. I am not in any way a particularly electric car-negative person, but yes, those technological realities must be taken into account, or it should be borne in mind from the other side that the equipment cannot be refurbished in such a way that it is inappropriate for its practical use.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u185	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u186	Madam President! The reform of the taxi law during the last period was a major failure, and everyone must also courageously speak of it with the right names. In that sense, we should now do everything we can to correct the mistakes of the last period. After all, this was in practice Minister Berner's project, which he strongly promoted, and the motivation behind this project is somewhat unclear. It was promised that deregulation of competition will improve taxi services, improve access and lower prices. Even then, we suspected that safety at least will suffer, and this has happened. I know a lot of people who are afraid even in the daytime to take a taxi in Helsinki, unless they really know who is driving that vehicle and what kind of driver is going to sit behind the wheel. Above all, you would expect the government now not to leave this proposal alone, but to go much further, as you promised at the beginning of the parliamentary term. I think it is inadequate that we should now, in a way, go to this bill alone, simply to seek ways of combating the shadow economy and then begin regulating the qualifications of a taxi driver in the form of various tests. These are important and good measures, but they will not resolve this issue. Many taxi drivers, whom I know very much, have already stopped in this area, and they have long communicated it to all Members of Parliament as well as to the Tax Administration that nothing can be done about this until a full refurbishment is made. Of course, this renovation is extremely difficult because everyone has freedom of business, and who can be steered out of it — that is the challenge. But it can be done if the will mode is enough. Those rotten apples that ruin this cab business, we gotta get them out of the business. It is not right for those who honestly pay their taxes to pay their insurance and do everything as the letter says in the law to be paid and paid in this matter. As regards this competition, I think that Kela, for example, has failed to do so. Kela competed for taxis in Helsinki and ruled out the competition Taxi Helsinki based on the fact that their offer was far too cheap and replaced by a company that particularly favours drivers whose qualifications are not so certain. This argument that their offer was too cheap cannot be valid in the sense that Taxi Helsinki has done its job to date, and their job was simply to secure the driver's livelihood and bread. This is a great injustice that the state, through its own companies, also weakens
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u187	On this point, I would like to say that from that round corridor, if you speak on your cell phone, you belong to this podium pretty well. This is just for the attention of the representatives present. — and then Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u188	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä here well explained the simple fact that, after all, the obligation to place and on-call was the inseparable couple with which taxi services worked and were secured. When no one wants to return to that station obligation any more, then we in Parliament will have to wonder how this matter will be resolved, because at least I am genuinely concerned that we have remote areas where it is very difficult to get a taxi, and that is not just a matter of getting it, but if you get it and it comes from a distance, it will cost you some money, and that was not the purpose of this law. Thank you to the chairman of the committee for having responded and just brought this up. I'm just telling you that I myself have been on call for weekends and some nights of sleep when there has been no work, and it has been paid for a few euros an hour, so that I was committed to being sober and available, of course, and did not go anywhere else. Of course, this same mechanism is one such one — even then I brought it up in Parliament and I was already sure that it would come here and have to be taken, perhaps not during the day, because if there are no taxis in one municipality, then it may already be too small and inviolable a municipality, but when it comes to the night, there must be an appropriate on-call ring for certain entrepreneurs who commit themselves to being available, and the journeys are not too long and the state and the municipality will have to pay for them together. To be honest, I do not see much other way of securing this service.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u189	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-30.u190	Madam President! Now to a few more points: Firstly, the possibility for entrepreneurs to agree on these on-call shifts: this is precisely what taxi operators themselves have wanted, and I am talking here about traditional taxi operators. When it came to the debate, how can it be possible that the Ministry does not have the information at the moment on where taxis operate, it is precisely because of the legislation that was adopted on the Berner reform, that is, there are entrepreneurs there and there, the grey economy has grown, taxis have not been identifiable, there has been no dome requirement and there could have been almost any means of transport for any operator. It was precisely intended to create a system that anyone could collect additional road fluids or other by starting taxis to drive or transport taxis on the basis of one of the online tests. Now that this legislation is going back, as it were, in order to improve the identification of taxis and also the possibilities for tax payers in connection with taxi drivers, the knowledge and location of where there are major shortcomings in access will be increased. As far as the Kela rides, which Mr Niikko raised here, are concerned, it has now come up on a number of occasions in this debate, namely that Kela rides are not within the remit of the Ministry of Transport and Communications but belong to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and that is why we in this report have stated that we hope that the Ministry of Transport and Communications will start preparing reforms for Kela rides and other public rides, and of course the Ministry of Transport and Communications will contribute to this preparatory work when the time comes. That is what we are saying, and we were not able to influence it here.
