ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u1	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u2	Mr President! We are now at the crossroads of our country and the history of the world. The great reset of the World Economic Forum, the great reset, Agenda 2030 and the creation of a new world order are in full swing. The World Economic Forum no longer even hides its agenda, but advertises on its Facebook pages: ‘In 2030, it is irrelevant and unsettled’. Mr President! Now, according to Fimea, there are 7445 people suffering from the adverse effects of vaccines in Finland, and this bill includes the service of the Defence Forces, I wonder if it is being decreed in case of fear of the awakening of misguided citizens and of getting angry and going out on the street when they discover that our independence has been handed over, our property has been taken away and our health care has also been scrapped. Ladies and gentlemen, our beloved country is now in a constitutional state, because the law is no longer being observed in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u5	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u6	Madam President! There's a lot to learn about interest-bearing years. Our laws of readiness were not at the level of giving clear tools to deal with this pandemic. We have had a number of temporary laws in this year and a half. Some of them have had good results and some may not have such good results, and their contents should be evaluated and learned even more afterwards. As a rule, the government has succeeded well in its management of the interest rate, but then there are those things where it would be good to stop together and think that if we had similar periods as a society, there would also be a lot to improve. One such thing that clearly rises is the management of the whole. When the President of the Republic made a proposal at the time to set up a working group that would focus only on this matter, on its management, on its understanding, on its overall proposals, on supervision and so on, the government rejected it. I consider it to be one of the most fatal mistakes of this corona. It was absolutely impossible that the government’s five, along with all its other work, could somehow have managed to control this corona management in the way it required. They've done things well, I don't blame them, but they could have been done even better. Then, in particular, this organization of vaccinations: As far as January was concerned, the government had no idea how to actually do vaccination, how to distribute vaccines, how to do actual vaccination in the whole country. Vaccinations came in huge amounts, they were standing in storage, waiting to be transported, waiting for someone to give the vaccines. It was only in the second half of May that the momentum that should have been from the start was reached. Several actors offered the government assistance, which was not good enough. It was thought again that we could get through this on our own. We're not gonna make it. The interest is something that requires all possible players. Had it been done as it had been possible, the nation would now have been vaccinated and we would already have this coverage of more than 70%. That would have been entirely possible, but this was not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u9	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u10	Madam President! Unfortunately, we had a situation for a long time that the limits were not caught by the corona leak, and now that they have been caught, it seems that they are not going to be able to open them securely. We have had a long time in Finland to look for a model for a functioning travel model, and it is regrettable that this left-wing government has not been able to do this job well. However, I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and its chairman, Mr Lohta, and his team for the fact that this proposal has now been improved. These green countries, the vaccinated ones and so on, have now been brought into this whole and it seems that this has gone a long way better in committee. But then, of course, these situations seem quite irresponsible. When it has been well known that people went to watch the European Championships for football also in St. Petersburg, and it was also well known that no one would want to stay there permanently, that they would also return there, so why would such a situation not bring border control into order that this return to Finland would have been a safe and smooth success? Now, in the worst case scenario, this series of transmission chains and the transmutation virus may lead to new restrictions on us. By the way, this has already happened in many countries in Europe, and now the latest forecasts indicate that this transformation virus will be the main strain of the virus in Europe since August. Well, in Article 16a of this law, Mr President, reference is made to this certificate. In this context reference is made to the Public Health Act 66/1972, and now that this law has been repealed yesterday, on 1 July 2021 the Public Health Act and the Special Health Care Act have been repealed, and now that this legislation, which we are about to implement today, refers to this Public Health Act, it would be interesting to hear an assessment now of how this Article 16a is being implemented. will take place when the Public Health Act is not currently in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u11	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u12	Madam President! There is indeed a so-called border proposal, a government proposal for a temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, and that is what we have been waiting for. The enthusiasm and optimism, with which the whole Chamber was prepared for this government proposal to be adopted today, is now overshadowed by the fact that, for example, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health ended up with these clarifications and proposals in its good report, including this Article 16a, which refers to this public health law. Public health law is not a very small law. The Public Health Act contains provisions on the role of Finnish municipalities in the organisation of health care. It has been in force since 72 C.E. and, in a way, it also gives municipalities the responsibilities and responsibilities that are needed at the moment, especially in this administration of the interest rate. Although I myself thought first of all about preparing for this speech and about this situation as a corona in general, I hope, Mr President, that this Chamber will be able to know in this context where the Council of Presidents has arrived in the morning to resolve this situation. We are taking a unanimous decision here by Parliament, which would bring this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases into force, but at the same time we are making the changes which are essentially referring to this law on public health. We have had this process of legislative change in the social welfare reform, the preparation, the error, the error, and the only right way to correct it is that we humanly acknowledge that the error has taken place, so that this House knows how to correct it. I think it is right and fair on the day that we have in this Chamber — at least thought we would be — for the last time in July in this period. Mr President! Let's get ready for this: I would indeed like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for this kind of bill. It is, of course, regrettable that we are in this situation that, after last week, the disease situation has risen again, but, as Mr Heinonen said here, it is so regrettable that our authorities, mainly on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, were not prepared for the necessary testing at the electoral border. I've been talking to more than one person on the border, and the Ministry of the Interior and Raja were prepared. In many places at the border, both in Nuijamaa and Vaalimaa, there were double occupations, and even then, on Tuesday, there were four passport inspectors but only two testers. We all know that when we lay down certain frameworks and frameworks in legislation for tests to be carried out there at the border, then it is also important that they are carried out and that our authorities act in such a way that they are carried out. Mr President! Then these new restrictions. At least this week it has been seen that restrictions are being tightened on Finns and on those who come to Finland in Europe, but also elsewhere, and, of course, it is regrettable that one of the factors is these increased infections, and in particular the EURO 2020 football Games. In the autumn when we go and, however, when we are jointly aware that vaccinations are supposed to be quite comprehensively advanced in Finland between September and October, there is a view from health care staff that we really have in this Chamber, and the government too, that there can still be restrictions in the autumn that would come in a way for new clusters of infections. When the vaccine coverage is so high, we must think in this Chamber that the restrictions that are in force between September and October will always apply. Mr President! I would really like the House to hear how the Council of Presidents has ended up as a process to correct this human error. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u13	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u14	Madam President! There is therefore a government proposal to the Parliament for the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. This proposal proposes to amend the Act on communicable diseases. The proposed amendments to the Act on communicable diseases aim to prevent the spread of covid-19 infections of foreign origin to Finland. Persons arriving in Finland would be required to have a reliable certificate of covid-19 disease within 6 months, an acceptable covid-19 vaccination series or a reliable covid-19 test demonstrating a negative result prior to arrival in Finland. If a person born to Finland in 2005 or before that would not be required to present a covid-19 test certificate, he or she should take a test on arrival in Finland and another covid-19 test within 72 to 120 hours of arrival in Finland, and those who have a certificate of a reliable covid-19 test prior to arrival in Finland should also take another covid test within 72 to 120 hours of arrival in Finland. This was the case in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. We Finns also consider it a good thing that the law was slightly lightened and, among other things, a record of the so-called green countries related to the covid epidemic was obtained here. Good speeches were made here. Mr Laukkanen, you raised some background to this corona epidemic. I would also like to say a few words about resources, on which we will also comment. We took a position on them in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and they have also been mentioned very often here. It is a great thanks to the social and health care staff that we have managed to cope so well with this covid-19 epidemic. I think it is very important that in future more attention be paid to the fact that we have enough staff and skilled people to deal with these serious and extremely dangerous situations. How, then, do we encourage people to go into a sector that is obviously also dangerous? This covid-19 epidemic has shown that the medical staff is also afraid. There's been a lot of communication that I'm protecting myself and how I'm protecting my family. It is important that the government pays attention, among other things, to interest payments, which have been paid to staff in other parts of the world. For once, I would like to hear the answer to the question of how Finland treats, for example, the interest-rate allowance for social welfare and health care staff and for all those working in the sector. It is inevitable that the elderly have been one large group of covid sufferers. It is true that the long isolations in which older people have been have contributed to the lack of activity. Unmovement contributes to fragility, and loneliness directly affects memory functions, among other things. It is also important that there is sufficient resources to ensure that older people can be managed at present, but also in the future, in these challenging patterns, such as those associated with this isolation. Then, Mr President, I would also like to raise the question of the repeal of the public health law mentioned by Mr Heinonen. After all, we had the mistake of abolishing the public health law, which is in fact the legal basis for public health care, in the context of the reform of social welfare and health care. And that is not all: the special care law, except for the two articles, was also overturned at the same time. And now it is important to hear, when we have been given great speed — or the government has been given great speed and hastily and hastily — to postpone the reform of social welfare and health care, what we are doing now, with the repeal of our laws, which are vital to us. It is very important to have an answer to this. It may be that we will come to Parliament again in the summer break to redefine these laws. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u15	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u16	Mr President! We are dealing here with the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, specifically as regards how we can prevent the spread of the disease, viruses from outside the borders, but we could still keep Finland open, i.e. people able to move around and tourism would also recover. It is no easy combination in such a situation, since we have already seen many of these virus variants, and I will just say that there will be quite a few more. That is why it is very important that these, you can say, are really carefully thought out and tailored — I have always been in favour of tailoring it — but then these situations are also taken seriously here in Parliament. Of course, in our personal lives, we must take seriously the fight against this disease and take care of the hygiene issues that have been investigated as good. In any case, I believe that this proposal is now balanced and, of course, it is important that we have sufficient resources at the borders. The problem is that there has been such a stumbling block, both at airports, at ports and then at land border points. Resources are needed to ensure that these are taken care of, and then, of course, the disipline and spine itself, that they also take care of these protective equipment and, overall, hygiene issues. Well, then we were talking about this very resource issue, which Mr Juvonen also referred to. It is very good that a change has been made to allow the private sector to be involved in this, because we will need more testing capacity to do so. By the way, it is the same after this interest rate and already at the moment: the maintenance debt is huge, and that is where we need the service bills too, where we need the private sector to be involved. And to Mr Juvonen, I would like to thank you for raising the medical staff. In other countries, there has also been some disturbance of the medical staff because of fear of spreading the disease, and this has been very distressing. There has not been much of this in Finland, but I know that many covid patients are afraid to say where they are currently working. That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen, that we are able to create peace of work for this care staff and that we get that staff there. After all, many health care professionals have been affected, not only by the acute care of covid patients, but by the whole chain. That is why I hope that these things will be taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u17	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u18	Madam President! This is an important law that will hopefully clarify border practices. As the previous speaker said, this has been a stumbling block, especially as far as borders are concerned. From a broad perspective, of course, we have managed to manage the interest rate relatively well if we listen to estimates from experts as well as citizens, but the editorial of the Helsingin Sanomat today, which referred to this report by the Accident Investigation Authority, told us how our work then fell into the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and was pawned and perhaps not able to co-operate with the various administrative sectors. It came out pretty hard, didn't it? In other words, we will have to make these relationships of competence clearer in the future and, in any case, think about the chain of management and how decisions will then be taken in the regions. One representative has just mentioned this corona fist — this crisis management model certainly needs to be updated when we get through this. But, of course, the most important thing now is for this law to come into force, so that we can finally get a better grip on matters at that border.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u19	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u20	Madam President! The health safety of borders is absolutely vital at the time when we have this kind of epidemic in our hands. Our internal restrictions will be limited if there is a new virus coming from the borders all the time, and it is therefore important that they are taken care of. Onnettomuustutkintakeskus also drew attention to this fact that it was not under control at the beginning of the epidemic. This bill, this border-HE, is now reasonable and balanced in this situation. It targets border controls specifically for those coming from high-risk countries, and it should then be subject to strict control. It was also mentioned here that this proposal refers to the Public Health Act and that the Public Health Act has now been repealed yesterday. This is a certain problem here, because we are referring to a law that is not in force. As such, this paragraph is necessary and justified for private service providers to be able to check health certificates. I share Mrs Talvitie's view that we should be informed of the way in which these repealed laws, the Public Health Act and the Special Health Care Act will work. These are very important laws for health care in Finland. They involve the entire provision of special medical care, who is responsible for it. The Public Health Act is responsible for preventive care, our outpatient care. In practice, we are currently in a state of illegality with regard to them, and it is therefore justified that Parliament should be informed of what is now going on in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u21	In the course of the debate, Mr Turtiainen has proposed that the bill be rejected. The proposal has not been supported, so it lapses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u22	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament should decide to suspend the Parliament at the end of this sitting and to continue its work on Tuesday 7 September 2021 at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-02-ps-88.u23	Ladies and gentlemen! Our spring session ends here. Because of the interest rate, the past year has been extremely exceptional for all of us. Thank you to each representative and the entire staff of the house for their flexibility in recent months. I very much hope that on 7 September we could start parliamentary work without any restrictions on interest rates. It would be wonderful to see the Chamber and the diner full of rested and enthusiastic representatives at that time. With such a wish picture, I wish all representatives, officials, assistants, the entire staff of the house and the media reporting from Parliament a good and relaxing summer.
