ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u1	Today, the plenary will return to normal premises in full numbers and, as a change to the corona procedures, the Council of Presidents at its recent meeting has deleted the recommendation for a mask for the plenary session. The representative's own consideration is whether he still wants to wear a mask. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as usual, representatives are opening their own microphones when speaking from their own place. The microphones of the podiums and ministerial bodies open up the session technician. The workstations have now been removed, as you can see, and the microphone is opened continuously by pressing the microphone icon in the lower left corner of the representative panel for at least one and a half seconds. The button turns red when the microphone is open, and at the same time the microphone’s red indicator lights up. The microphone automatically closes when the next microphone is opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 45 minutes will be set aside for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases will be followed. — Let's go to the conversation. Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u3	Mr President! There is a government proposal to reform the lottery law. In addition to the lottery law, the proposal proposes to amend some accompanying laws. The Government Programme and this proposal aim to combat gambling disadvantages more effectively. In addition, the aim is to strengthen the ability to combat the supply of gambling outside the exclusive right system and to steer demand towards the gambling offering regulated by the lottery law. Most of the legislative amendments are due to enter into force from the beginning of 22 C.E. Mr President! EU law defines the exclusivity system and therefore the framework of gambling legislation. The system must primarily be based on the fight against gambling disadvantages. This proposed revision of the lottery law contains a number of measures to improve the fight against gambling disadvantages. EU law allows consumers to be guided by regulated gambling as long as these measures do not encourage excessive gambling. The proposal also contains such elements in support of the operating conditions of the exclusivity system. The fight against harm will be enhanced, for example through mandatory identification, which will be gradually extended to all forms of gambling. For online games and automatic gaming, mandatory authentication is already in use. At the beginning of the year 23 at the latest, and at the beginning of the year 24 at the latest, there would be a transition to identification in the lottery, betting and other coupon gambling. The advantage of comprehensive authentication is that it is possible for the authority, player and bet to impose various restrictions and inhibitions on gaming. Mandatory authentication increases the amount of game data available. Betting would have the right and also the obligation to use data to identify and address harmful gambling. The Act would also provide the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Institute for Health and Welfare with the right to receive personal data from Veikkaus. This is important in order to improve the fight against research and knowledge-based harm. However, the analysis of gambling data would always be carried out at group level and the data would not be processed by an individual player. This proposal, which is now under discussion, would ban the marketing of cash machines and introduce a new obligation to design the principles of the placement and use of cash machines in such a way that the disadvantages are minimised. Special attention should be paid to the protection of minors and vulnerable persons. Automatic machines should also be placed in such a way that they can be easily controlled. The new marketing rules have also taken account of the fight against gambling disadvantages. The new regulation would specify the content of the marketing allowed for betting. In addition, the entire marketing of the bet should be moderate. The law would also provide for prohibited marketing practices. Furthermore, so-called gaming target information would no longer be allowed to be provided for harmful gambling. As is the case today, the marketing of harmful games would be allowed at the casino and in the gaming room. On the other hand, in order to guide gambling demand, the marketing of betting and betting games would in future be allowed under the constraints described above. Although the current lottery law contains an explicit ban on marketing non-Veikkaus gambling games, several operators outside the exclusive regime deliberately direct their marketing here using, for example, Finnish in their marketing. The aim of marketing is to obscure consumers' perception that gambling communities have the right to execute gambling in Finland. This kind of gambling marketing is particularly common on the Internet. In order to eliminate the marketing of the lottery law, the proposal proposes the introduction of an administrative penalty fee. A marketing ban and a penalty fee could also be imposed on a private individual in the future. A penalty fee could also be imposed on Veikkaus in breach of the abovementioned new marketing rules. The lottery law influences the way in which disadvantages are combated within the exclusive regime. However, this alone is not enough; at the same time, external supply must be affected. For this reason, the proposal incorporates provisions on anti-payment traffic. They would target gambling companies that, contrary to the lottery law, are targeting their marketing to Mainland Finland and whose marketing has been banned by the Police Board. The police government would publicly maintain a so-called list of such gambling companies. Banks and other payment service providers should prevent payment transactions between gambling companies and players on a blocking list. The lottery law enables the subsidiaries of Veikkaus to conduct business between companies. The game development expertise of Veikkaus could therefore be used commercially, selling services and products to foreign gaming companies. It is not about offering gambling services to consumers abroad. The amendments are expected to come into force mainly from the beginning of next year. The introduction of mandatory identification and non-payment barriers requires substantial technical changes, which would lead to a gradual application of the provisions. All gambling would have been authenticated by the year 24 at the latest. Mr President! Very often, in the context of the lottery law, the proceeds of gambling activities are also spoken of. However, in the eyes of EU law, the maintenance of an exclusive system or measures relating to its development cannot be justified by revenue. Effective harm prevention measures inevitably have an impact on gambling and thus on the return of Veikkaus. This revision of the lottery law does not interfere with the future of the distribution of profits. The distribution of income is currently under discussion in a separate project run by the Prime Minister’s Office. The purpose of the project is to draw up a proposal for a new financing model for the financing of activities financed by gambling revenue from the beginning of 24 C.E. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u4	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u5	Mr President! With this speech, I will probably block my access to the Board of Governors of Veikkaus forever, but so be it. The Finnish gambling system is sick. Our sick gambling system is cloaked in the polished advertising materials of Veikkaus, which are used to cover up pain spots. We are told time and again how gambling is developed to be more responsible and how the winnings of Veikkaus are used for a good purpose. Time and again, under the guise of these explanations, our sick gaming system will gain more life, and politicians will bless its survival among us. Even though our gambling system is ill, it is dangerously capable of acting in its own best interests and spreading nausea. As a result, it is estimated that there are 112,000 citizens in Finland who suffer from gambling problems. When you add people close to people with gambling problems, [ The speaker shows himself] Mr President! I do not want foreign gaming companies to riot in Finland and syphilis with Finnish money. We already have a domestic gambling monopoly, which has also had too much freedom for years. Politicians should now focus on the fact that, while foreign players remain in control, our own gambling monopoly can also be controlled. The game monopoly has been created to protect the well-being of citizens, not to ruin them. Once the situation has reversed, the system must then be corrected. It would have been a long time ago. At the latest, this reality should be awakened. The government's proposal to reform the lottery law does not want to interfere with the fact that grocery stores operate as a gambling cave in this country. Usually gambling dens are considered illegal. But it is perfectly legal in Finland that our grocery stores have long rows of gaming machines in which citizens lose a long penny. Unlike the government, a chain of stores saw the lines of machines so irresponsible that they decided to remove them from their stores. The bet is loudly proclaiming how it has reduced the number of scattered gaming machines recently. But if some 18,500 machine jungles are reduced to some 10,000 machine jungles, we still have 10,000 gaming machines too far where they should not be. Regardless of game limits or authentication, thousands of gaming machines remain in an environment where every Finn has to go to get their food — and the children with them. When gambling takes you away, the sound and light effects that are familiar with the gaming machines of the stores will be preserved, but the games will change and the stakes will increase. In the end, gambling can take up all the time and money available. Instead of spending time with their children, the time is dwindling in online casinos, where all the money goes down to children’s allowance. Responsible action loses its meaning when the whole life and future of the gambling addict and his loved ones is at stake. One of the biggest flaws in our entire gaming system is tying the funding of organizations to money that has been collected from those with gambling problems. This problem has also been recognised by the government, but a solution is still awaited to break this unhealthy dependence. Instead, long working groups would not have had to have their terms of office cut off the roots of the gambling addiction cycle and decided to remove the gaming machines from the shops. The action could have started immediately. The government was not ready for that, and our sick gambling system is being patched up with patches. However, even beautiful patches do not cure the problem, but cover it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u6	Thank you. — and Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u7	Mr President! Over the course of the year, the situation has changed rapidly as a result of interest rate restrictions and measures to control gambling problems. The digital environment has also significantly changed the market situation in Veikkaus, as the monopoly is being forced to compete against international players, especially through online casinos and sports betting. We need a sensible and responsible lottery law. Access to gambling is still to be restricted in order to combat harm. Mandatory identification is absolutely necessary and a good thing. The performance of the bet must be crediblely responsible. This should also be taken into account in the marketing of game products. Mr President! It is good that efforts are being made to limit the operating conditions of foreign gambling companies, for example by preventing financial transactions, in order to defend the position of the gambling monopoly. This is important, although, as the proposal also states, monitoring is in reality quite difficult. There should be constantly updated, up-to-date prevention lists in payment transactions, and even if direct payment traffic between Finnish accounts and foreign gaming companies could be prevented even for the most part, there would still be a number of ways of circumventing regulation. One example is the transfer of money from a Finnish bank account to a foreign online bank and from there to the gaming company. Repatriating profits would work in a similar way. Mr President! The goal must be to secure the position of Veikkaus, as the flow of game returns abroad is not in the interests of Finns. At the same time, however, responsibility and the fact that problem gambling is a serious social disadvantage must be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u8	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u9	Mr President! The good minister and colleagues and the rest of the plenary session will follow! We have the pending lottery law 2, which will continue to push that lottery law one forward. If I start with good things, I welcome the creation of such a subsidiary of Veikkaus, where this Finnish expertise can be sold abroad. That is, the knowledge of the development of games — not of the game itself, as the Minister also pointed out, but of the high knowledge of the development of games that we have, but also of these different issues of responsibility, I hope. It is good that we have such an opportunity, and we know that we have a lot of private companies, listed companies, in Finland, which have a lot of this know-how, but it is also available to our state companies, Veikkaus, and it is good to sell it abroad and thereby make some of the benefits available to us in Finland as well. Well, then, there is much more to the problems in this proposal: the loss limit, the blockage of the Internet, the money transfer block and the fate of slot machines. Unfortunately, this proposal does little to address the problems of the game itself. I would have expected the measures to be more effective in dealing with gambling problems. According to the latest information, over 100,000 people suffer from serious gambling problems — over 50,000 of them are gambling addicts. We all know someone, if not very close to them, from those close to them who have these problems — very serious, where tens of thousands of euros are lost, debted to life, and then those who play these shops games and actually make themselves poor after every pension. A recent study by THL indicated that the link between social benefits and harmful gambling is in fact quite clear. Although those living on benefits play less than those in employment, their relative share of problem gamblers is greater than that of those in work. Well, this loss limit question: I would have said to Minister Ohio that, now that you have opened this legislation, September was introduced as part of the Veikkaus own responsibility programme, this EUR 2 000 loss limit, but we would be prepared to continue to calculate it. It is quite high, and often there is a slight feeling that this limit is so high that it may have been said that ‘we offer a loss limit’, but it does not help these people who are struggling with these gambling problems. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to intervene. Betting has reduced slot machines by about 40 per cent, and now also loss limits are becoming mandatory and authentication is also part of it. I believe that, in this situation, we should be prepared to move slot machines to completely controlled premises. It would have been possible to do that in this performance. In this proposal, the latest means of managing your own gambling will be identification, which will take effect — the Minister said just now — by 24 C.E. at the latest. I had understood that 23, but that too would have been very late. This could still be speeded up. I welcome the fact that, as a result, Veikkaus will become the only gaming company in the world that has been identified by all gambling. In the future, leaving the lottery ticket will therefore require identification — a good thing. It is estimated that all this will reduce gambling by around EUR 500 million — hopefully also contributing to gambling problems. Well then, this online block: Now you have to ask the Greens if you want an online block, an Internet block, when it is presented by the Greens' own chairman, the Greens' Minister. I understand that you have specifically defended the transparency of the Internet, and now you believe that by restricting the Internet, these problems are being solved. [Heli Järvinen’s interlude] I think it is perhaps good that this restriction on advertising should be stepped up. After all, we have long been in a situation where, in practice, the control of advertising has only been directed at the bet and not much else. Now these measures are also targeted at foreign gaming companies — that is all right and welcome. Mr President! It is also worth noting that in the world, but we already have examples of the fact that strict restrictions on gambling have also brought with them, for example, illegal gambling dens, which were mentioned above. In fact, we now have long-standing restaurant locks, but also, for example, the removal of these roulette and this type of restaurant has given rise to a growing number of these so-called dark gaming caves, casinos, in Finland. This is really a growing problem for us, and it is worth watching what is happening around this, and hopefully this too will be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u10	Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take Mr Gustafsson again, and since then everyone who has been in line for a longer time has been able to speak. Then, if there's a willingness, let's go to the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u11	Mr President! It's great to talk about this right now and see you all working together live on the spot. It's a bet company.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u16	I think this one, Mr. Gustafsson, here. — — — — And now it really seems that after this speech there is a willingness to debat. Stand up, press the V button. — And Mr Essayah will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u18	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u19	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for bringing this important legislative package to Parliament. I see this as a balanced package of very necessary corrections to this law. Mr Gustafsson spoke very wisely here and talked about taking account of this overall situation and the social situation. Combating gambling harm is very important, and that is why it is also the main objective of this law. Corrections are already being made here, and now, when this law comes into force, it is also necessary to follow the effects of this law and continue to do so in the future. But it is quite clear that when we consider the position of these organizations at the next stage, when so many organizations are also dependent on funding, it is important that their funding can also be secured in the long term and created a predictable framework for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u20	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u21	Mr. Speaker! I think that Mr Gustafsson has actually said in exactly the same way as I myself think that gambling is also a pleasure. You can't deal with all players as problem players, but those problem players are a problem separately, and you help them and you try to get better and better. What I did not understand was that Mr Gustafsson, as chairman of the Veikkaus Board, was once again talking about illegal foreign gaming companies. What are these illegal gaming companies? It may be strange that as a basic Finnish, you have to defend European free competition,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u24	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u26	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u27	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation, and there have been many good speeches from colleagues. I have been pleased that the government program was recorded in an attempt to limit the disadvantages of gambling. After all, the problem is an age-old problem, but it is now also moving forward at the legislative level. I remember from decades ago the lines of sad grandmas and grandpas over gaming machines. There seemed to be no joy in playing games when little pensions were played off with a frenzy. I would also like to thank Mr Veikkaus for his willingness to act responsibly in reducing the risk of gambling. Experience experts, for example, have been involved in harm reduction work, whose views have been taken into account. These expert approaches are best reflected in the principles of slot placement and unhindered supervision. In the future, attention must be paid to where the machines are placed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u28	And Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u29	Mr President! It is clear that one person with a gambling problem is too much, and that is why it is a good and right direction that this government has introduced mandatory authentication and personal loss limits and that the number of machines, the number of machines, has been reduced. We Greens would also be prepared to transfer them to the gaming halls, but the unfortunate truth is that neither will the game problems be eliminated but certainly will be one step in the future. An additional step is the blocking of payment traffic. But when people are talking about gambling problems, it is important to remember, as Mr Gustafsson also said, that problems are now building up in online gambling, which is growing on a wild ride. Every year, almost EUR 100 million will be added to a game that is played abroad, and we do not seem to control the marketing of foreign gaming companies. That is why I ask the Minister: what is to be done about this, and what does this new legislation bring, since the marketing of foreign gaming companies is already available up to Easter eggs?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u30	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u31	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson made a very strong speech here, and I can only agree with him. The amendment of the lottery law, the reform of the law, is necessary, and here it is very important to ensure the long-term security of the position and monopoly of Veikkaus. It is not only a question of controlling foreign gaming companies in such a way that profits do not flow abroad, but also, above all, that this gaming activity and the related activities are not a primary business but must identify these addiction problems, these disadvantages that have been mentioned here. In the same way that we have a monopoly on alcohol sales, Alko — why? Because Alko is also doing alcohol education at the same time. From the very same point of view, the monopoly must also be kept on the bet that we can also manage this gambling addiction problem in Finland at the same time. It is a genuine, serious problem that the government also recognizes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u32	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I very much agree with Mr Tavio. Now it is good to remember that all the restrictions apply to all people, and we are also talking here about the lotto gaming that everyone loves, so everyone will have to identify themselves in the future. It is good to note, at least as a lawyer, that at the same time we also collect information about the place where people live and how they behave in the registers, so that there is always more and more opportunity to know what the person in the habit is doing. Then I would have raised a few problems for the committee. The situation of the non-security people is unresolved. So it is already very difficult for people who have to take a security ban for their own protection to get a Veikkaus card, and whether they will then have to stop playing that beloved lottery once a week is open in that performance. And a lot of us are buying Christmas presents. What about in the future: Whose name does it sign up for when you buy Christmas gifts? Is it really the case, then, that the gifter will be a problem player in a moment? Here's a few for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u34	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u35	Mr President! A little crazy conversation. Here at the moment, the opposition defends the poor more than the government. [Heckling] Mr President! I do not deny that there are many good things in the law, but Minister Ohio,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u36	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u37	Mr President! Most of us feel sad human fates. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u38	Och ledamot Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u39	Irade the Talman! Vi har spapat oss ett ganska delikat problemm: Vi har en statlig verksamhet som visst skapar glädje, men också skapar problemm, och med den finansierar vi sedan andra verksamheter som vi alla tycker att är goda och försvarbara.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u40	Mr President! Irade the Talman! Maximize profits and minimize harm — the task is impossible. What is the EUR 2000 threshold based on? Nobody can afford to lose that kind of money. This amount must definitely be reduced. Finland needs to prepare to dismantle Veikkaus' monopoly quickly and move to a licensing system such as in Denmark and Sweden: Veikkaus will remain strong, control will improve, harm can be tackled earlier and government revenue will be preserved through taxes and licence fees. I find it quite incomprehensible that no calculations have been made in Finland. Even if you do not want to enter a licence-based system, it should at least be investigated. Maximize the profits and minimize the disadvantages — this is really not being respected by the left-wing government, it maximizes the profits. People living with income and housing benefits, who are disadvantaged, put their last euro into the slot machines in the shops, and ministers are watching from the sidelines,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u41	Now, Mr Harkimo, the time has come. — And Minister Ohio, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u42	Mr President! Good speeches have been made, thanks to the representatives. One of the questions that was asked was this marketing. One of the ways that we are now bringing to this toolbox is, for example, that the Police Government could in future target its prohibition decision on marketing against lottery law also on a natural person, that is to say, a public person who is marketing international gambling companies here. We see a lot of these on different channels at the moment. Various prohibitions and penalties are therefore coming. There was a bit of concern here that, in the future, we might not be able to buy lottery tickets or play Lotto. As Mr Heinonen said here, and as I myself raised in my speech, The bet will be ambitious in the fact that all gambling becomes identified as gambling. This means that the loss limits apply to all gambling, i.e. in practice this will also affect these other games. I agree with Mr Heinonen that, as Mr Heinonen said, would it not be possible to make these changes more quickly in terms of identification? Yes, if at all possible. In practice, if technically possible, before 23 years, and then in 24 only as a reference to these scratch marks — that is, they are at the last stage. So you can buy them more freely here for a while. However, I would like to point out how many speeches, since Mr Tynkkyse's first speech, have highlighted the huge problem facing society. We have a small group that plays very much. And one way to do this is that we will have more game data in the future, which will also be passed on to researchers, who will then be able to go through, not on a personal level, but at a research level, at a phenomenal level, who plays, how much, perhaps in what areas: how we can even better limit this and tackle the very players who lose most of all. I will sign all the human tragedies involved. It's something that needs to be addressed, and that's why there are tools here. Of course, the level of ambition could always be even harder. There was a conversation here about slot slot placements. Various views have also been expressed in this Chamber as to whether everything should be moved immediately. I have made my point in the past. This government proposal is now based on looking at this placement together and making such self-control plans with the holders of these machines and Veikkaus, that is to say, more control over this side. As far as the loss limits are concerned, there will indeed be these in all the identified gambling in the future. When Mr Mykkänen asked about the loss limits, I remember that the daily limit was EUR 1000 during your ministerial term. I have already counted half of it and I am prepared to look at this whole in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u43	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings in this context are now suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this same session after the other items of the order of business have been examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u44	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Representative Mattila absent — Representative Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u45	Madam President! In my view, the government's proposal to reform the lottery law is too little and too late. The main problem with the presentation is to bring the solutions of the past world to today's demands. Good intentions have paved the way for an increasingly strange situation. It is commendable that gambling problems and other harmful aspects of gambling have finally become part of the public debate and, of course, there are also good points in the proposal. We hope that the current investigation will end with a call for a break in the unfair link between gambling losses and the third sector and a transfer of money lost by gambling to the budget. Unfortunately, however, as far as the overall picture of the performance is concerned, Finnish society is far behind in its defeat. The Finnish does not always win, even though it has been claimed otherwise. It is sad that we are still leaving a huge number of gaming machines that normalise, promote and encourage gambling all over Finland, for the most important everyday business routes, shops and kiosks, thousands of them all over the country. It would be most sensible to move the machines into controlled separate spaces and significantly reduce the number of slots. I would like to express my special thanks to the active people of the Gaming Machines Stores campaign for exemplary civic influence. Proposals may also be seen as a special feature in restricting the Internet and people's payment services when, according to a number of studies, this is a costly and poorly functioning system. The Ministry of the Interior's own report for 2019 states that the prevention of payment traffic would appear to be circumventable on the basis of expert meetings and the Commission's study. According to a study commissioned by the Norwegian Supervisory Authority, gambling problems have increased in Norway and the margins of foreign gaming companies have increased between 2015 and 2019, when payment traffic restrictions have been in force. The Legislative Evaluation Council also highlighted the European Commission's report that the prevention of payment transactions requires comprehensive measures, but it is easy to circumvent them. ‘It is not possible It would be smarter to think about how to truly manage gambling in society. This was also taken into account by the Legislative Evaluation Council, which stated that the proposal deals in a limited way with the different options and the related costs and benefits to achieve the objectives. Madam President! Today there has been a rather romantic debate about how lottoing would in some way be a national trait for Finns and buying a lot would be a privilege that belongs to everyone. I think it is important that this whole is dealt with more through data, objectivity and calmness, and not as perhaps you are used to thinking about things. We must be prepared to see that the world has changed and that Finnish systems must also change with them. I am very sure that this system will be reformed as a whole in the coming years, and the first step is to transfer the entry of Veikkaus to the state treasury. We can keep physical games and loto and guesses on the bet, but playing online is the smartest thing to get license-based, controlled, regulated and sanctioned. This will be done over the next four to ten years, and in time it will be discovered that this should have been done earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u46	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u47	Madam President! I was quite surprised by Mr Könttä's brief speech. I was looking forward to an even longer look, but as I said about his view: a full one, and in many respects I can, of course, agree with that, for example, as regards the future of Veikkaus. I too believe that this system will change in the next few years or a decade. Unfortunately, there was no time for discussion today with the Minister on how he sees the position of Veikkaus, for example, in 2030 or beyond, and on the other hand on how to evaluate and analyse this licensing system in the future. I myself am, at least at this point, a supporter of this monopoly, and the measures that are now being taken in relation to this legislation are being carried out, but yes, that blockage, the blocking of payments, is something that I believe should now be carefully looked at and evaluated in this House. As the previous speaker said, it would seem that it is expensive and works poorly, it can be easy to circumvent. It is a question of whether it brings sufficient benefits or more of the expenses that have already been seen in some countries. In other words, this is the kind of thing I would like to see if we can get to grips with it and evaluate it and look at it. This legislation has also been called Band-Aid legislation in this Chamber today. I don't know how to take a stand on it yet, but as a whole, there are more angles here than one, as it were, open from the bet. We are going through this lottery legislation, then we are going to have a debate on it now, and we are going to find out how this Veikkaus revenue will be paid in the future without being directly earmarked for something. So this is a very wide-ranging whole. But then I will also say that, when this debate takes place, there has been a bit of double standards here, particularly on the social media side, but also a little here in the Chamber. There is real concern about the disadvantages of gambling and what gambling on machines will cause, but similarly the same people in the social media want to release alcohol, especially wine, more strongly. So we're really worried about the damage to the game, but not about the alcohol damage. We have already had a debate here today on tobacco, that is, there are many sectors, and that is when we look particularly at the opposition speeches that have been made here today, but unfortunately those speakers are no longer here. We need to talk about all these disadvantages and assess them. But at the end of the day, Mr President, this most important point, this obstacle to payment services and its elimination: I hope that it will be properly dealt with in the committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u48	Congressman Mykkänen is gone. — Representative Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u49	Irade fru talman! Vi har diskaterat Veikkaus, och Veikkaus har ju ju s history, vilket bland you give ledamot Gustafsson lyfte upp. Och factum är ju att under årtionden så har just specandet hos många generalat en hel del vämående, dels för organisationer men förstås också för den enskilda individen som har spelat och spapat ett mervärde, och vämående den vägen ur glädjens perspectiv. Revideringen av lotterilagen är en del av regeringsprogrammet och syftet är att effecttivare bekämpa spelskadorna. Nu utvidgas bland give an identity till below penningspel och Polisstyrelsen ges bredare öjligheter till att ingripa i lagstridig marknadsföring. Veikkaus får även bredare tillgång till speldata och i enskilda fall kan de ingripa i skadligt spelande. Åldersgränsen är ju 18år.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u50	Irade fru talman, Madam President! Det är viktigt att vi har fått det rai lagförslaget till ricksdage. Tack till ministern för en bra presentation här tidigare och tack för ett bra arbete med lagförslaget. Att minska risken för skador av spelberoende samt att säkerstä Veikkaus vinster för allmänyttiga ändamål är viktigt. Veikkaus vinstmedel används till ändamål inom tredje sector gällande kultur, idrott, ungdoms- och social verksamhet. Det är verksamhet som är extreme viktig för samhället. Lagförslaget tryggar också med den arv utformningen i practicen Pafs fortsata existens på Åland. Paf på Åland likanar Veikkaus. Enligt Ålands självstyrelselag är lotterifrågor åländsk behörighet. Paf betalar lotteriskatt till finansministeriet på samma sätt som Veikkaus, och de skatterna betalas sedan från finansministeriet till landskapet Åland. Paf är ägt till 100 percent av landskapet Åland och vinsterna används till samma ändamål på Åland som Veikkaus i fasta Finland. De går till kultur, idrott, sociala ändamål och ungdomsverksamhet. Åland får inte Veikkaus-medel och just därför är Pafs medel livsviktiga. I själva verket kanske man kunde argumentera att Pafs medel på Åland till och med är än ännu viktigare än Veikkaus medel i fasta Finland, effectsom Åland inte har några betydande allmäntiga fonder på samma sätt som är finns i fasta Finland. Tredje sectorn är alltså helt beroende av Paf-medel, och det är också en överlevnadsfråga för tredje sectorn på Åland. Paf, som har drygt 200 arbetsplatser på Åland, är också en mycket viktig arbetsgivare i landskapet. Irade the Talman! Paf har inte marknadsfört sig activt i fasta Finland på 15 år sedan den så kallade Borgfreden mellan riket och landskapet gjordes, och man är mycket noga med att följa lagen. Man är så noga med det att då till example IFK Mariehamn specialist matchr i Veikkauslai på Åland eller cupmatcher inomhus så tucker man över Pafs marknadsföring också på Åland för att säkerstalla att man inte strider mot överenskommelserna och reglerna på något ättt. Det rauh förslaget innebär nu att man kan upprätta en spärrlista för de bolag som bryter mot den raus marknadsföringen. Det betyder ingen förändring för åländska Paf, som inte bedrivit marknadsföring i fasta Finland på 15 år. Däremot betyder det en förändring för utländska aktörer om man marknadsför sig activt. På så vis är förslaget balanserat. Det är EU-notifierat och det har redan fått godkänt av EU-Commissionen och vi kan på så vis nu börja detaljbehandlingen i riksdagens förvaltningsutskott med utlåtande av grundlagsutskott.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u51	Mr President! There has been a good debate here today on this amendment to the lottery law, and serious attention has been paid here to the role of Veikkaus as well as as as a community of general interest, but also, in a sense, as a community responsible for dealing with this problem of gambling addiction, which has been dealt with in many ways. In my opinion, it is very important that: The monopoly position of Veikkaus will be maintained both in relation to these foreign operators, who are more money-intensive in transport, and above all because of the fact that this educational role in relation to gambling addiction can be identified. Those people who know something about gambling addiction in person understand what it is all about. It is a serious, serious challenge, the amount of games a person himself no longer prescribes. The joy of the game easily turns into gambling when you're addicted to the situation, and the passion turns into a game run, which then ends up in hell. It's a perfect dead end where you're in a situation where being anxious takes you away. Here's where the money goes bad, then there's an even more valuable thing, that is, time. Personally, I have the courage to say just enough about this that I recognise gambling addiction. I have also looked in the mirror in a situation where at midnight I suddenly noticed that I play chess, instant games, and it takes, takes and takes, and then I have a very humble attitude toward all kinds of addictions. I realize that it is a serious challenge for people to control this phenomenon. That is why it is very important here that as much as Alko has to take care of alcohol dependence, so also Betting plays a key role in caring for this gambling addiction problem and trying to get people past it. Here the opposition has pointed out that this monthly limit of EUR 2000 should be a ceiling for that loss, and I think that the Minister has already said that it would be worth examining whether it is actually too high. For many people it is economically too high definitely. It's all about family relationships and, of course, possessions and everything. Those people are low-income people who are often in these gambling addiction situations and difficult settings when gambling is at stake, and this is something that is worth paying attention to. So all we can do is recognize this addiction problem and try to support a person in that he is ultimately in control of himself in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u52	Congressman Kauma is gone. — Representative Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u53	Madam President! After all, there are actually two key structural problems in our Finnish gambling system, which have also been highlighted in the public debate in recent years. The first is a significant group of game addicts, which the system contributes to maintaining and which is also likely to attract people who are addicted to re-addicting games, and then, on the other hand, is the dependence of our cultural, sporting and free-field players on the betting profits. This draft lottery reform does not provide a solution for either of these. On the contrary, it avoids these problems and it is very regrettable that solutions to these very issues are needed. The main provider of gambling addiction in Finland is the gambling machines of shops. That is not what this bill is about to remove. Thus, the main provider of gambling problems remains in his current position. On the other hand, this does not solve the structural problem which we have, that the main source of funding for culture, sport and non-governmental organisations will continue to be the money generated and collected from gambling, which, of course, also creates an unhealthy incentive between the two, i.e. gambling and the disappearance of gambling and, on the other hand, the financing of matters that are very much to be supported and supported. Instead, this bill brings an entirely new factor to our gambling field, and it is these blockages of money transfers that cannot be regarded as an idea to be supported in any way. It has already been pointed out in several speeches that, first of all, it is quite possible to circumvent them. They do not actually like it either, but at the same time they do create a bag full of other problems to solve any of the previous problems. This is because, first of all, even Mr Veikkaus himself does not claim that these blockages will be very successful in raising any new money. It is not even argued in the government's proposal, but such a blockage does give rise to significant problems for those payment intermediaries who then have a duty to ensure that these blockages are actually carried out. And I am pleased to hear that some of the representatives of the government parties have criticised this project here, and I hope that this in committee will succeed in dropping this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u54	Representative Talvitie absent, representative of Wallinheimo absent, representative of Kinnunen absent, representative of Hoskonen absent. — — — — Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u55	Mr President! The purpose of the draft lottery law is to strengthen the position of Veikkaus in a changed market situation. We must remember that the alternative to dismantling the monopoly status would be an ever stronger campaign by international gaming companies on the Finnish market. It would have a number of negative effects, since these gaming companies are not responsible at all, but simply trying to maximise their profits. The solution would mean that gambling profits would end up outside Finland’s borders to an increasing extent and that gambling advertising would increase. We'd have more gambling addiction. So let's stick to our good system, but at the same time encourage Betting to act more and more responsibly to reduce the risk of gambling. Mr President! Gambling must be directed towards a legal, responsible and controlled game offering. Authentication will gradually become mandatory in all of Veikkaus' games, and that is an excellent thing. At the same time, effective means must be sought to intervene in the activities of foreign gaming companies in order to safeguard the position of the monopoly. Marketing against lottery law will be addressed in the future, as will the financial transactions of gambling companies. I dealt with the difficulty of financial control here in the day. Effective supervision of financial transactions is, of course, difficult in practice, as the prevention list can be circumvented, for example, by using an online bank operating abroad. This code, however, has a role to play. There is absolutely every reason to intervene in marketing. Finns deserve a well-functioning gambling system, the proceeds of which are directed to important targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u56	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u57	Thank you, Madam President. I think that the previous speech rightly stated that marketing needs to be addressed. And one big, as it were, blind dot has been precisely these gaming machines that we have in everyday life. They are therefore advertising areas that attract, market, normalise this culture of gaming for Finns from the moment they were born. Whether you identify yourself or not, a person looks around and sees that a yaw, this is normal that you can go to that game as part of the shop. These too are worth a lot of money. In other words, it advocates that this marketing already in the current model should be tackled more effectively, whether it is a domestic operator or a foreign operator. And it is clear that Finland must comply with the rules that have been drawn up together, then with regard to this marketing or other activity that we are regulating here. Mr Rydman rightly spoke about this charging policy. I am not going to go there, because I myself mentioned it earlier, but perhaps I would like to correct it in this debate, when many of us, as it were, assume that we could not control these foreign players in such a different model, a licence model that, for example, is in use in Sweden. That is not true. They would be controlled by licensing rules, they would be controlled by a lottery tax mechanism: we could decide for ourselves what this lottery tax is to generate income here in the country of origin. They would be controlled by sanctions, controlled by advertising bans. And, of course, it would also be possible to impose sanctions or fines or other sanctions separately for any violation of all of this. I believe that those who wish to defend this current system can defend using perfectly valid arguments, but it would not be worth — at least for my part, I would like to do so — as if we were having this debate in a naive, black-and-white manner, noticing that there are different options in different models. The Council for the Evaluation of Legislation, which I have high regard for, has itself drawn attention to the need to look at different models. We should also think about the 2030s, when, according to all the signs, this will gradually be broken down anyway. It would be better to carry out a self-controlled reform than to allow the situation to go too far, which, as it were, is already in need, and then you can only do what is absolutely necessary. That there's still time. I say that, we are already late, but there is still time for a more sensible reform than what is on this table.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u58	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u59	Madam President! What Mr Könttä said earlier is easy to agree with. Although, on the basis of our legislation, we in principle and in principle have a monopoly system in place, the technological environment in which gambling takes place today is very different from the environment in which the existing legislation has been written in due course and under which conditions it has been formulated. Indeed, an increasing proportion of gambling is taking place today via the Internet, and that will undoubtedly increase in the future. In fact, no matter what kind of legislative system we have around our gambling policy, in any case what is happening on the Internet is in a competitive environment, and no matter how much we have a monopoly system, it actually has to compete in the digital market. In this case, it will soon come to the question as to whether the gambling system we have created in the legal sense will only correspond to the facts around which we are dealing. And regardless of whether the licensing system is now necessarily better, or worse, the system than this current one should in any case recognise the fact that, within the licensing system, at least this actual competitive system would be recognised and identified, so that licence fees could also be required from its licensees as well as tax payments as the commitment to local legislation in the context in which it operates. In the worst case scenario, we do not have the legislation as such to stand still and imagine that the monopoly would also prevail in the digital market, but in fact market shares will be leaked to non-national operators and our legislation will lag behind the fact that the system will only be changed when market shares have already been lost and the domestic operator will no longer be able to do as it may have done at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u60	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u61	Madam President! There's a legal robbery going on in this country. We have gambling dens all over Finland in various supermarkets and kiosks, and they are even insolently located in areas where you are not doing so well and where you are disadvantaged and deprived people, there are more and more of these Veikkaus gaming machines. These profits that these gaming machines produce when they are played by dependent people are justified by the fact that they go for a good purpose. In other words, they support culture, for example, or support various political organisations, and so on and so on. But this is not a morally sustainable foundation; it is a collection of money from gambling addicts who currently exist in Finland as early as 112,000, according to the survey. A few percent of the users of these machines collect 50 percent of these profits. So they're just gonna pull that money away when they're addicted. No one in this country would accept it if suddenly invented such a state-owned company, a brilliant idea that hey, the state is given a monopoly and it gets someone through an organization or company to start selling heroin. And then we'll help you make this kind of authentication mechanism that if you go to buy heroin from this company, then you need to identify yourself in order to be given only a small amount so that you don't get a lot of that heroin from there. And then this money, which would be taken from people who are addicted, would be spent on cultural organisations, would be given to charity, would be used by political organisations and would be done well. No, this would never go through, but when it comes to gambling, gambling, gaming machines, suddenly this is all right. Madam President! I made this a bill to take these gaming machines away from shops and kiosks, where ordinary families and their children visit and always see them blink, and they easily get hooked when they start to experiment. They are part of closed game halls, not public grocery stores. And what happened when I took this initiative: Mr Gustafsson, the chairman of the Board of Directors of Veikkaus, then sent a letter to the mill and, quite exceptionally, tried to reject the fact that at least any representative would sign the bill that I did to get the machines out of the store. I can't believe it! And later it was revealed that this letter of his, which he sent to all of us in the House, had been written in the communication of Veikkaus. This representative, Mr Gustafsson, receives terrible rewards for being the chairman of the Veikkaus Board of Directors, and then here, on the one hand, in the prestigious Chamber of Parliament, he defends this kind of activity. This money is being misused terribly, and people actually benefit from the plight of other people. For example: The CEO of Veikkaus received 420,000 euros in wages last year and then a bonus of 27000 euros! So the average person’s annual salary was a bonus on top of it, and this money has been drawn from people who are addicted to these gaming machines. Get the machines out of the store! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u62	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u63	Madam President! The reform of the lottery law is, of course, a necessary and very important up-to-date measure. After all, all legislation grows old in life, and it needs to be updated from time to time, as well as this law. It is clear that we do not live in an ideal world, here always some games have been played through the ages. At one time, cards were played, and before that, all other games were made, which time offered opportunities. Gambling has been played, betting has been practiced and many more. So neither this generation nor the next one will be freed from that truth. The only difference is that today the various possibilities of gambling are almost unlimited. Almost anywhere you can bet, almost anywhere you can play cards and even take part in an international online game that is long lasting and can then become a millionaire — very likely to lose everything. So that's the world we can't close, the Internet makes all this possible. That's why it's good that we have a bet on the stock company that it offers people this kind of pleasant, good way to play some kind of game that you want to play. A classic example of what many representatives have raised in this debate is the Saturday lottery. For many people, it is such a weekend event that is in a way part of that life. For over 50 years it has been in force, so let us not go and judge it now. I would also like to see an honest statement taken in this debate that, if this were to end completely, what would happen next. Can we get out of these gambling? I'm sure we wouldn't be able to get away. On the contrary, the state would lose any amount of revenue from there and then it would rob itself of God knows where it would be for an almost unsupervised event. It is exactly the same if we imagine that by catching Alko in Finland, drinking alcohol will stop. We all know that if this were to be done, it would certainly not end. Someone would take over the market right away and, unfortunately, it would certainly be the worst option for the nation. I hope for such a sensible discussion that this harmful gambling will be reduced. The most important thing after all is that in every family with children growing up, they are taught how to use the Internet, how to deal with such gambling, how to handle it sensibly. You cannot escape the world or isolate yourself, but you should learn to live with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u64	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u65	Madam President! Veikkaus seeks to justify his actions with responsibility, by how it seeks to reduce the risk of gambling. Veikkaus always wants to tell us what it has done to prevent gambling harm, while at the same time trying to make as much profit as possible and earn it to the state. The reality is, however, that Mr Veikkaus is not prepared to make one single new reform for gambling addicts unless the company is disciplined and here the parliament decides and puts the political pressure on these things to change. Veikkaus always justifies his own actions with the reforms that have been made, when a moment ago it was required that they should be carried out, even though they were tried to justify them in the case of Veikkaus. Madam President! I predict a few years from now when, hopefully, the machines will be out of business when we still haven't got rid of the disadvantages and will say that we have to do more. Do you know what he's gonna say? It will say: we have done so much for these things, we, for example, removed the machines from the shops — and at the moment, Veikkaus would not want to remove the machines from the shops. We have to take initiatives here. They do not take the initiative. We have to take the initiatives here and demand that the machines be moved away from the grocery stores, but let us see: in a few years' time, Veikkaus will tell us how they have been so responsible that they have taken the machines away from the shops. This is a good thing to keep in mind when we deal with this bet-cracy: The bet always tries to draw as much money from people as it ever gets, and it is our politicians' responsibility that we should ensure that those people who are in a weak position and who are addicted to gambling are not allowed to go dry. And now we are talking about these different boundaries. Now that the government wants to make things easier in such a way that only EUR 2000 a month would have the opportunity to play a game in the air, I asked who could afford such limits. I can say that if I were to play EUR 2000 every month for Veikkaus, then there would be a very small amount of money left for the Member of Parliament. How can this limit be EUR 2000? In other words, we will certainly have to deal with this too, and I hope that now that the government brings in this proposal and it is being discussed in committee, this limit will be changed, because this is certainly not OK. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u66	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u67	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Health Protection Act. The changes would concern the payment of the checks to be carried out. According to the proposal, operators would in future be charged an annual basic fee for the establishments and activities for which operators are obliged to notify or require approval under the Health Protection Act. The amount of the fee would be EUR 150 per year. Small-scale operators for which the basic annual control fee would be manifestly unreasonable in relation to the control and control needs arising from the operation would be excluded from the basic control fee. The aim of the proposal is to improve the cost-correspondence of municipal health protection control and to harmonise environmental health care laws in terms of the cost of supervision. The basic fee for controls in accordance with the proposal would be equivalent to the food law which entered into force on 21 April 21. The purpose of the fee is to ensure the functioning of the municipality in such a way that the municipality has a better chance of effective supervision and provision of the service. The aim is also to promote the freedom of action of municipalities to organise services in such a way as to enable payment and encourage the use of control tools in a more diverse manner than is currently the case. According to the current legislation, the fee for the supervision is linked to the planned control so that a systematic inspection can be invoiced for a cost-of-production charge in accordance with the rate approved by the municipality. In future, the feeability of supervision should be able to control the most effective and appropriate form of supervision. Since fees have been charged, in particular for checks, the role of guidance and advice and other non-payment control instruments as a means of control has not developed sufficiently. In addition to extending the fee of EUR 150 per basic charge for operators, the proposal would continue to charge a fee of EUR 150 per basic charge for carrying out systematic checks on an accrual basis, in line with the rate approved by the municipality. The proposal would also specify which operators would be obliged to notify the establishment or start operations. In addition, the review rule of the law would be updated to respond to the reform of the review of general legislation. Mr President! The annual costs of health protection control are estimated at around EUR 20 million. Some EUR 2 million per year will be charged for the supervision of the Health Protection Act. Control fees currently cover only around 10 to 15 % of the total cost of health protection control. Planned controls account for around 90% of the fees charged. As a result of the proposed changes, it is estimated that the payment revenue from the planned monitoring of health protection will increase by around EUR 3 million to around EUR 5 million. As a result of the basic fee for monitoring, the fee is estimated to cover approximately 50% of the costs of planned health protection controls. The fees paid by operators subject to the basic fee would increase by the basic fee of the supervision, i.e. EUR 150 per year, if the inspection activities of the authorities and the municipal rates remained unchanged. In the future, companies would be charged a total of approximately EUR 1 million per year for basic controls. In the long term, preventive and more diverse control of harm is considered to allow more targeting of inspection activities only at risk. This is expected to reduce the burden of payment for items where no significant problems have been identified. The Act is proposed to enter into force on 1.1.22. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u68	Thank you. — and Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u69	Mr President! This is quite technical, but it is part of a concept or region that we are used to calling environmental health care. That is something we do not discuss so often, because it works fairly well in Finland, but if it fails, there will be discussions, such as various drinking water disasters or diseases that spread to domestic animals. Environmental health care has four basic laws: the Food Act, the Veterinary Act, the Health Protection Act and the Tobacco Act. Now, then, this is really about these payments in this Health Protection Act, which, as the Minister has also pointed out, is quite close to the Health Care Act. I am just paying attention to environmental health as a whole. A year ago I chaired a parliamentary working group to assess the role of environmental health care in the future regional and welfare structure. After all, we came up with a unanimous proposal that environmental health care as a whole should move to welfare areas in 2026, and this is something I wanted to raise here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u70	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u71	Mr President! In short, as far as this legislative reform is concerned, it is only to the extent that when these different charges are imposed on small entrepreneurs, for example, on the basis of inspections, they must be reasonable, rational. One example from the different administrative branches of the Regional State Administrative Agency. I'll just give you a brief example. An ancient boating place was billed by the Regional Administration when a concrete ramp was built on it so that the boat could be lowered from the car, from that trailer, much more smoothly into the water. A negative decision came from there, and that decision cost a lot of money. If I remember correctly, it was about thousands of euros, that bill. However, that boating place had been used by people as a genuine port of this kind for decades, before World War II it had been introduced. Now a huge fall was made for this small shareholder, which in practice completely destroyed its economy. Now that these laws are being reformed and these inspection fees are being imposed on various small entrepreneurs, it is, of course, unreasonable if a health check or similar is carried out on a small business and a few tons of bills are dropped on it. It's practically the end of that company, because it can't handle it when the profits are very low and the bills are huge. For example, there is a café operator who has to work for quite a few years if these inspection fees are very frequent and at this level. I hope that this makes sense, and I hope that the Minister will take this into account, because paying small entrepreneurs such a gigantic administration for the low incomes they receive from their business is, indeed, disproportionate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u72	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u76	Like this. — And Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u77	Mr President! Perhaps it is a good idea to start with this question by Mr Essayah. The starting point is, of course, that the law guarantees equality. Certainly, in the perspective of who organises is not as relevant as the fact that they are equally similar in the whole of Finland. We have a break-up in these matters, and I'm sure you can see from the customer fee law that municipalities also have quite big differences in what type of level these payments will then cover. In fact, the problem with this whole issue is that we really do have a reality in terms of what environmental protection controls cost in relation to what charges are to be levied. So, in my own speech, I tried to go through the situation where the supervisory fees cover between 10% and 15% of the implementation. In practice, it can be thought that if we spend 20 million on this, then EUR 2 million will come with these payments. In that regard, it is certainly a matter of time before we must also have a reasonable level of burden on the municipalities, but at the same time it is essential to assess how much this burden would put on the operators in the sector. The starting point is that this basic levy, EUR 150, should now be available to all operators, but the draft law states that the basic fee for controls, i.e. outside this EUR 150, would be to exclude small-scale operators for whom the basic annual control fee would be manifestly unreasonable in relation to the control and control needs arising from the operation — and this is also the wish of the representative, Mr Hoskonen. Mr Lindén spoke of the great future of environmental protection as the starting point for which it is. I would say that, during this pandemic, we have not even been able to wake up to the importance of our adequate resources for environmental protection and streamlining this activity to the challenges of the future, and that content work is certainly needed here too. And what the structural future is, that is what the parliamentary working group has already set out. In all of this, we also have to ask ourselves whether there is, however, such an economy that will then have an impact on this. These challenges in today's environmental protection tasks are very diverse, and we must also ask, yes, what is today's environmental protection, what types of tasks, for example, will be covered by social welfare and health care, and which of these tasks will then, for example, be carried out in the administrative sector of other ministries. From the point of view of animal welfare, for example, the task area is already divided between the various ministries, so that these are the issues that certainly need to be discussed, as well as how the fight against the pandemic takes account of the fact that there are also relatively high risks in the area of environmental protection that we should be able to prepare for. These are certainly the big questions of the future in terms of structures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u78	Thank you. — Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u79	Mr President! I have had to take the floor on this subject of environmental protection control, and I would like to express my concern at the fact that many times it may be that we think that this is a good thing, that we should do enough of this control and other things and tighten up these things, but in my own field I have noticed to an infinite extent that too much control and the things that have been made too difficult do a lot of damage to this case, because there will be entrepreneurs who do not take these measures and do not make these announcements. I can tell you that the waste register, for example, is a good example. Every company in the waste register pays for it. Today, no one has been able to tell me what is being done with that waste register — probably 15 years of that waste register — at least not the people who have been put in contact with it in these cases when those letters and payment notes are sent there. The problem is, to a large extent, that in many areas there is a vague limit to whether, for example, you need an environmental permit or something like that, and now there will be a lot of the problem of not applying for those environmental permits because it will then be a step in the way that there will be extremely tough demands on these matters and that there will not necessarily be a whole or flexibility in environmental control. Quite often, then, it is easier to be with small entrepreneurs of this kind rather than with bigger entrepreneurs who then seem to have the skills to do so, even though this is not easily the case in their truth. It's just that it's often been seen that everything has to be put on paper nicely. Today I feel like you can't even apply for a job if you don't have a CV, no matter how well you know how to do it. The same is true in these all-looking licensing processes, to make those permit applications look extremely good and fine and to have a good title, who has written those papers below, which, however, confuses this whole thing. I hope we don't go... The environment does not really like the fact that those small entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs in the SME sector are being eradicated from the country, those who are actually unable to face this challenge if they become too many challenges to run its business. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u80	Thank you. — and Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u81	Mr President! This is a good thing. I did not ask for the floor because I would like to prolong this debate, but this debate has revealed the same thing that often happens when we discuss these issues, which means that we have a bit of a problem with the concepts. We have environmental protection, environmental health care and then we have building supervision, for example. Well, it is because many municipalities, for example, have made administrative structures in which they have at present placed these different issues under the same administrative body and board or agency. But environmental health care is about environmental risks to human health. They can be of animal origin, they can be of radiation origin, they can be of a wide variety. In terms of environmental protection, the starting point is that we are protecting the environment. It's the absolute value of protecting the environment. Of course, these have a close impact on each other. But I wanted to bring this up. To Minister Kiuru, I would like to mention as a positive example that, when I myself have worked in many health care organisations in the past decades, the most clear administrative structure, which was in any one of them, was in the health care of the Minister's hometown, the city of Pori, which was divided into five sections. There was a hospital department that was responsible for the city hospital, there was a public health department that was responsible for health centre activities, there was a dental department and then there was an environmental health department. Each of these was led by the head of the department by the person concerned, who had a specific knowledge of its substance, and then, of course, the entire agency had an agency manager separately. And from these ages, for example, I am largely familiar with environmental health care, which I learned to appreciate very much when I saw how important it is, after all, for the health of the community and the population.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u82	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u83	Mr President! The Government has submitted a bill to the Parliament to amend the Tobacco Act. The proposal will contribute to the implementation of the Government Programme to reduce addictions and pursue determined efforts to reduce smoking. According to Article 1 of the Act on Tobacco, the objective of the Act is to stop the use of tobacco products and other nicotine-containing products containing toxic substances and which are addictive to humans. So, how do we achieve this goal? One of the most important means is legislation and, for example, the updating of the tobacco law in question. The drafting of the bill has been supported by the proposals put forward in its report on the development of tobacco and nicotine policy by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 2018, i.e. during the previous Government term. The new working group is due to start in 22, and the working group should now examine whether the measures proposed in the proposal have been sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Tobacco Act. The main proposal of the proposal is to harmonise retail packaging of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and refill containers: in other words, they should not be packaging of similar products with a distinctive character or appearance and should not encourage the sale of products. In addition to packaging, the appearance of cigarettes, for example, would also be harmonised. According to international studies, the harmonisation of packaging will reduce the attractiveness of the product and, in particular, the aim of the proposals is to prevent young people from starting using the products covered by the Tobacco Act. It can be said that harmonisation is already mainstreamed in world tobacco policy, as such regulation is already in force in more than 20 countries. Under the current Tobacco Act, consumers may not be sold or otherwise disposed of a cigarette or wrapping tobacco with a characteristic aroma or taste, such as mentol, chocolate or vanilla. In future, the presentation would also prohibit products intended to produce a characteristic aroma or taste of a tobacco product. The proposal would further expand smoke-free environments, as smoking would be banned in playgrounds and public beaches. These outdoor spaces are used, for example, by children and young people, in particular to protect them from passive smoking, model smoking learning and toxic cigarette butts. A smoking ban on public bathing areas is also important to protect water bodies. Mr President! The proposal also proposes that Valvira levy an annual control fee on manufacturers and importers of products covered by the Tobacco Act. The regulation would apply to products covered by the Tobacco Act whose sales volumes must be notified to Valvira and the supervisory fee would be determined on the basis of the sales volumes of the products. The change would ensure adequate control and control management resources. Furthermore, the proposal would prohibit the display of tobacco equipment intended to heat tobacco products. The proposed law is intended to enter into force from the beginning of 22, but it contains several transitional provisions. Regulation on the harmonisation of packaging would enter into force within a sufficient period from the beginning of 23 C.E. In Finland, both adults and young people have seen a marked decrease in smoking. This is good news. For example, according to a recent school health survey, the use of tobacco products has decreased further at all levels of school. Since the turn of the millennium, young people’s smoking has halved and adults’ smoking has decreased by one third. Despite positive developments, we are still facing a public health problem and work on reducing smoking must continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u84	Thank you. — Mr Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u85	Mr President! Finland’s tobacco legislation has produced results when the results are measured by the number of smokers. Smoking has clearly decreased over the decades. When I asked one of the tobacco business agents how many of their company’s employees smoked, the answer was that hardly anyone did. Some of us still remember the time when the workplaces were allowed to smoke indoors. The workrooms could have been like smoke ovens when the door was opened. The resulting development was that tobacco rooms appeared in the workplace. Next, smokers were evicted and gradually invisible. Smoking has become an almost disappearing habit of behavior, and that is a good thing. Those who have managed to stop will surely count it among the best achievements of their lives. Too many still suffer from the effects of smoking, and the most serious forms lead to painful death. No one regrets not having started smoking, but many smokers regret starting. This government proposal implements the Government Programme of Prime Minister Marin, which aims to reduce addictions and continues to work decisively to reduce smoking. The preparation has been supported by proposals of a supranational nature, which were presented in its report on the development of tobacco and nicotine policy by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 2018. One of the most significant changes to the current state of the proposal would be the introduction in Finland of a so-called plain packaging, i.e. harmonisation of retail packaging of tobacco products and similar products. In practice, this change would mean that retail packages of tobacco products, e-cigarettes and refill containers should not differ in terms of labelling or other appearance from those of other similar products. Among other things, brand names and logos would be removed from tobacco packs. In addition, the appearance of cigarette filling tanks and nicotine liquid would be harmonised by law. The technical details of the presentation of packaging and products would be laid down in a Regulation. The amendments aim to reduce the attractiveness of the products covered by the Tobacco Act and their retail packaging and to prevent the use of packaging in marketing. The specific objective is to make sure that young people do not start using tobacco products or similar products. Historically, there are advertising pictures of certain tobacco companies riding into the evening sun by Western men or fine - face model beauty who created images of smoking as a desirable and attractive feature. I welcome the basic idea of the government's proposal, but will there then be a mismatch between other things that are harmful to the health of a person? A fair follow-up to this kind of legislation would be that alcohol-containing products would also be packed in uniform packaging in the future. I'm predicting a big scream at that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u86	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u92	Thank you. — Ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u93	Ärade talman, Mr President! Förslaget om ändring av tobakslagen är en del av regeringsprogrammet om att minska beroendet av rusmedel i vårt land. Glädjande nog har ju tobaksrökningen minskat markant under de 40 Senaste åren, och det är är naturligtvis en valddigt bra sak med tanke på till exempel de sjukdomar som tobaksrökningen förorsakar, men det finns ändå en allt större skillnad befolkningsgrupper emellan då det gäller tobaksrökningen. Forskningen visar att tobaksrökning bland you give orsakar mer älsoproblem hos lågt utbildade ögt utbildade, och det är oroveckande att älsoproblemen concentreras endast till vivi grupper. Enligt förslaget ska förpackningar förenhetligas och en övervakningsavgift för importörer införas. Det ska även bli förbjudet att röka vid offentliga lekplatser och simstränder, och det är är en valddigt bra sak, vilket också colleague of här nämnde för en stund sedan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I came to this toilet because I'm not sure I can open that microphone. Minister, it is very good that such a change in the tobacco law has been brought here to Parliament. There are changes here that have long been needed. The most important of these are these non-identifiable tobacco boxes, the symbols of which, for example, Mr Mattila's own speech very well opened up. The fact that these are made unrecognizable, I understand, effectively prevents young people from turning a brand of tobacco into a very fashionable product, and that is why young people feel obliged to try it. It is also a good idea to ban smoking in playgrounds. Of course, all reasonable people will refrain from smoking even today next to the children’s games, but it is good that this is now banned, so there will be no unnecessary quarrels with those sandboxes. One important thing is missing and it is to facilitate the ban on balcony smoking. This was put forward, among other things, by this working group on tobacco policy and, as the explanatory statement of the government's proposal shows, this has also been presented in the consultation. This would be important. After all, smoking can now be banned in the community of residence — that is, on the balcony of the inhabitants, now I am not talking about common balconies — but this ban has been made extremely bureaucratic and difficult, and it is also reflected in how few of these bans have been imposed. Today, you must first provide information about this kind of ban coming up at the general meeting for all residents and all owners. After that, of course, a decision must be made at the general meeting, but then an application must be submitted to the municipality for the imposition of such a ban. This application to the municipality must be accompanied by various layouts and, apparently, minutes and other annexes, and this decision must be paid to the municipality. Then, of course, the municipality will ask for further clarifications and then have to supply them and pay for more. This is an absurd bureaucratic procedure. This procedure should definitely be simplified so that at the general meeting of the community of residence it can be decided that our company does not smoke in balconies. This is about a comparison of interests like this: Is it more important for the smoker to smoke in it on his balcony, or is it more important that a neighbor’s balcony dweller can put his child to sleep, his baby on the balcony, enjoy his morning coffee on the balcony without having to suffer from his neighbor’s smoking? I think it is quite clear that we must side with those who do not want this tobacco smoke to suffer. It has been very long-winded, though, when it comes to this matter in the Government, and I do not blame the government that sits down. As shown in the explanatory statement of the Board of Directors' proposal, the Ministry of Justice has now made the reform of the Housing Company Act into some kind of memorandum of understanding and it is now being discussed and this matter is being discussed in this context. Well, this isn't just about housing companies, it's usually about housing communities. Of course, the exception would be housing communities where one partner and his balcony are in their own house and so no one would be disturbed by his smoking. I now appeal to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to see that there are some authoritative members of the committee present: change the government's proposal so that in this context it is easier to ban balcony smoking in residential communities, so that the decision taken by the majority of the general meeting is sufficient. If we wait for these gentlemen to be busy, they will be very slow in this matter. We've been talking about this for years. In other words, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: amend the Tobacco Act or legislation in general so that the majority decision of the general meeting can ban smoking in its community balconies. Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to taxation. The government is considerably increasing the tobacco tax, and that is a good thing, but there is still room. I'd be willing to double the tobacco tax myself. Of course, it did not double its revenue, which I think is already EUR 1.1 billion a year – Helsingin Sanomat will check. But even if the proceeds are not doubled by doubling the tobacco tax, I am firmly convinced that the strict tightening of the tobacco tax is the best way to prevent young people from starting smoking. When you're an adult, you don't usually start. You start when you're young and you don't let go when you're an adult. If there is a shock rise in the tobacco tax, fewer young people will start, and that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u95	Thank you. — Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u96	Mr President! Indeed, today I was in the hall practicing this microphone, and it finally seemed to be working out. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Well-being. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u100	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u101	Mr President! Indeed, today is perhaps such a ‘forbidden’ day. At first we had playing and now we had a cigarette, but I didn't see alcohol on the list yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u104	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u105	Mr President! It is extremely good that tobacco smoking has decreased, and I am more than happy about it. Even in between for up to seven years I was not smoking, and I am really glad that half of my children have never smoked. But if we are honest, with such legal proposals we do make ourselves ridiculous among the people. The fact that tobacco advertising has stopped in the past and education has grown absurdly and so forth has been of great significance, but, for example, the hiding things that can't be influenced by advertising, for example, have already been on a level that has had little or nothing to do with it. And what really surprises me about this whole thing is, so to speak, this taste thing and so on. If there is anyone who smoked, then you know the way that after the menthol tobacco there came to the bakery racks first the products from where they get the flavors there, and the other side is that the essences are going to end up endlessly, and this is even going to happen — as in the previous time, when we went to the menthol tobacco, so many and many of my friends went to the sacks — and I do not think that it is in any way a good trend that because of the taste that is being made artificially there, people start to go into the smokers, so to speak. To be honest, however, they are by no means a better trend. Then here's the other thing, which was when the electric cigarettes came into the market. For myself, who has been incinerated since he was practically 15 years of age and has not been in the middle of seven years, it was an extremely good idea to see that I too have an infinite number of people in the circle of friends who have left out their tobacco and are currently using electric tobacco. Now, however, this provision makes this virtually as dangerous and does not want to be supported by this electronic tobacco system. I have not seen the statistics on how many young people today have started with electric tobacco, that there is any gate theory here at all. I must say that, personally, I have never come across one of those things that started smoking electric cigarettes and then jumped into normal tobacco. So I do not think that there should be any danger here either, unless there are some statistics that we have not seen in this respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u106	Thank you. — and Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u107	All right, here's how it worked. Thank you, Mr President. Representative With the scream, I quite agree that if any stimulant in the world had been allowed to fail, then surely that cigarette would have been. Yes, its health risks are considerable. And I am somewhat opposed to Mr Laakso's specific opinion on these different spices. Yes, for their part, they are increasing the attractiveness of smoking. And the amount of electric tobacco, although it is not the subject of this law, is that we do not yet have enough evidence of the long-term effects of electric tobacco and, in the sense of what has been tried to market, that it is somehow less dangerous than ordinary tobacco, there is no scientific justification. This bill is not about pricing, but perhaps rather about this so-called educational occasion. In view of the fact that we had those tobacco products hanging around the bags for years, one might say, in the place where every shopkeeper certainly got them into his eyes, it is of course important that they are now out of sight, and then, on the other hand, the removal of this visual expression and, hopefully, these different images of disease make them think little about who are still smoking. Mr Zyskowicz has made a good point here about the problem of housing companies. It is very difficult to achieve these bans on balcony smoking, because it requires not only unanimity in general meetings but also an application to the municipalities, which means that this will become a whole range of problems and bureaucracy. It is good that this ban on sandboxes is now here, because it is also a very similar signal for these children who are playing there on the sandbox when and if the parents around it are smoking. Mr President! One more thing about tobacco to the contrary. I remember that in the past years there was an American study that found that if a young person could keep away from smoking all his youth, so that he would not go off smoking tobacco in his teens, it is highly unlikely that he would start using drugs. So, in a way, the most effective way to prevent a young person from taking part in drug trials is to keep him away from smoking, that is, not to start smoking. Of course, someone here now says that, well, this is one of these gate theories, but on the other hand, when you know how most of their drug experiments start, it does seem quite valid and logical. In that sense, too, tobacco is one of these stimulants.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u108	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the 30 minutes reserved for this point have been filled, but since the Minister asked for a reply and wanted to speak for four more minutes and had to leave for a while, let us continue to do so on the list of speakers. — — — — Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u109	Mr President! The amendment to the Tobacco Act is justified, smoking is very harmful to health. In addition to the smoker, nearby people suffer from smoke, especially children. It is necessary to ban smoking on beaches and playgrounds. It is also good that the products are out of sight. The smoke-free environment is expanding. No one has regretted not having started smoking. On the other hand, many regret continuing smoking. The likelihood that disease will strike at some point is high. It's a lot of money, too. At the time, I was the headmaster of a boarding school when the tightening of the Tobacco Act came into force years ago in the middle of the academic year. It was a challenging start. However, over the years, I was able to observe a significant decrease in smoking among young people. Finland has made systematic progress towards non-smoking. A very important factor in the reduction of smoking has been the change in its image. When I was a kid, I remember how common smoking was. Cigarettes were burned almost anywhere. In the past, smoking among young people was acceptable and cool. Now this is no longer the case. There's no smoke. The education of the people, the education of attitudes, and stricter laws have gradually produced good fruitage. Expand the idea of sobriety to other addictions. Mr President! We should reduce all kinds of negative dependence among our people. The first thing we talked about was helping gambling addicts. I hope that the next step would be to reduce alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u112	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u113	Mr President! Young, new generations smoke tobacco much less than our generations smoke, the same applies to alcohol. It has been noted that the bans and the education have had little effect here, but that these things are not cool, cool, but rather embarrassing, and that is what actually works. False education and false bans may even do the opposite in this matter. Smoking has health effects for both smokers and bystanders, and, of course, bystanders in particular must always be protected, but there are also fundamental rights issues involved. Prohibitions must be weighed in such a way that they are accurate, proportionate and acceptable. For example, it is clear to us in Kuusjärvi, Vantaa, that smoking must be banned in a massively tight mass of people, and so it has always been banned or, at least, for a very long time. But should it be prohibited by law in all such situations where you are near a beach where you can swim? What is the precision and what is the place where the law should be used and where common sense and local rules and regulations should be used? It is good to consider these questions, that unnecessary legislation does not regulate matters that are worth regulating elsewhere. But I welcome the protection of bystanders in particular, and I do not believe that smokers themselves are in need of patronisation, but I certainly welcome the fact that in society in general, smoking is less acceptable than it has been in the past. — Now the Minister will be here. I'll end here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u114	Let us take Mr Peltokangas and then give the Minister the opportunity to comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Excellent conversation. Of course, I myself am in favour of non-smoking, which is better for health. However, I would like to draw attention to a few points in a good debate. This shows the attractiveness of these packages. However, I would like to remind Members that today they are certainly no longer attractive. They describe the cancer problems of all the world with very radical images, people on a heart machine. They don't have Westerners on their heads any more than we've heard here. I would hope that the representatives will at least take a careful look at the subject when they are discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u118	Like this. - And now Minister Kiuru, please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u119	Mr President! I will begin with this question of Peltokangas: what is and what is not appropriate. We've had to think about this. Indeed, this working group made a number of proposals, and these proposals are now the basis for our being able to bring this proposal here. I found the work of that working group groundbreaking and good proposals were made. Well, for example, would it have been worth having a smoking ban on a taxi pole? Would it have been worth taking a ban on public transport stops? The working group presented this, but from the point of view of the relevance of the law, it becomes difficult to determine how we define a taxi pole. So what is the physical condition in which the ban is on, and where does it end? This is a valid question, and I am sure that Parliament will have to draw the line on the way in which these prohibition areas are defined. And this is a bigger question when we consider such individual legislation, that what we can bring into the law and how precisely we can do these things. I thought it was a good idea if you were thinking about public transport stops or taxi poles. Yes, people should have the right to smoke, but how do they limit these from a practical point of view? That'll be the next problem. I will then also draw attention to Mr Zyskowicz's reflection in that toilet. I think this is a big and important point of view that when we look at these proposals, are these enough? Well, these aren't yet. After all, the working group made a few proposals which are of considerable economic importance, and I would like to highlight a few of them. When we look at the national economy and its effects on health, it is often thought that health and the economy would not go hand in hand, but in fact they will. The bigger we are able to make smart health policy decisions that protect and care about people's health, it does have a big economic significance. If we are thinking about health policy, then our starting point should be in the whole welfare policy, that instead of immediately considering how we act at the individual level, then the big trend is to think at the social level about what are the impressive actions that are not individual-dependent. And from the point of view of smoking, this is the big carrying force. How do we ensure that children and young people do not learn the pattern of smoking? Tax solutions are certainly one way. A young person cannot afford to smoke. Of course, what effect it has on those Finns who already smoke is important — and how its effects are calculated in tax policy. But the starting point is that we should be able to discuss in society these big economic issues, which concern the whole nation. And here is the question of whether, for example, an increase in the age limit from 18 to 20 could be considered. It was one of the proposals of the tobacco group. These are the kind of big pictures we need to think about. From the point of view of attractiveness, Mr Zyskowicz also considered this aspect of the Housing Company Act that it was sufficient. Quite rightly, the group proposed amending the Housing Company Act so that a ban on smoking in balconies or indoors controlled by residents could be decided by majority decision of the housing company. I personally am in favour of this. However, the challenge lies in the fact that this working group proposal was also in the consultation process and the Ministry of Justice sent an assessment report to the opinions in October 2020 assessing the need for amendments to the existing Housing Share Company Act. And in the Ministry of Justice's evaluation report, it was suggested that instead of the proposal of this working party, which I have just said out loud, the drafting of the law should take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u120	Here, thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the order of business have been closed. Apologies to those representatives who are waiting for the other subjects of the day. We dealt with this point a little longer because the previous one went faster. - Now, forwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u121	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u122	Madam President! There has been a debate here today on a number of addictive issues, and now we have tobacco and the amendments to the legislation on tobacco. All these government proposals are important in this respect. There was a little debate here earlier, Mr President, in which some have little underestimated whether these restrictive measures, which have now been designed, can genuinely contribute to the reduction of smoking. It can be said that all the ways that have been done in the last decades have actually led to a reduction in smoking. I already belong to an age group that has lived in its university phase in the situation of smoking in lecture halls and also in seminar work. In the 1970s, this was the case. In cinemas smoking, public transportation, buses, there were smoking facilities in the back, which are currently estimated at something that is extremely distant and distant, but then it was real, reality. That is, yes, and also what has been done internationally. This is also related to my experience of studying in England, i.e. in Finland at that time, in the 1970s, the university no longer smoked in a similar way, but there was this situation in England. There is no longer that situation in Britain, but there too has clearly been progress in this area, as has been the case in the world in general. In other words, all of these measures, which in one way or another make smoking a less meaningful part of our culture of habit, including advertising restrictions, are rewarding and important in order to get rid of this fiend. As many doctors have noted, if some stimulant had not been invented in the world, it is tobacco. Its health burdens are so high that it has been quite problematic from a public health point of view. It's huge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u123	Congressman Mäenpää's gone. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u124	Madam President! It is good that the tobacco law is being amended and persistently and persistently doing the work to reduce smoking. I remember those times, as Mr Kiljunen well described in his own speech, when smoking really got anywhere. I remember in high school when the bus used to travel long distances to school, that in the back seat tobacco was uninhibited and the smell spread everywhere. Perhaps the smell of tobacco was so repulsive, then because I have never, ever, smoked, so that it remained in the mind of a young man, just as a little boy. It is good that the harmful effects of smoking are known. They're all known. I don't think anyone can say that they didn't know if a person's illness that's caused by a cigarette gets later. Here, too, that educational work done by families and homes and schools would now be the most important thing — and it is, I am sure, the most important thing. In other words, at home parents need to teach children the harm of smoking, and then the most important thing is to act as an example. If you demand good behavior from young people and you behave improperly, then that credibility is gone at that moment. The same is true for tobacco: if parents do not smoke, it is also highly likely that children will not become smokers. This is why we make this small change, which transforms these packages, the cigarette packs, into pieces that look like this: the ads will disappear, and that's where the colorful pictures will disappear. That's all right, I think it's something we can achieve. But I still stand in the way of enlightenment and volunteering, because real knowledge is the only thing that can move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u125	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. It will also be reserved about 30 minutes for the referral debate and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases will be followed. — Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u126	Ärade Herr Talman! Det rai lagförslaget handlar om att underlätta för tidningsprenumationer som kommer från fasta Finland eller övriga EU-länder till Åland. Åland är inte en del av EU:s mervärdesskatteområde inom tullunionen. Det betyder att alla försändelser till Åland behöver förtullas på samma sätt som till eller från ett tredje land. Detta är byråkratiskt men nödvändigt för att i practiceken skerstalla att Åland har communicationer till och från fasta Finland och Sverige. Vi har dock alla ett ansvar i samhället att säkerstä att den ox byråkratin kan minimeras så mycket som vöjligt. Här har samhället inte lyckats anu. Tvärtom har det blivit jobbigare och jobbigare i praktiken, aven om just det ox lagförslaget är ett litet steg i rätt riktning och att i lag slå fast den praxis som redan nu börjat användas av Tullen. EU beslöt att försäljning av taxfreevaror i internationalell trafik inte tillåts inom EU:s gränser. För Ålands del hade det betutt att ferretrafiken inte skulle ha kunnat upprätthållas på den nivå som man haft. Trafiken över Kvarken är ett bra exempel på det. Den är på en mycket lägre nivå i dag än före EU-medlemskapet, aven om man just byggt ett now fartyg för en rutt. Därför förhandlades det fram ett undantag för Åland så att taxfreeförsäljningen skulle kunna fortsätta och i practiceken subventionera trafiken och kostnaden för att transportera både människor och varor till och från Åland. Utan undantaget skulle dagens trafik inte kunna existera. Den skulle då behöva direkta subventioner som till exempel till svenska Gotland, som varje år subventioneras med 500 milioner chronor av svenska staten. Trots det är biljettpriserna till Gotland högre n till Åland. I do not cheap milard cronor skulle dock inte räcka för att subventionera trafiken till Åland på ett tillredsställande stätt effectsom man är beronde av communicationer både österut och västerut från Ålands siida. Det skulle inte Heller äcka för att subventionera den trafik som finns i dag, så utan katteundantaget skulle trafiken till och från Åland sannolikt se ut som den gjorde under den värsta tiden under pandemic, där några fårutter upprättålls via direkra statliga stöd, först av Försörjningsberedskapcentralen och sedan av öjligheten att upphandla trafik som kommunikationsverket nupprätthåller och som i riksdagen finansierats via TVå tillaggsbudgetar. Det är dock nu frågan om en åtgärd på grund av pandemin, och hur något bestående skulle kunna finansieras i stanellet är högst osäkert, förutom att det i så fall skulle se annorlunda ut än man i dag på Åland är van med. Av den anledningen behövs katteundantaget fortsatt effectsom det är basen för Ålands communicationer till fast Finland och Sverige, och utan communicationer överlever inget öppet samhä. Därför är frågan så viktig och därför har exempelvis Kanariöarna och tyska Helgoland moss system. Irade the Talman! Priset för katteundantaget märks i ökad byråkrati för alla försändelser av varvar till och från Åland, i synnerhet sedan bagatellumsen avskafffades genom ett EU-beslut. Det var det besluet som gjorde att tidningar och tidskrifter inte längre kunge skickas till och från Åland utan att förtullas. En strikt tolkning av behovet av förtullningen hade inneburit att varje nummer av Hufvudstadsbladet, varje nummer av Helsingin Sanomat och varje nummer av Kalle Anka skulle ha behövt förtullas in separat till Åland från fasta Finland. Det skulle reserve fullstandigt bisarrt och dessutom reserve i strid med tidigare utlåtanden av grundlagsutskottet att man måste säkerstalla att ålänningar har till till tidningar på samma sätt som övriga finländare. Av den anledningen har Tullen arbetat fram en praxis som gör att man bara behöver göra en förtulling per prenumation en gång per år. Det gör bördan mera haterbar. Det är också det som nu ändras i den rai lagen så att den praxisen får lagstöd. Det är ändå frågan om ökad byråkrati, i synnerhet för tidningar som kommer sallan. Dossutom är Åland en liten tidningsmarknad och behovet av särlösningar kan skrämma tidningshusen. Av den anledningen skulle ett bättre alternativ reserve att göra tidningar och tidskrifter till Åland helt mumsfria. Det skulle skerstä att Åland har tillgång till alla tidningar. Ettersom transportkostnaderna till Åland är högre än till många andra delar av landet skulle morsfrihten inte Heller skapa någon fördel för Åland i practicekken i förhållande till andra. Samma priser skulle sannolikt i practicen ändå betalas för tidningar som importerades från fasta Finland. Det skulle också ha liten fiskal betydelse för statens finanser. Lagstiftningen skulle tuöjliggöra ett sådant rai arrangemang, och det är något som jag önskar att finansutskottet skulle kunna titta på. Det skulle också minska på byråkratin för Tullen då volymerna är små.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u127	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 19/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mrs Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u128	Madam President! Since Mr Kymäläinen, the President-in-Office of the Committee on Transport and Communications, was unable to attend this meeting, as Vice-President, I shall briefly present the report of this committee. Madam President! The government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on the interoperability of electronic toll systems and, at the same time, to repeal the existing law of the same name. The new law is intended to enter into force in the autumn of 2021, which is this year. This is therefore a government proposal HE 115/2021, i.e. a government proposal to Parliament for a law on the interoperability of electronic toll systems. In its report, the committee considers the proposal to be appropriate and to be supported. It is very important to bear in mind that there is now a European electronic toll service and the interoperability of electronic toll systems, but not their introduction. The possible introduction will then be decided separately. In July 2017 at the time of the last Parliament, in the context of the revision of the Eurovignette Directive and the EETS Directive, i.e. the Government's letter U38/2017 vp Transport and Communications Committee has issued a statement on a time-based road user charge, i.e. vignette and also so-called professional diesel. The committee then stated that the introduction of a vignette which is essential to the competitiveness of heavy goods transport is extremely important and urgent. The committee also considered it important that the Government should prepare the legislation aimed at the use of the vignette as soon as possible. Mr President! In this context, the Committee draws attention to the fact that the preparation of the introduction of the vignette levy is a matter for the Ministry of Finance and not for the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Mr President! In this speech, I would also like to point out that the Committee on Transport and Communications still considers the above-mentioned position to be timely, i.e. vignette and also professional diesel. Mr President! The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament adopt, without amendment, the bill contained in the Government proposal HE 115/2021 from these Parliaments. However, the report contains one objection with regard to the rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u129	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 12/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Ojala-Niemelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u130	Madam President! A report has been produced in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Public Appreciation. The main content of the proposal is that provisions on the right of authorities dealing with title issues to receive personal data are included in the law to assess the integrity of the proposed title. In practice, therefore, it is a question of information on criminal records and fines, as well as information on suspected offences. At present, access to information is based on regulation-level regulation and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supports the adoption of a law and proposes that the regulation be partially amended. Finally, the committee draws attention to the fact that the whole of the legislation on public valuation should be examined in the light of what is laid down in the law and in the regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes changes, first of all that the right to information be limited to the necessary information according to its established practice. In addition, the committee proposes that the right to information be excluded from traffic error charges and that the right to information should not lie with the Office of the President of the Republic, which has not been entrusted with the preparation of title matters on a regulatory basis. As a final change, the committee proposes that the law provides for the consent of the person proposed to receive the title to receive personal data. Today, this regulation is contained in the Regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u131	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 13/2021 vp. The content of the proposal for a decision is now decided. — General discussion. Congressman Ojala-Niemel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u132	Madam President! A report has been prepared by the Constitutional Committee on a proposal from the Council of Presidents to amend Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The amendment concerns the organisation of distance hearings by committees and the regulation of the Rules of Procedure on the recording of absenteeism. The committee proposes that the Council of Presidents' proposal be adopted subject to minor amendments and that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure come into force on Monday, 11 October next week. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already stated that the requirement for Parliament to act in a quantitative manner justifies the need for regulation. According to the committee, Parliament's operating methods cannot, in principle, be based solely on agreements or informal practices between parliamentary groups rather than on the constitution, the Rules of Procedure or the general instructions of the committees issued by the Parliamentary Council of Presidents. It is therefore justified that distance consultation should be provided for in the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses, as the proposal of the Council of Presidents states, that the committees will continue to consult experts at meetings in the near future. When considering the question of distance, the reasons for the proposal would allow for consideration, for example, of the work situation of the committee and the quality of the issues under discussion. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the importance of the thoroughness and interaction of expert consultations, particularly when dealing with matters considered to be legally complex or controversial. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the decision on the organisation of a distance consultation. According to the general provisions, the chairman of the committee is invited to a committee meeting. However, the committee stresses the importance of the President taking into account what might have been discussed in the committee about the way in which the consultation was organised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u133	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u134	Mr President! Parliament has managed to cope very well with the corona period and we have been able to reform our work so that, even in a crisis situation, we have been able to ensure that things are well-managed and that decisions are taken. We have learned a lot, and what we learn will be useful if — and probably when — we face new crises in the future. President! Society will no longer return to the time before the corona. Many things have changed permanently, and that is why it is good that we are able to maintain some of the good practices we are now learning in Parliament. The committees are different and it is therefore good that the committees can now decide to hold expert consultations at a distance, so to speak, if they consider it to be reasonable for them to act. The environment will also thank you if travelling can be reduced. It is often quite absurd to invite experts hundreds of kilometres away to the committee's hearing. The problem of remote meetings has been described as, for example, the lack of interaction and difficulty. I myself think that this is also a matter of getting used to and learning. Remote meeting practices can be developed, and I believe technology will also facilitate interaction at remote meetings in the future. Last week, the Committee on the Future discussed this issue as a matter of our own, and we decided to launch experiments to develop different methods of distance meeting and working methods. President! Of course, it is important that we now have a face-to-face meeting and discussion, but I would also like to see further development and reform of Parliament's working methods. Here I could ask the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: with what conditions and how can we proceed on these issues of developing working methods? Did the committee come up with alternative solutions? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u135	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u136	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Den arbetsordningsförändringen är en väkommen och bra sak, tycker jag, för precis som det har framkommit är det stor skillnad mellan utskotten, på sättet vi jobbar. Själv är jag nu i kulturutskottet och i milöutskottet, och factum är att de örandena på distans fungerar väldigt bra till exempel på tisdagar och på fredagar, så att man har speciella dagar som man har beslutat om, och det är en väldigt bra sak, och att man fokuserar de ärendena till onsdag och torsdag. Det är faktiskt också ur ett fabillionerspektiv wasteviktigt och bra, för vi är många i det är huset som har små barn. Det auri gör alltså för min egen del att jag till exempel i dag kunde föra barnen till daghemmet i stället för att jag skulle ha stigit upp klcka cheap fem och tags morgontåget och inte sett barnen. Nu har jag variants med på distans i stället den rauh dagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u137	Madam President! Of course, the starting point is that Parliament's decision-making must be a decision-making process which meets and takes place in the Parliament, but this proposal from the President-in-Office was that distance consultations should be limited to these expert consultations. It was therefore considered in committee that this regulation does not constitute an essential exception to the normal way of dealing with matters in committee and does not affect these decision-making procedures. These consultations have also been found to work during the corona period and yet it was hoped that this would not become the norm. It saw that the effect could be on the thoroughness and interaction of this case, but then such routine nature-like things could be dealt with for example once or twice a week when distance hearings hit. Personally, as a mother from the province, from Rovaniemi — it is 900 kilometres home, weeks spent here — I would strongly urge that this house also consider developing working methods in the longer term. I warmly supported Mr Mati's proposal, where the weeks had been divided into plenary weeks, committee weeks and regional weeks, and I would certainly like to see these proposals dug up from naphthalene and see if there is any further development for further work in these.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u138	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u139	Thank you, Mr President. We're having a good conversation here. I think that the proposal is very good for us to consider together, and that is the way in which it is going. Of course, I am in favour of that decision-making in person, because it is the best way to achieve rapid and reactive communication. Ledamot Ollikainen also brought a very good perspective to this debate. Families and the future are important to us, and when we make sure that Parliament’s work remains effective, I personally warmly welcome this debate as well. In principle, I am in favour of this proposal and we will then consider together where it will end up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u140	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u141	Mr President! This has now been the subject of some discussion of the observations raised by this interest rate on what this new reality, the new normality, is. Personally, I have been very sensitive to the fact that we are moving on to this teleworking, but I have always supported this close-up work on the meeting, even as far as consultation with experts is concerned, as it is reasonable and possible, because the close-to-miss discourse is a different kind of discourse from a remote one just because, when I myself have been involved in these remote meetings, I often do a number of things at the same time — at worst, there may be a couple of computers on and I sit at the same time at two or three meetings, where it is not appropriate to concentrate. Of course, you can look in the mirror and change the behavior in the mirror, and that is obvious, but the situation also makes it acceptable that concentration is not so strong. I do recognize — when I speak as a representative from Vantaa — that when we have a meeting place in this capital region, I am a little more frozen to argue about it in relation to those who work from a distance. But let me take another example: Mr Ojala-Niemela's speech pointed out that we would have a week of session, a committee week and then a regional week, and so on, referring to the proposals made at the time by Mr Ahteen — or was he then the President to reflect on this matter. I have another forum, which is another Parliament in which I represent Parliament and Finland, and it is the Council of Europe, which is working precisely to ensure that we have different weeks of part-sessions separately, then there are committee meetings and so on. And yes, in the work of the Council of Europe, if it can be seen that I am now at a distance from being in Strasbourg or France, and I can recognize the situation that even the representatives of the people in the Finnish provinces have in this Parliament. What is crucial, Mr President, is that when you go to meetings in Strasbourg, it is an entirely different category to that of a distance meeting — quite another class. We had a meeting here last week in Strasbourg, and we had a few Finns who were even reporting on the occasion of the meeting, so we recognized on the other hand that this is a grotesque way of being involved in decision-making from Finland. It is a grotesque habit, and there were even some problematic situations. So I would now recommend, and as a strong starting point, that as much as possible we should work in the present situations, force ourselves together to make decisions, also to have discussions. There are circumstances, then, that if the Secretary-General of the United Nations is to be taken on board, even if Strasbourg, if not here now, it may be appropriate for him to be absent from it and so on. So we may find it difficult to move top experts, but it will be better through remote connections, but that would be an exception, not a general rule.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u142	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 23/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u143	Mr President! I will briefly present the committee's report on the Government's proposal 110/2021, which proposes to amend the Investment Funds Act, the Alternative Fund Managers Act and the Financial Supervisory Act. The purpose of the proposal is to implement nationally the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border marketing of investment and alternative funds. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the adoption of the proposed regulation with minor technical changes. It is proposed to add a new Chapter 13a to the Act on Alternative Fund Managers. The reform will also extend the provisions on pre-marketing to those obliged to register, alternative fund managers and alternative fund managers established in third countries. It is proposed that provisions on the selection of a member of the board of directors of a management company be included in the Investment Fund Act so that the members of the board of directors of the management company choose the management company. The proposed provision clarifies the legal situation and is necessary to ensure that the management company is able to verify the knowledge and experience requirements of a member of the Board of Directors. Brief comment on the entry into force: the question of the entry into force of the proposed regulation has been raised in the expert consultation of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the national implementation period has already been passed. Stakeholders have been widely consulted and it can therefore be assumed that the content of the regulation has been broadly foreseeable for the industry. The national transitional provision could create confusion, especially in cross-border situations. Here is a brief outline of the main thrust of our report. The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament approves the Government's proposal 110/2021, as amended, as included in 1st and 2nd paragraphs. the draft law and the Parliament's approval, as amended, of the 3rd bill contained in the Government proposal 110/2021. - Thank you. — This was a unanimous report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u144	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 22/2021 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. — Debate, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-05-ps-109.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has produced a report on the report of Parliament's Banking Council 2020. Needless to say, this year was marked by a global pandemic, a corona crisis. In addition to the direct health and economic effects of the corona virus, the economic environment of the reporting year was characterised by measures to prevent the spread of the virus and efforts to compensate and mitigate the resulting financial losses. Early in the reporting year, the threat of virus spread, the associated uncertainties and restrictions on movement weakened economic prospects in all key economic areas. The Governing Council reacted by reducing its monetary policy several times, stressing the need for a growth-friendly monetary policy for a long time to strengthen underlying inflation and stabilise overall inflation close to the target over the medium term. The exceptional situation overshadowed many of the established standards of economic policy and triggered a wide range of actions aimed at supporting overall demand and corporate liquidity. According to a report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, there is now a broad consensus that economic policy responses to the corona crisis managed to counter the deflationary effect of the start of the crisis. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy reiterates its earlier statement that recent recovery measures have had solid economic justifications. A small, open and export-based economy such as Finland will benefit the EU as a whole. The prolonged recession and possible deepening in other EU countries also affect Finland’s ability to return to a growth path. Moreover, if confidence in the EU's ability to respond to common problems in the region is beginning to be undermined, confidence can also be undermined in terms of financial stability. In this high-quality report, which I dare say, we are dealing with the threat of high inflation, the strategic revision of the ECB's monetary policy, the prospects for the banking sector, our widespread concern about the digital euro and the debt of households, and we also presented some picks and balances on the interface between fiscal and monetary policies. I would encourage Parliament to take a broad look at this report. The committee's proposal for a position is that Parliament has no objections to the report and we therefore propose to Parliament that it adopt the opinion on the report K 19/2021. - Thank you.
