ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 37/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Laiho, please present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u2	Mr President! We are dealing here with the Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases to Parliament. It is proposed to add a new Article 48a to the Act on communicable diseases, which provides for the protection of social and health care customers and patients against covid-19. In the case of social and health care services, any activity involving the risk of infection by close contact with clients or patients susceptible to serious consequences of covid-19 should only be carried out for a specific reason by a person who has not demonstrated that he is protected against covid-19 by vaccination or from laboratory confirmed disease that has been sick for up to six months. An employee who cannot take a vaccine for medical reasons may demonstrate protection against covid-19 by means of a certificate of negative result of the covid-19 test carried out no more than 72 hours prior to duty. It is also proposed to provide for the right of the employer to process health information and activities in a situation where the worker does not meet the conditions laid down. The aim of this proposal is to protect the lives and health of customers and patients who are particularly vulnerable to the serious consequences of covid-19, who use social and health care services. This would also allow regulation to safeguard the health and safety of social and health care staff and to contribute to ensuring adequate access to social and health care services. It has also been pointed out, in fact, in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this is not a compulsory vaccination. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the proposed regulation to be justified and its objectives to be of particular importance. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also states that there are clearly acceptable grounds for the proposed regulation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also agrees with the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the proposed regulation is an obligation to ensure that services provided to patient and customer groups within the meaning of the provisions are provided only by a person who is protected against covid-19. In the view of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, protecting the lives and health of customers and patients, as well as maintaining the functioning of the health care system during an epidemic is a very important criterion for the adoption of the proposed Article 48a. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stresses that the Act on communicable diseases already contains provisions on the protection of vaccinees for workers in the social welfare and health care sector. Although some aspects of the proposed regulation are different from the provisions of Article 48, the proposed regulation does not provide for a new obligation on the basis of which it is based, but has already been seen as requiring protection of the worker in relation to the protection of the life and health of other persons. However, in the view of the Committee, the proposed temporary regulation in principle specifies that this obligation, based on legislation already in force, is incumbent on the worker in order to combat the current epidemic also in relation to covid-19. According to a report received by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there is a lack of clarity as to the application of the current Article 48, in particular as to whether, under this Article, vaccine protection may be required for communicable diseases other than those mentioned in paragraph 2. The views and decision-making practices of senior law enforcement have also been partly contradictory and have therefore been considered justified. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it important that, in the current epidemic situation, there is a clear provision for vaccine protection for social and health care staff, so that there is no doubt about the right of the employer to provide protection against the vaccine. The committee therefore considers the proposed regulation to be justified. The regulation would not only be limited to the staff involved in the duties of social and health care professionals, but would also, according to the reasoning, apply to persons engaged in cleaning or catering activities, for example, who, in the performance of their duties, could pose a risk of infection to the customer or patient when they are in the same room or room with him. The committee notes that, according to the wording of the provision, the requirement is specifically addressed to tasks involving a risk of contagion caused by close contact. Mr President! This proposal also contains exceptions to the use of covid-19-protected personnel, i.e., according to this proposed Article 48, the employer may, for a specific reason, use a person who does not have adequate protection against covid-19 to work with customers and patients. Such an exceptional situation could be a particular cause if there is a significant deficiency, i.e. that no person meeting the requirements is available quickly or at all, but this point must nevertheless be used at a very high threshold. The Committee also stresses that, because of the risk of passing infections, there is no justification for compromising protective equipment, hygiene measures or testing in the event of symptoms or exposure, even when the staff are protected by vaccination or disease. According to the proposed proposal, a person who has a medical, medical reason for not being able to take covid-19 should be tested in such a way as to demonstrate the negative result of a covid-19 test taken up to 72 hours previously and these tests for medical reasons are free of charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u9	Thank you. — Representative Rantanen, Mari gone. — Mr Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the year, I took a measure initiative and submitted it to Parliament on 2 February. In the initiative, I proposed that the government take measures to clarify the Act on communicable diseases, and in particular Article 48 thereof, so that forced vaccinations are not carried out on the basis of it for citizens and health care workers, nor on the basis of any other law, such as the Act on Preparedness. So I submitted that initiative to Parliament more than ten months ago, and it was not until the second week ago that my initiative was taken up, and it was in connection with this absurd forced vaccination proposal by the government. Of course, the Committee on Social Affairs rejected my initiative, but what else would you have expected from it, because the whole committee is made up of representatives who have lobbed these shots. That is why I now propose that Parliament adopt my initiative on measures 5/2021. Nor did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs see any problem with this government proposal, which is to say that even the members of the most important committee in this House are forced to vaccinate the social welfare staff is just an open-ended case. I have to ask each and every one of you on behalf of these vaccines: Why have you not supported my proposals calling for the content of these vaccines to be examined? Why? I mean, why? Ladies and gentlemen, I have wondered when this madness in our presence will end and what is the thing that would force this madness to stop. Have you thought about it? It may well be that the whole of health care will collapse in this country, and it can happen right now, ladies and gentlemen, if you accept this government proposal. Maybe that's a good thing. Perhaps it will force us to act, because otherwise you will not have enough understanding to stop this madness. This became clear to me here today when I listened to your speeches at the last part-session. Moreover, you are already so deep in the corruption of this country that you will no longer have a return to the way of truth until you completely open your hearts to the good and thus separate yourself from all that you now represent. If you do not return to the Constitution, that day will be closer than you think when the people take over the authority that belongs to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u13	Congressman Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u14	Mr President! I find the government's proposal to impose a corona vaccine obligation on medical personnel extremely problematic. It would apply not only to patients at risk, but also to all staff members who are in contact with these caregivers. This significantly increases the number of persons subject to the obligation to take the vaccine. In practice, this may apply to all 55,000 social workers who are in contact with each other and who are not protected by the vaccine, as the government calls for. One argument in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee is that vaccination ‘may contribute to the creation of indirect protection’. I mean, it might help. I mean, really, what is going to happen in this house when laws are being passed with such a weak argument? It is particularly remarkable that the effect of the omicronvariant is not taken into account at all. Experts seem to agree that it penetrates vaccine protection and is more susceptible to transmission than, for example, a deltavarian. The vaccine alone will not prevent this epidemic, and the vaccines will primarily protect the vaccine itself. Other means should therefore be put in place. Instead of having to use the vaccine, the Finns of Peru have presented rapid testing of nurses before the shift. We have evidence of this in an earlier government proposal. Testing gives about 50% protection if compared to the vaccine when the test is performed once a week. If it is done more often, the percentage will be higher. Similarly, within 2 to 3 months, the vaccine protects the person much less than this percentage given by the test. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the fact that testing staff would also be a possible means of reducing the risk of infection. The accuracy of the antigen tests is not 100 %, but it is not the efficacy of the vaccine either. Yet pressure is being exerted, intimidated, and now forced to take vaccines. The test option will not even be considered as an alternative to the vaccine for the part of the caregivers. According to the government’s proposal, the committee’s report mentions the following: ‘The strategy for the use of antigenic corona tests can make use of epidemic management, but the sameis the case for a more limitedsensitivity and Mr President! There is a language here that suggests that the antigen test is not reliable. However, the following phrase goes on to reflect on the same question: ‘According to the strategy,it is possible to use home tests,for example,to improve the health safety of workplaces or educational institutions. In the following sentence, this suspicion of the antigen test is eliminated. Mr President! The committee considered this antigen test more when it drew up this report. The committee stresses that it is the responsibility of the service provider to increase reliability, for example through home testing itself. They want more home testing. This decrease in antigen testing in this context — the fact that the government does not want to introduce them as an alternative to the vaccine — is unfounded. This suggests that nurses do not know how to carry out this antigen test themselves at their workplace before the shift begins. There's talk of testing at home, which is problematic, not reliable. I would have liked to have seen a more honest approach to people in the care industry. These 55,000 persons without this vaccine protection required by the government are those who have spent nearly two years at the forefront fighting for the health of this people. They have exposed themselves to this virus and have not complained about it, and now, in gratitude, they are offered an end of employment as a last resort. That is not acceptable at all, Mr President. The vaccine does not prevent infection with certainty, so testing would achieve the same, if not even better, protective efficacy depending on the frequency of testing. In this way, there would be no need to interfere with the fundamental rights of carers. This is an alternative for the Finns. The core area of fundamental rights is the right to equality, the right to personal freedom, the right to physical integrity and the right to livelihood. The government's proposal affects all of these on the basis of the assumption. The assumption that a healthy person is ill even though there is no evidence of it. The assumption that the person vaccinated is healthy, although there is no evidence of it. If this does not violate the principle of equality, what does it do, Mr President?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u15	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u16	Mr President! I am going to make a few speeches, and I will try to raise different points in them. Now, however, first of all, I would like to express my concern that this compulsory vaccination of carers, which is popularly called forced vaccination, brings great tension to our society, and I am afraid that it will cripple the functioning of our health care. Mr President! The first thing I want to do is to deal with it from the constitutional point of view, and in that framework of the Government's proposal 226, I already read here that the Constitution guarantees the integrity of human dignity, that all public activities must be strictly governed by the law, that people are equal before the law and that no one must be put in a different position without an acceptable basis, even because of their health. The Constitution also contains the following passages: ‘Everyone has a right under the law to acquire his or her income through his or her chosen work, occupation or business. The public authorities must take care of the protection of the labour force. Public authorities must promote employment and seek to safeguard everyone's right to work." Article 19 ‘Everyone who is not able to obtain the security required for a humane life has the right to nonessential income and care. The Constitution provides for the following protection of Reciprocally:‘From the obligation torequire Mr President! There is therefore a government proposal to HE 230 to the Parliament for the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, and a temporary new provision is proposed to the Act on communicable diseases, which would enable workers in the social and health sector to be required to receive corona vaccination. The need for corona vaccination for workers in the field of social services would take effect as soon as possible. In this context, last Thursday the Constitutional Committee finalised its opinion on vaccine protection for social welfare and health care staff. According to the committee, the draft law is in accordance with the Constitution and I do not think it is. As a Member of Parliament, I feel obliged to bring to the Chamber the legitimate concerns raised by this decision of the Constitutional Committee, even among Finnish higher education constitutional experts. Pauli Rautiainen, a professor of social law at the University of Eastern Finland, wrote on Thursday 16 December. In the Constitutional Blog, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, in particular, the fact that non-vaccinated carers would not be obliged to pay their salaries at worst: ‘In addition, the Constitutional Committee has raised fundamental rights issues of this kind. This is despite the fact that the provision prevents a person from supporting himself by working. I'm telling you, that's harsh. It is worth noting that Mr Rautiainen's criticism is not limited to the most recent opinion of the Constitutional Committee, but that the committee's constitutional control has been escalating in the past. In particular, statements relating to corona and coronapass will be given their honour in the blog. He will find reasons not only for himself but also for the expert opinions received by the committee. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I am extremely concerned — I repeat: extremely concerned. This article of a constitutional expert cannot be ignored in the debate. I would like to ask the government ministers: are you at all aware of this justified criticism that has been received by the proposed law and the whole process? This cannot be the case if the pay of nurses or other persons working in the hospital is cut off. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u17	Thank you. — Mr Ronkainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u18	Mr President! In practice, this government proposal is about extending the corona pass to social workers working with patients and customers who are vulnerable to the effects of the corona. The government is taking steps to make the corona passport more and more a means of exerting pressure and coercion. Social workers are being pressured to take a corona vaccine in such a way that it is becoming an option even to lose their jobs — in other words, in a situation where the public sector suffers from a shortage of skilled social workers. Now the fundamental principles and values of the Western rule of law are being thrown into a scrap heap. Corona vaccine should be a personal and weighed decision for everyone. All vaccines and other medical measures have consequences, benefits and disadvantages. However, the benefit or disadvantage must not be artificially created by society, which allows or prohibits participation in the normal functioning of society. Of course, the right of risk groups to safe treatment, including vaccination of health care personnel, is important. Still, it cannot walk over or be greater than the personal freedom of choice of every human being as regards the vaccine and his own body. No one can be required or required to take any foreign matter into his body, but decisions must always be based on free will. I've protected myself with two vaccines, and I'll take a third when it's possible. However, vaccination has been aware of my decision before any corona passport was even mentioned. I believed that the decision was voluntary for everyone then and will continue to be. Raising the vaccination coverage of society is a good goal, but not through coercion or pressure, but only through voluntary action. In nursing staff, vaccination coverage is already good, about 90%. Coverage is therefore better than the average population. In Finland, communicable diseases of general concern have been eradicated through national vaccination programmes. There was no need to force or create models to treat the non-vaccinated differently. The Constitutional Committee has assessed the government's proposal and found it unconstitutional. In this context, however, I would like to stress the general principles of the Constitution. Everyone has the right to personal freedom and integrity, to the protection of private life and to work and industry. The only guarantee for patient safety is the testing of the medical staff and verification that the person does not carry the virus. The rapid tests that have come to the market on a wider scale will allow for wider and more accurate screening. In the debate too much has been built to make us feel safe with the corona passport and be able to act in everyday life without being a threat to others. However, the Korona Pass itself does not protect anyone. The green light on the reader’s terminal does not automatically mean that the passport holder does not carry or infect the virus. The Korona Pass is no proof of that. At its worst, the Korona Pass lulls people into a false sense of security. At present, despite the double vaccination coverage of over 83%, there is a record rate of infection. Omicronvariant in particular appears to be contagious to both non-vaccinated and vaccinated subjects. What if the person who was vaccinated doesn't even realize he's carrying the virus? Is the vaccine not dangerous for the unvaccinated and not vice versa? The best protection for risk groups is their own vaccination and intensive testing of personnel. The use of the Korona Pass and its extension to the workplace threaten and divide the nation in a way that cannot be advantageous for the management of the pandemic or in any other way. That is why I cannot support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u19	Thank you. — Mr Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u20	Mr President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists objected to this government proposal. We do not support the proposal to pressure social and health care workers to take the vaccine, and we propose a more effective way of preventing the spread of infections before the start of the shift through rapid tests. I would like to raise a few points from this objection. It's long enough for me not to have time to read everything. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it is estimated that some 55,000 people working in the field of social services have no protection against covid-19. About 31,000 are without the first vaccine or protection from the disease. The Group of the Party of European Socialists notes that the implementation of the legislation proposed by the Government in its proposed form endangers the carrying capacity of health care, may lead to the declaration of exceptional conditions and may not even effectively reduce the risk of infection by customers and patients in nursing or nursing work, when the likelihood of virus variants becoming more common among vaccinated workers is also increased and vaccinated or previously infected workers are not regularly tested according to the proposal. In addition, customers and patients have the possibility to be infected by visiting persons who are not required to have vaccine protection are not required to certify the disease or negative test results. In essence, the legislation presented is inadequate and does not lead to its objectives being achieved, but in practice is only a means of exerting pressure on workers in the social and health sector to undergo compulsory vaccination. However, the only practical way to minimise the risk of infection and to ensure that people who have fallen ill do not come to work is to test the staff at the beginning of each shift. It is not the whole of the social and health sector, it is the people, the workers who work with fragile customers and patients. In particular, therefore, in order to achieve the objectives of the proposal, the option of testing would be justified and the introduction of rapid tests should be speeded up. The use of rapid tests would make it possible to carry out significantly higher tests when the test results do not need to be analysed in a laboratory. The Ministry examines the benefits of rapid testing in a rather purpose-oriented and limited way, as the positive test result obtained in the rapid test should of course be verified in the laboratory by means of a PCR test. The use of rapid tests does not in itself jeopardise the availability of other healthcare testing activities, but could significantly reduce the number of cases of infection caused by vaccinated workers infected with penetration. Mr President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the problems relating to the protection of workers' health data related to the regulation proposed by the government are important and have not been adequately addressed in the committee's deliberations. The Assistant Supervisor has stated that the proposed provision should be assessed in relation to Article 88 of the Data Protection Regulation and the proposed regulation should be notified by the Commission as set out in Article 88(3). The report has not taken a position on notification at all, and obviously that is not the intention. In the expert consultation, SAK and JHL considered that the role of occupational health care has not been adequately taken into account. The Group of the Party of European Socialists shares the view expressed and notes that there is no justification for dealing with the details of the health status of the worker outside occupational health care. In the same way, the problem arises as regards the status and supervision of the temporary agency, since Valvira does not have the power to supervise the temporary agency companies. The alternative approach proposed by the Finns-based, which would test all employees at the beginning of the shift, would not only significantly reduce the risk of infection than the government's regulation, but would also solve the issues of data protection in key areas. Where an assessment of an employee’s ability to work is carried out solely on the basis of a negative or positive test result, the sole subject of supervision and the data recorded would be the test result and no further assessment of the worker’s health status would be necessary. In this case, the protection of the employee's private life would not be unduly violated. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers it to be a special and unjustified view of the report that, in the event of the legislation proposed by the government, where an employer would be obliged to look for another job for an unvaccinated worker, it would be considered that the employee was prevented from working on his own account in a situation in which such other work was not available and that payment could be suspended on this basis. Mr President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that Article 3 of the Government's proposal contradicts the Employment Contracts Act and leads to an unreasonable situation insofar as it includes the possibility of suspending the payment of wages without lay-off, because the employer has an obligation to seek replacement work and if the employer is unable to demonstrate such work, the situation is not due to the employee. This approach also suggests that the real objective of the government proposal is to create a situation where social and health workers are forced to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u21	Thank you. — Representative Berg, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u22	Mr President! At first, it is good to remind you once again that this is not about forced vaccination. Already, certain work assignments require certain vaccines when treating fragile patients, with the aim of protecting these patients. No one will be forced to take the vaccine, no one will be forced into the injection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u25	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u26	Mr President! These actions, such as a corona pass and a vaccine obligation, feel that we should be regulating these matters on the assumption that we are talking about a vaccine that actually prevents it from getting or spreading the disease in relation to these vaccinated persons. When comparing this corona vaccine with these other vaccines that medical personnel are obliged to take under certain circumstances, as we well know, they are well established. They prevent that disease, they are not vaccines on temporary marketing authorisations like these corona vaccines, so they cannot really be regarded as analogues. On the other hand, where this regulation is an analogy from the duty of nurses or medical staff or, more generally, from hospital staff, is that in practice, as I remember Mr Ronkainen said in previous speeches, this is the extension of the vaccine passport to the workplaces in the field of social welfare and health. That is actually what this is all about. This procedure is fully analogue with the vaccine passport. Now that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has previously assessed the use of the vaccine passport, it has been said that it is not problematic if it is targeted at services that are not necessary, but I think that in those opinions it has already been stated that certain problems may exist if the regulation of the vaccine passport is extended to the workplace and is actually being extended to the workplace. Of course, the government has a broader extension in the consultation, but this is actually a very large extension of the social and health sector from this corona vaccine and not just for the medical staff whose vaccination is necessary for therapeutic reasons, but in practice this will be extended and very widely covered by this proposal. However, I think that this aspect should be followed up more closely when this proposal is perhaps being implemented and the shortcomings that arise should be addressed. That is the problem here: when the presence of a vaccine, a double vaccine or even a triple vaccine does not guarantee that a person does not spread a deltarian, and in particular does not guarantee that a person does not spread an omicronvariant, then does it become a little similar, that asymptomatic persons who are actually carriers of corona move among the medical staff there, and when they are not being tested now, when they are supposed to be clean because of this vaccine, they are actually spreading the disease to patients. This kind of risk is quite de facto there, this through-infection issue. This is another problem. Then the second problem is the practical issue if there are now 55,000 medical staff who have not taken this vaccine so far. They have well known that it is available; it has not been caught. They've had some other reason not to take that vaccine. Is it the reason why they are being subjected to smoke and pressure from such legislation, or are they leaving the labour market?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u29	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u30	Mr President! We are now adopting a law which means that when it comes into force, only a social worker can be in close contact with patients who have been vaccinated or have a disease that has been sick for up to six months, and this law will remain in force until the end of next year. Mr President! I believe that, when we have been at the grip of this corona pandemic for almost two years now, we have always had to consider what are proportionate measures so that we can protect the most vulnerable people in particular. I think that this law, which we are dealing with right now, is very good in the very sense that we are protecting the most vulnerable: the disabled, the babies, the malignants, those with reduced resistance. In this respect, of course, we have listened very carefully to the views of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, because there has also been an assessment of the proportionality of whether or not such a request can be made and what the consequences will be. But what happened now is that the Constitutional Committee, as it were, gave him its blessing. We can proceed with this law and it is not unconstitutional. I also think it is good in the sense that we cannot talk about the need for vaccination, but that the employer must organise other work in accordance with the contract of employment, or if there is no other work available within the framework of the contract of employment, then some other suitable work that is available. If, for some reason, it is not possible to accept it, then of course we have social security, that is, income support, which can then be applied for in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u35	Thank you. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u36	Mr President! We are therefore dealing with the government's proposal to amend the Act on communicable diseases so that staff working specifically with groups of patients particularly vulnerable to the serious consequences of the corona should have either a diseased corona disease or full vaccine protection. I wonder about the government's haste to bring such a proposal before Christmas, and in connection with many other amendments to the Act on Disease Control, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that there should be sufficient time for this to happen. Good speeches have been heard in the Chamber for many of you who have worked there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I myself recently received this report, and I have been looking at it here and listening carefully to what you have said. The purpose of the Government proposal is precisely to protect the lives and health of vulnerable social care customers and healthcare patients by minimising their risk of covid-19 infection from people working with them in close contact. When I looked at this report, there was a feeling that there has been a great deal of information and sources used here about the previous virus variants. We know that the vaccines have not even given the deltavariant full protection, and even less now the omicronvariant, which is spreading at a fierce rate. According to experts, two or even three vaccinations do not provide protection against the possibility and continued spread of omicron infection. We all know that the vaccine series — whatever it is, three vaccines are currently recommended — protects itself from a very serious disease, but does not protect itself from getting the virus, carrying it and infecting it. That is why, as a health care professional, I am very much concerned that, now that such an obligation is being imposed on health care staff, such as cleaners, cleaners and so on, as it is listed here, is this vaccine protection at all sufficient in this situation, where we know that the omicron is spreading so strongly if we really think about the fragile patients and groups of patients for whom corona virus infection can be fatal. I personally believe that this government proposal and report should have given more attention to adequate protective equipment, including good, quality masks and their use and other measures. In addition to that, I wonder that the services should really assess the fact that the staff will be tested before the shift. Health care personnel take a wide range of samples from patients, so of course they can also take these quick samples when they go on duty, I think, with sufficient professional skills. Even when the government’s proposal was discussed, there came to be a figure, not 55,000, but some 16,000 health - care professionals, of whom it is thought that they could not take a vaccine for one reason or another, and I wondered — nowhere did I find such a figure — how many of these 16,000 work in a unit that actually has these fragile patients who are susceptible to serious corona disease. There was no such number anywhere. I do not know whether you have had it on the committee. Then, on the other hand, when we know that more than 80, even 90 % of the health care staff have already been vaccinated at the moment, how many of the medical personnel who do not have partial protection from the vaccine are actually working in these units. I think this would be the most relevant information in assessing these... [MikaNiikkoarvo] On the other hand, THL has been showing us that close contact is a situation with more than 15 minutes in the same closed space. Well we know with the omicron and the deltavariant that it can catch up in a much smaller time, but I stayed to wonder how much such vagueness is involved in this government proposal, for example, what is really that close contact, and then when we talk about cleaning people or those who work in catering, for example, if you take food to the patient, then it certainly won't take 15 minutes if you don't leave to feed. That there is a lot of room for interpretation when you think about what it could mean in different units. Similarly, I wondered about this situation that for one reason or another a person cannot take the vaccine: Here, first of all, I would say that I would see that it would also be important to increase real knowledge and properly eliminate fears and threats and, in that way, to alleviate anxiety and fear in many situations. And I believe that the vaccine coverage among the staff is still increasing. But then there are those who, for one reason or another, cannot take the vaccine — only a serious allergic reaction or, for example, heart inflammation is mentioned here, but then I wonder, for example, those who have a spouse or child in the family or in the immediate family who have suffered serious harm from the vaccines and who are, as a matter of fact, fear, timidity, just as is justified, and I would see that the doctor's professional ethics and also the presentation should give a light to the fact that the doctor should be able to assess in which other situations it is quite justified and justified to advocate the incompetence of someone's staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u38	Thank you. — Mr Kyllönen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u39	Mr President! Indeed, we are talking about legislation that protects the most fragile and vulnerable and provides for a section to ensure that those who are not vaccinated do not work with the most vulnerable in their health. It must be remembered that about 90% of the workers in the health sector are already on vaccination coverage, and a small part of the team is among those who have not taken vaccination. The expert hearings revealed that about 30,000 unvaccinated vaccines, about half of which may come to be vaccinated and half may be excluded from this vaccination. The 16% raised by Mr Tanus was an estimate of those who do not intend to take or consider the vaccination from the point of view that they would not take it at all. Legal assessment has been carried out, contrary to what may have been suggested here. In considering this regulation from a fundamental rights point of view, it is justified from the point of view of the fundamental rights and the obligation to safeguard human rights provided for in Article 22 of the Constitution to limit the fundamental rights of a person laid down in Articles 6, 7, 10 and 18 of the Constitution in order to best protect the lives and health of particularly vulnerable persons and persons susceptible to serious penalties for covid-19. At the same time, the health and safety of persons working in social and health care services would also be protected. There is a very strong justification for the proposed regulation in terms of the fundamental rights system. Regulation would safeguard the lives and health of highly vulnerable customers and patients in relation to covid-19. In accordance with Article 22 of the Constitution, the proposed regulation provides for the protection by public authorities of the right to life guaranteed by Article 7(1) of the Constitution, the right of every person to the necessary care provided for in Article 19(1) of the Constitution, and the obligation of the public authority under Article 19(3) to provide adequate health services and to promote the health of the population.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u42	Thank you. — Representative Koponen, Noora gone. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u43	Mr President! Now we are dealing in practice with the need for vaccination. As a person in the pharmaceutical sector and as a person working in a pharmacy, I do consider vaccinations to be very important, but I do not support the need for vaccination. Let's start thinking about this from the point of view that it's of course important to secure fragile patients and things like this. It is important to catch the people who carry the corona so that they do not infect others. After all, now that you have received vaccinations, that does not necessarily prevent them from being caught by the corona. But it may be in a way that hidden, unwittingly infects other persons who are, even if otherwise, seriously ill, and that is not, of course, a very good thing. That's why testing is extremely important. In fact, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Finns have suggested that we do not support the government's proposal to pressure social and health care workers to take the vaccine; instead, we have proposed a slightly more effective way of preventing the spread of infections: testing workers just before the start of the shift with rapid tests. Kaisa Juuso has made this performance here. I support the motion he has made. That is also what we will continue to discuss. If you do not know the situation of a nurse, the current situation is that if you are suffering from corona and working in a hospital or similar places and you do not, in a way, get caught suffering from the corona, it can really be so funny that if you go abroad, it is only at the time when a person takes a corona test that you get caught that you have become ill with the corona. Somehow it seems strange not to secure in the hospital the situation that these sick people would be protected, that it would be possible to catch the person who is now ill so that they could avoid other infections. And of course we must now wonder whether people in health care are not fully trusted because it is thought that home tests and other such health care tests for themselves would not be reliable. Somehow I wonder if we in Parliament can do these tests before we come here to work. If we can do those tests once, then of course now professionals, health care people, really know how to do them. However, more respect should be given to the professionalism of health care. What is really regrettable is this introduction of the vaccine requirement, but more importantly, I would consider it testing, as the True Finns have done. Testing, testing and testing — it is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u44	Thank you. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u45	Mr President! It is wonderful that there are members of the government of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health here to discuss the content of this report, and now that this is about to be adopted with all these hairs, it is necessary to highlight the facts about which you have been silent. In fact, the old saying goes that whose bread you eat, its songs you sing, and the representatives of the government must sing this song, even though it may not in all respects be what you yourself have implied. Mr Berg, Member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, a few corrections to your last speech: Firstly, you mentioned that, for health reasons, medical staff can continue their duties without taking this covid-19 protection, i.e. if there is a health criterion. That is true, but, in fact, there is hardly anyone who can get that health criterion. The Government’s proposal explicitly states that ‘the non-vaccination of a medical practitioner is assessed according to the grounds of the proposal in accordance with In addition, it continues to be:‘According to the reasonings, without the need And then it says what those reasons could be. Such a reason may be, for example, that a person has had a rare serious allergic reaction after vaccination and that an alternative vaccine is not available or that the person has had heart inflammation following a previous coronary vaccination. In other words, only those who have experienced serious, very serious symptoms after the first vaccine are mentioned here. That's all this is about. Any other person who has not taken the vaccine — the 31,000 persons who have not taken the first — does not apply to them. In this regard, you did not remember to monitor the interests of these people when you were preparing this law. Another thing: You said that pay must not be interrupted and must give another alternative job and must find this sort of second job in the house. Well, the government’s proposal says this: ‘If a worker does not have sufficient covid-19 protection...’and then directly refuses to provide a worker with any Well, what is the first thing that comes to mind for me, who has been in the employer's role quite a bit? If my employee does not wish to perform the task assigned to him, I will suspend his salary if the law allows it. And what will happen to those in temporary employment? Well, I'm sure we know what's gonna happen to them. So this doesn't give them that protection, either. On top of that, the government also rewards — the Social Democrats, the Left and others — how did you monitor their interests at the hearing when you did this? You are still rewarding those workers by means of legislation that they are not entitled to unemployment benefit. As Mr Kauma has said here, they are entitled to social security, go for social security, benefits. How dare you in the assembly treat these people like this? Mr President! Perhaps there is a little glimmer of light here for all you social workers, namely this is what they say to you: an employer may deviate for a particular reason and take you to work even if you do not have vaccine protection. This law makes it possible to take them to work if the patient's work at the hospital or occupational health unit is compromised. In other words, if there are not enough staff, this is the only bright spot for these 55,000 workers. If you do not go to work, if you leave the workplace, the entire department will be empty, half-empty of the employees, then I think the employer will say that we will deviate from this for this particular reason. And remember, if you receive such an exemption, it is said here that the pay obligation can be suspended unless otherwise agreed. Now it is worth renegotiating the collective agreements, that is to say, ask the employer: if I continue anyway, when you first kick me off and ask me to work, then we will make an agreement that the payment of wages should not be interrupted if you arrive at other conclusions later. Mr President! There are still many, many flaws that the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not tell us truthfully here, and I would like to continue with them for a while in my speech. Who is covered by this covid-19 protection? Who is bound by this? It was suggested that this only affects those workers who work with fragile people. In practice, it was suggested that only those with close contact with this client or patient, but the government proposal says otherwise. Representative Berg, here on page 5, says: ‘However,the protectivecovid-19-disease status should be based on the presentation,also on those who are not in direct contact with a customer or patient but who could spread infection to other staff who would be employed, including those who would be exposed to And then it is listed here that, for example, certain staff from a health centre or hospital department or from the same social welfare unit, and this goes so far, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u46	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u47	Mr President! This proposal for a vaccine obligation on social welfare and health care staff, which is temporary, is strongly linked to the obligation already in force under Article 48 to provide adequate protection for vulnerable persons in the care of vulnerable persons, and it is an employer's obligation to ensure that staff are protected at the moment — infectious diseases such as measles and also influenza and varicella have been mentioned. And this draft law has now been designed to make it clear precisely that, in the case of this communicable disease which is of general concern, it makes it clear that the obligation is being made clear there, and also more precise, what it means in practice, because there have been different interpretations and ambiguities here, and that is why this has been brought to Parliament. And as has been said about the debate here, it is a good thing that it has been brought up and this debate is being held, and it has also been thoroughly discussed in committee. These are therefore those people who are in close contact with vulnerable groups such as babies, immunocompromised persons, elderly people. We all think that when you are sick or a loved one is sick, we must be confident that that care environment is safe and that there are no sources of infection in the staff. Most of the staff take care of this very well, and I would like to point out here that the majority of social and health care staff are highly motivated to take vaccines and the majority do, and it is, in fact, a pity that there are those who do not then take care of this vaccine protection. Unfortunately, there are more of these, for example, in the services of older people and can also be a personal assistant to the care of disabled people, where the level of education is often lower — as is the case with the rest of the population, so that if the level of education is lower, this vaccination coverage is lower. But I also wanted to say about these side effects, as Mrs Niikko pointed out, that they are very rare, and they have been mentioned on the website of the National Institute for Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u48	I would like to say that today, when we voted in this Chamber, the Korona-vilkus flashed and that is why we have this strong recommendation for masks now intended to be used in this Chamber whenever we are here. I hope everyone here is wearing a mask right now. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u49	Mr President! The first thing I want to say to Mr Berg is that you have just made it clear in your speech that the amendment to the law is not about compulsory vaccination. According to SuPeri Paavola, the Finnish Association for Local and Basic Nurses, this passport would in practice mean compulsory vaccination.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u52	Thank you. — I note that these agreed time limits are because everyone can prepare for their own speech and when it begins. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u53	Mr President! When this pandemic started less than a few years ago, I thought two things were important: First of all, through medicine, we find a cure that works with this pandemic, that people get better and better. And the other thing was finding this vaccine. When this pandemic started, it would not have occurred to me that when the vaccine was found, people would refuse it. That's what's going to put an end to this pandemic. We've got a functional vaccine, we've got effective treatments. It must now be borne in mind that, for example, when I listened to Mr Nikon's speech there, this is an exceptional situation. This is not the normal situation in which we are now living, and that is why we have the legislation and rules relating to the exceptional situation. And at least I think that when we have a fine constitution in Finland, which has many different things to appreciate, there is one thing that goes beyond others, and it is defined in Section 7, namely the right to life. And that is exactly what we are here today to talk about, namely that we protect those people who cannot protect themselves. And yes, I also think that when we talk about social workers, people who work in close contact with sick, seriously ill people, they should in particular set an example that this vaccine is also being taken. We have heard very specific speeches here on the pretext of not taking this vaccine. I think it is very important that we continue to increase this vaccination coverage and, in particular, to talk about the benefits of it. However, here people who are opposed to this vaccination are unable to provide any alternative to this vaccine themselves. They talk about rapid tests, but it will never replace the fact that a person exposed to the coronavirus is much more likely to develop a more serious form of disease, no matter what these virus variants are, if he is not vaccinated. This thing is and remains, it doesn't change anything, no matter what arguments you make here. And I would also like to say to Mr Tanus that, when you think that this law is vague in terms of, among other things, what is close contact, it is not possible to go to such an exact level in the draft law as to say how many meters a person working on food or cleaning needs to have to travel to a person who has become ill or how many minutes he is working on it. Yes, these are matters to be defined in their local work, supervisory work and in their organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u54	Thank you. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u55	Mr President! First of all, I would like to defend colleagues, the health care staff, by saying that, of course, the vast majority of nurses and doctors alike have also taken this vaccine, which unfortunately does not provide as good protection against the disease or against infectivity as our traditional vaccines. That is the problem, one problem, is that at the moment we have a vaccine that protects the vaccine from serious forms of disease, but unfortunately it does not provide protection against the fact that we cannot still get the virus and it is also spreading it. But despite this, as has been said, the majority of staff have taken the vaccine, and I would imagine that even in these units, where fragile patients are treated, the percentage is likely to be even higher, so we are talking about a very small number of staff now in relation to this proposal. Here Mrs Kyllönen pointed out earlier that the best way to protect vulnerable patients should be to do so, and I fully agree. I am sure that each of us wants to protect him in the best possible way, and that is why I asked the question that, when we do not have a better vaccine today, we certainly strongly recommend the vaccine, but if, for some reason, someone cannot take it, and for those who do, I would like to ask for an assessment that in which units we should also consider testing it in addition to vaccines. I myself was at an international, big conference some time ago, and even though we all had vaccines, every other day we took a quick test. Or, if a business unit takes a quick test twice a week, should we not, even more so, consider such a practice in those units that treat fragile patients or patients susceptible to these serious corona disease? One way, of course, is by making it easier for us to get a vaccine. For example, there is a greater proportion of those who have doubts and distrust among us who come from abroad and, of course, it is the employer's job to have personal contacts and discussions with them. But one thing I would like to raise in this report when it is said here that, in a situation where the employer, for example, does not have access to vaccinated personnel, there is a particular reason and can be used without vaccination, and in such a situation this testing cannot be required of nurses who have a medical reason not to take the vaccine. I was thinking how, in this situation, to jump back and forth so much that if you have to use unvaccinated staff, then
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u56	Congressman Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u57	Mr President! Vaccinations are important, but if you think about it, vaccination times are very congested and there is a very different situation in different municipalities. The third round is taking place, and in some municipalities it is already going well, in others there are indeed many of those congestions and there is not yet a good start. Earlier in the spring, I asked the minister a written question on what would be thought of the fact that if the pharmacy started to do these vaccinations and the pharmacist would be trained to do so. However, there are more pharmacies in every village and city and municipality than health centres and others, and however, pharmacies are such that they are very accessible among people. There is indeed a shortage of those who give the Korona vaccine, and there are not enough trained staff. In the case of vaccinations, it must always be remembered that this timely treatment is of course important, and even in normal times these flu vaccination congestions have caused congestion and congestion in those vaccinations. And of course, now that health professionals are moving on to the treatment of corona vaccinations, the labor force from elsewhere will be reduced at the same time. Yes, the pharmacy is very attainable. There are over 800 pharmacies in Finland, but there are thousands of pharmacists and pharmacists working there. They've been trained in college. Pharmacies are very accessible, and they are usually quite open, widely open. Opening hours are good. If these additional trainings were directed at pharmaceutical personnel in pharmacies, the pharmacy could usually help to administer the vaccines quite well. In many other countries this has already been introduced. Further training could be provided for pharmacists who are already working and could be included in the pharmacist’s and pharmacist’s training programme. I have therefore made this an initiative of action to start planning this issue immediately. According to the Pharmacy Association, further training would be about a day long, since pharmacists and pharmacists are already in university level education. Indeed, I would like to call for this to be planned immediately, for this additional training to be carried forward, and that is why I have indeed taken this initiative and I hope that it will move forward. It certainly makes real sense for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u58	Thank you. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u59	Mr President! I would like to make one last comment on what was left unsaid. It is clear from the outset that both Parliament and health care must protect all people from serious diseases and potential death-cause pandemics. That is the starting point on which we all agree, of course. This theme, which we here today have been discussing for several hours in two government bill proposals, has not been very popular. In general, MPs, wise ones, do not put their spoon in such soup. As you can see from the number of people present in this Chamber, all more experienced politicians are far from having such a debate. This is simply because there is nothing politically to lose to those politicians who think only of their own career. These are sensitive subjects. It's not like a politician who's experienced in this kind of thing puts his finger on it. Normally, when experienced politicians give advice not to get involved in this sort of thing — just let it go like that, and there it goes — these advice is taken up by many. But I myself think of this issue in the sense that we have not been chosen in this Chamber specifically to defend the rights of all Finns to life, equality and fundamental rights. My conscience did not allow me to remain silent about this, although I know that politically there is not much to gain from this. But it's a matter of justice. It is a matter of doing the right thing with conscience on this issue. Well, if there's a problem, then it's a problem, and we need to go through it more thoroughly. Mr President! This claim that infection is essential for non-vaccinated people in the care sector is not justified. There has been no justification for this in the government's proposal — nor has it been for the people who are here to make this point. Infection with the caregiver is more likely through the family members of the carers than through another colleague who is required to be vaccinated. In addition, infection is more likely, for example, at a leisure place where you have access to a corona pass and where it is known that the corona virus may spread than is infected by another member of your medical staff if you have not been vaccinated. There are a lot of such basic logic issues here that I cannot agree with. Finally, Mr President, I would like to talk about these fundamental rights, which we have been elected here to uphold. Fundamental rights are mentioned in the Finnish Constitution, as we all know. Everyone has the right to personal freedom and immunity. Everyone has the freedom to move and the right to protect their private lives. Everyone also has freedom of speech. No one shall be placed in a position of inequality, even for another personal reason, without an acceptable basis. The right to employment and freedom to conduct a business must be mentioned as particularly important in this legal process. Indeed, the Constitution states that everyone has the right under law to earn his or her living by the work, occupation or occupation of his or her choice. The public authorities must take care of the protection of the labour force. The Constitution also says that public authorities must promote employment and seek to safeguard everyone's right to work. No one shall be dismissed from employment without a legal reason. Well, we have now heard the Constitutional Committee in this house and not only legal scholars but also health professionals. According to them, if such a requirement for vaccination is not imposed on all medical staff and workers on the outskirts of it, we will not comply with the part of the Constitution that also has health protection. Based on the discussions here, this argument is not true because covid-19 is transmitted through both vaccine and non-vaccination to fragile people if it is to be transmitted. As a result, the Finns of Peru submitted that this would be replaced by a test opportunity, so that the protection and safety of the patient would be considerably higher. In keeping with this basic logic, we could have secured the functioning of the Constitution for all people, and I would expect more respect for the Constitution from this Chamber. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u60	Thank you. — I would just like to say that we have a strong recommendation from the President-in-Office that there should only be private speeches in the Chamber when it is not a matter of voting, so that no conclusion can be drawn as to the interest of the issues to be dealt with. — — — — Congressman Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u61	Mr President! And, ladies and gentlemen, all those who follow this occasion and the sitting! In the debate on the referral to this bill, I said that we should not open the door to something that we may not be able to bear. I still believe that this law is careless. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this proposal had also been made very quickly and contained, in my opinion, many very questionable corrections, such as the protection of this vaccine against this virus. It partly protects — it would have been good for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to say that the vaccine does not provide full protection but it protects in some way. So somehow I was surprised, I feel that the Constitutional Committee, which often works carefully, had gone where the fence was low. I feel that this is also an overestimated performance. Unfortunately, there is also the spirit here that this is a repressive motion. This breaks the protection of personal data, breaks the right to work, to pursue one's own profession. There are many things here that we should be very concerned about, for which such a presentation will eventually open doors. The aims of this law are good — to protect people — but its methods are not thought out. It has been said here in several speeches that 30,000 people in the health sector have not taken a vaccine at all and there are more than 50,000 who may have taken one vaccination, or how exactly it went, something like this. That there is a huge crowd of people to whom this bill shows the front door, quite concretely. I have received a lot of messages that this is not a compulsory vaccination law, and a lot of messages that this is a compulsory vaccination law. Well, there's not much of a choice if the employer doesn't have some other job that this person could go to, what his destiny is. Not only does he lose his salary, he also loses his income security. It is clear that this law should have been put in a larger context, to think that if we now go to a single professional group in this way to instruct, why do we not instruct all professional groups, why do we not instruct Parliament? I'm sitting there between two people, and I'm an absolute risk person for this disease. How do I know their vaccination policy? Why are they not told that they have to take the vaccine or that they can't get into parliament at all, or if they don't, they'll lose their jobs here? It's just a reality. Why is this now directed only at the group that does the most work for this corona, under the greatest pressure of all? And now we're gonna put more pressure on them. What if there is a mass flight at various occupational points in social welfare and health care? What if that happens, can we bear the consequences? Mr President! I think this has been overly light-handed. I've already had three corona shots. I've been trying to do what's been instructed. Every morning I run a corona test on myself before I go anywhere, as instructed. But there's a strong draining defect in this show. This puts pressure on people, one professional group, more than any other proposal in this country at the moment. Mr President! In conclusion, I would just like to say that it is very unfortunate that tomorrow, when we vote on this, this will probably go through. I don't think this show like this is going to save any human beings. My guess is that a different kind of proposal that would have left the voluntary, strong direction, as has been the case so far, so that these measures would have been increased — just as was done here in Parliament, that we were given a strong recommendation to our representatives to carry out a corona test every morning — would have been much better than this one, which now divides this nation even more. We would not have needed any more of this popular presentation than what this is now. And to what this will open the door, the time will tell. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u62	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u63	Mr President! I still wanted to come here to talk about this temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, Article 48a. I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Laukkanen, that this law has been adopted in a hurry, and the time for processing could have been longer. Many of these amendments to the Act on communicable diseases have come on a fast schedule and have been for a short time, and Parliament has had to deal with these legislative proposals in a very tight, pressured situation, which is not, of course, the best starting point. However, these many are such issues which have also been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. they are, as in the case of fundamental human rights, and must be weighed against their effects. However, I would like to stress a few points: this is temporary, so until the end of next year this is still in force, so it is not a permanent bill. There is a need for a comprehensive reform of the Act on communicable diseases, which means that there is a clear problem at the moment when the Act on communicable diseases, which has not been adopted in this type of situation, is being patched up. There would be an urgent need for that global reform of the infectious disease law and should be prepared as soon as possible once this acute situation has been resolved, because this epidemic situation seems to continue. However, with regard to this proposal, I can say that the expert opinions have been very positive for this proposal, and there is broad support for this, in any case, from both the workers' organisations and employers' sides, and this has also received positive support from the organisations themselves. There have also been problems raised and, according to the information we have already received, they have been corrected before coming to Parliament. If we are thinking of vaccines, it is quite true that it has now been said that vaccination protection is not so good, but it is still more than 70% and it protects against serious disease, and it is certainly worth taking the vaccines. Vaccinations also reduce infectivity, i.e. they do not prevent it completely in relation to this disease, but they reduce infectivity, so it also reduces the risk to patients and customers. So it is true that people who are vaccinated are infected, but it is not so contagious. I would also like to highlight these views that every person has a right to health and to life, and this is also about the weight that is being placed on justice at the expense of what. Yes, even these people, who are in care, vulnerable, who are at the mercy of so-called others and also at the mercy of their environment there, have a right to health and have a right to life, and if we do not have it in the country of refuge, we are violating their rights. It is also a question of safety at work, the safety at work of the whole work community, that others can work safely. There has also been an attempt to take account of the possibilities to move on to other tasks, if that is the case, that you simply do not want to receive this vaccination. However, efforts have been made to find alternative ways to proceed, and it is also the case that vaccinations can be carried out on working time and possible tests can also be carried out on working time if there is a health need to undergo tests on whether to take the vaccine. With regard to this infectivity, we also wanted to highlight the fact that the vaccine does not exclude and should not exclude other health safety measures, such as hand hygiene, safety intervals to the extent possible, the use of facial masks, protective equipment — that is, it must continue to be taken care of, precisely because of what has been pointed out here too, that it does not completely preclude the spread of the infection. We also had a debate in committee on rapid tests, and it pointed out that they should be more accessible and could also be done in pharmacies. In order to extend vaccination coverage, vaccines should also be provided on a low threshold and occupational health care should be included in order not to be caught in the absence of vaccines, which is obviously also to be obtained when such a bill comes. All in all, in summary: This is a temporary bill, and if social and health care staff and people in vulnerable situations are now obliged to take this vaccine on this basis, it is both for the benefit of their own safety and for the benefit of their customers. Yes, it is a temporary bill, until the end of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u64	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u65	Mr President! The government's proposal for a temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases to 230 Parliaments is therefore still under discussion. A temporary new article in the Act on communicable diseases is proposed, which would make it possible for workers in the social welfare and health sector to receive corona vaccination. This corollary of health care workers would come into force as soon as possible, and I do not support this proposal. In point 3.6 of the Government Programme, just, equal and inclusive Finland reads as follows: ‘A more equal and equal country in Finland, where confidence increases and every human being is valuable. “ Equality, that much talked about in recent years — seems absurd that a left-wing right-wing representative has to talk about this in Parliament and demand equality from the government among Finnish health workers and taxpayers, as well as the government's own programme. Pauli Rautiainen, a professor of social law at the University of Eastern Finland and docent of constitutional law, wrote aptly in the Constitutional Blog: “In his statement on the passport of autumn, the Constitutional Committee swept equality on the non-questionable. The relationship between Article 58i of the Act on communicable diseases and Article 11.2 of the Act on Equality was not addressed unless a vague pro-pro-conference is understood in paragraphs 27 and 28 of the opinion, which merely confused rather than clarified the legal situation.’ The problems of forced vaccination and similar means have also been addressed at international level. Resolution 2361 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of Europe of January this year states freely in English: ‘In any political, social or other way,it is not desirable to do so. It must also be ensured that citizens are aware of the voluntary nature of the vaccine.” This statement is important because the Council of Europe is the oldest and largest cooperation organisation in Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on the other hand, is the largest general assembly in Europe, where the delegations of 47 Member States meet four times a year. It should also be noted that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, has also opposed forced vaccinations since the beginning of December. Here in Finland, Jaana Hallamaa, a professor of social ethics, took a stand on the issue of corona and forced vaccination last week. In an interview with MTV, the professor also calls for calming down when another person’s position on taking a vaccine, for example, raises an internal emotional storm. Hallama stresses that forcing vaccine critical individuals to have a coronary infection increases distrust and divides in society. According to him, the use of force in society is the ultimate means. In the view of Hallama, its price can be the loss of confidence, the deepening of confrontation and the creation of enmities. Finally, he says that if we are forced to exclude people from the Community, we will inevitably displace people and create gaps between people. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! When you read these statements from different quarters, this trend in Finland does surprise you. Would it be time to stop and think about the consequences of our decisions here on Arkadianmäki for citizens and future generations? Mr President! When I quoted this resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it was said that ‘it is necessary to ensure that citizens are aware of the voluntary nature of the vaccine’, and that there is an e-mail and photo of the root of the vaccine,where a certain number of people sent a picture of the invitational vaccine,and It continued to say that ‘this second vaccine is a compulsory vaccine Mr President! That is the speech I have prepared. Are there any more speeches? [First Vice-President AnttiRinne :No. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-156.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
