ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u1	Representatives will be informed that I have pointed out from Ano Turtiai about his behaviour in Parliament. Mr Turtiainen has behaved inappropriately towards Vice-President Eerola in the vicinity of the Chamber on Wednesday, 10 February 2021. I have spoken to Mr Turtiainen and informed him that I regard his behaviour as contrary to and highly reprehensible to the sound and dignified conduct required of the representatives of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by Mr Jussi Halla-aho and others. on the question of Finland's participation in the EU recovery package. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 February 2021. With the support of Ville Tavio Sari Essayah and with the support of Ilkka Kanerva Markku Eestilä, have put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u3	The vote will take place first on Ville Tavio's proposal against Mr Ilkka Kanerva's proposal. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u4	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Please, Minister Harakka, for a moment, let's wait for a little calm here in the Chamber. I'm going to ask the representatives to hold a meeting outside this room. — Now, Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u5	Mr President! The present Government proposal proposes amendments to three administrative laws of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. First, the Private Road Act: The aim of the amendment of section 58 of the Private Road Act is to increase the possibility for the members of the road municipality to participate in the meetings of the road municipality by means of remote access. The proposed legislative amendment would allow remote participation in a road meeting, regardless of what is stated in the private road law or in the road code. This change is considered important as the wider use of the e-business environment will increase the participation of road shareholders in decision-making at the meetings of the road municipality. During the Covid-19 epidemic, difficulties have been encountered in organising the meetings of the road system. The aim is to ensure that the decision-making process on renovations of private roads and applications for funding continues and that no interruptions in the granting of grants to municipalities and Ely Centres would occur. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the law on transport services: The amendments to the Transport Services Act are of a purely technical nature. The purpose of the amendment is to update the new business name of a limited liability company appointed by law. The name of Traffic Management Finland Oy, designated by the Act, would be replaced by the company's new, more Finnish-language operating name Fintraffic Oy. With the amendments introduced from the beginning of 2021, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency can obtain information services on mobility from the company. A technical change of name will clarify the application of the law and increase legal certainty. Pilotage Act: The temporary amendment of the Pilotage Act relates to the continuation of the corona virus epidemic and the resulting need to prepare for the need to ensure the continuity of shipping operations. Temporary amendments would allow for an extension of six months of the pilot’s pilot’s guidance book, pilot’s certificate or exemption from the pilot’s obligation. In addition, it would be possible to issue new pilot guidance books and line pilots without meeting the test pilot requirement, provided that the other conditions for issuing the identity card are met. For both of these derogations, a case-by-case assessment by the Transport and Communications Agency would be required, which would focus on maritime safety and the need for a derogation in the specific situations caused by the corona virus epidemic. The proposals are in part equivalent to 1. Temporary derogations from the pilotage law which entered into force on 20 June. This bill has added ad hoc consideration by the authority. Mr President! I described this amendment of three laws in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications in detail above. The laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The temporary amendment of the Pilotage Act would be valid until 30.6.21. I hope that Parliament will deal with the Government's proposal as a matter of urgency. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u6	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u7	Madam President! The explanatory statement of the government's proposal states that there are more than 370,000 kilometres of private roads in our country and that they are of great importance, for example, to agriculture and forestry and, of course, to the people living along these roads. Private roads are also important routes for cottagers, nature travellers and many other travelers. The vast majority of the wood needed by factories and sawmills will be moved through private forest car roads. This need will increase as the use of wood rightly increases with the growth of wood construction and, among other things, with bioproduct factories. Mr President! The Centre Party wanted strong records in the Government Programme that the whole of Finland will be taken care of and that this care will include private roads. They are part of security of supply, self-sufficiency and multi-spatial housing. We very much welcome the fact that the government has now allocated far more money to the maintenance of private roads. This year, the budget for private road grants was increased to EUR 30 million. At this level, private road money has been last in the 1990s. The amendment to the private road law contained in the government proposal would make it easier for the roads, for example, to apply for these grants through the Ely Centre, just as we heard from the Minister's presentation. This would make it possible to hold the meetings of the roads in an electronic environment without being included in the rules of the roads. I think it is important that the establishment of roads should also be streamlined and, where possible, facilitated by various municipal measures, for example. As stated in the proposal, the place of residence of the members of the road varies, and if the maintenance of private roads cannot be ensured, this will have a negative impact on the economy, especially in agriculture and forestry. The amendment also has positive effects on road safety and, of course, on the smooth daily lives of the residents. It is very important that, with this change, remote participation is still only an option for participation and that it is still possible to attend a road meeting on the ground. Mr President! All in all and all, this government proposal must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u8	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u9	Mr President! It is essential that, during the epidemic, the possibility of remote participation be extended to include the holding of meetings of the roads in an electronic environment. The lack of e-conference practices has led to delays in the activities of the roads, for example, to the collection of tolls in advance and to the exceptional arrangements for meeting procedures in order to ensure safety. Remote meetings could even increase the participation rate in road meetings and decision-making. The Government's proposal states that it is important in organising a teleconference that the road office or the administration provide adequate procedural instructions for remote participation, including voting. It is in accordance with the due diligence obligation of the Tiekunta ombudsman or the care body to choose and prepare means of remote participation so that members have sufficient opportunity to participate in the decision-making process of the meeting and to exercise the right to speak and propose. Where problems can arise is the use of the votes of another or other shareholders in the proxy procedure. The meetings of the faculties are often not very unanimous. Dissension may arise both in terms of funding and in terms of road management. The transmission of a proxy, the verification of authorisations and the remote identification of a shareholder are some of the dangers that, at worst, could lead to a lack of legitimacy of the meeting and thus to a rejection of the meeting. Remote meetings are also vulnerable to system failures, and there is no established way to deal with e.g. the fall of an electronic system in the middle of a meeting. Has the Minister come to think about these small, small problems that may arise here? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u10	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u11	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for bringing this bill to Parliament. There is personal experience of this: I am a member of an association and consequently a member of the faculty. A meeting of that road body should be set up, and when there are no rules to change, this will now enable us to call the assembly of the road and then decide what needs the decision of this road section of the road council. In that sense, this is very important and it is hoped that it will come into force as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u12	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u13	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Haraka, for bringing this government proposal here to Parliament — a very important issue in this challenging time of interest. All in all, this government proposal concerns three things. I myself would like to draw attention to this particular private road law. It is a very good thing that this private road law now goes into current practice, that you can also attend road meetings remotely or as a hybrid. That is a very good thing, and I hope that this will also become the model of perhaps getting more and more shareholders to participate and actively participate in the meetings of the road. It is precisely from these that personal experience has now been shown that no meetings have been held during this corona period, and this now makes it possible — a very good thing. Overall, this will also improve the participation of road shareholders in meetings. I believe that this will be the case in the future. Then there's one thing I'm hoping for: Also, when reference is made here to this amendment of the pilotage law which would allow for the temporary extension of the period of validity of pilotage permits under different conditions and so on, I hope that this same practice will also be taken forward in other administrative sectors. Here are examples, for example, of the continuation of the permissions of law enforcement officers, that they have not been able to hold courses there. But, Mr President, I would like to return to this private road law. As regards private roads, it has now become clear in some cases that when you want to improve and change perhaps a little road profile or shorten the steepities of those private roads, it is often difficult because private road shareholders cannot easily reach an agreement on that issue, and that is precisely what road safety assessment is needed. Now, Traficom's website contains instructions on how to carry out a road safety assessment and who can do it. There are different courses for this. However, when private road care units are still living with relatively tight funds, those road safety assessments are very high in price, and I personally would like to see this also seen in the private road law how this could be taken into account there in the law in the future. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say what Mr Aittakumpu also said: private roads are a very important issue in Finland, and I hope that this matter will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u14	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u15	Madam President! Dear Minister and fellow Members of Parliament! The role of private roads in our regions and rural areas cannot be underestimated; they deserve full attention, and I would like to thank this government for the fact that the private roads have been well taken into account, both from the point of view of subsidies and also from the point of view of this single legislative change that we are dealing with today. This has, therefore, become the case above all with the covid-19 pandemic, the epidemic of allowing participation through mail and telecommunications, even if this is not adopted by private road in its own rules. But you might think that if this corona crisis has any benefit or good will remain in effect, then hopefully it will be these new ways of participating. Today we are talking about more and more diversity in Finland, about people living in two, three or more places, and also about duality, and about the fact that there may be more places in which people are actually covered by this type of road care or other activities, and then it is good to be able to participate in this decision-making process. Mr Ronkainen raised some good points and I am sure that we will receive answers from the Minister in this referral debate. But then one of the things I would like the government to think about is to find a solution for organising these elections as well. There may be people's choices that come even in unexpected moments, and then we will not have a very easy system, I understand, with which elections could be arranged lightly in remote contact, and I would like solutions to be found. This could even be a joint project to create a model for the use of associations, organisations and others, where elections could be organised, for example through bank codes, and it could even be such a national actor, where the costs would then be reduced per association. Mr President! I can't wait to finish: It was interesting to hear the Minister say that this law on transport services will be amended and that the name “in Finnish ” will be made,that is, not in Finnish. Of course, in Finland, when we have a beautiful, fine Finnish language — for many even the mother tongue — we could have done the same with the Finnish name and not just the Finnish one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u16	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u17	Mr President! Due to the prevailing world situation, members of the association are also entitled to participate in association meetings and decision-making at a distance. It is important to be able to make wider use of the e-business environment as it increases the opportunities for road shareholders to participate in meetings and decision-making. A flexible way to participate in meetings and decision-making may also increase the interest of shareholders in private meetings. The possibility of remote participation would be particularly beneficial for distant road members who would be more able to participate in the meetings of the road system. The proposed amendment of the law is important for ensuring the maintenance of private roads, as the decisions on the financing and repair of private roads are taken at the meetings of the road administration, for example. If the maintenance of private roads cannot be properly managed, it may have a negative impact on business in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u18	On this point, I will give the floor to Minister Haraka for two minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Apologies to the Members for the fact that for a very compelling reason I have to be in touch with them at 2.30 p.m. in my own office, but this was quite comprehensively received from all over the world, and I am sure that the rest of the feedback will be received. Representative Torniainen was talking here about the cost of road safety guidelines and their courses, and that is probably something to return to. But that much I can say to you, who rightly spoke on behalf of the private roads, that, apart from being taken into account in the Government Programme, it also plays a very central role in the Transport 12 programme. Of course, the correct observation is that the private roads, the roads of the lower road network, the forest roads are very central to the Finnish industry and industry, and this, of course, came to light especially now that we have this delightful new investment in the bioproduct plant in Kemi. The power of attorney and other concerns raised by Mr Ronkainen are also worthy of consideration. I understand that the basic procedure is that such a proxy will be sent by post, possibly in the form of a registered letter, but this will require quite timely preparation for the situation itself, and it may be a tough requirement, but at least it will be easier to organise than the electoral procedure that Mr Heinonen wanted, which, when it cannot be an open election at the meeting itself, is something that will certainly require quite different procedures, and it could certainly be wise to deal with this as a whole for all associations. In the same breath: the reason I said that Fintraffic Oy
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u20	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u21	Madam President! It is very important for democracy that there are many alternative ways of participating and influencing. This will strengthen cooperation, community and trust. All social and community actors must be included in the distance. It is therefore good that the government's proposal will also provide the roads with this opportunity more easily in the future. The place of residence and mobility of the shareholders varies, and this bill increases the equality of the shareholders. The participation of a shareholder who is prevented by interest rate restrictions or quarantine is also possible at a distance if other conditions allow. It would be good if this bill came into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u22	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u23	Mr President! The Government has submitted a proposal to the Parliament to amend the Private Road Act, the Transport Services Act and the Pilotage Act. Thank you to the Minister for this presentation. Koronapandemia has brought challenges to many areas of our society. It is therefore important to note that, as far as possible, we would be able to carry out these activities within the framework of normal legislation without having to resort to emergency conditions and preparedness laws. That is exactly what this proposal is about. This amends the private road law so as to allow for safe decision-making of roads. The wider use of the e-business environment also increases the participation of road shareholders in the meetings of the road system and is very important for equality and democracy. The temporary amendment of the pilotage law also relates to the preparation of the interest rate situation and related disturbances. The law is intended to remain in force until the end of June this year. Mr Heinonen has just raised a very interesting proposal to make this system of remote voting possible. I myself would be very much in favour of making preparations for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u24	Representative Werner — absent. Congressman Tolvanen, Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u25	Madam President! Here, too, on the part of the opposition, we must praise this government proposal as a whole. It is perfectly justified. And then perhaps it is surprising that, as an Espoan representative, I am focusing on these private road issues, because they are relevant to all of Finland and industry, but they are relevant to us too, because quite a few of us have and are using a summer home in the countryside. It is quite clear that these road meetings 200 to 300 km away will not simply result in a departure, even if significant decisions may be taken there. So it is good that this kind of remote possibility exists and this kind of hybrid meeting is possible to organize. I would like this to be a permanent arrangement. It should not be an arrangement made by this unfortunate pandemic, but a permanent arrangement. I know that there will be a great many challenges in these remote connections and in attending the meeting, and we, in practice, have some challenges here in every session or committee meeting, but they will be overcome. If my age group is able to overcome these IT challenges, then surely many others too, especially the younger knee, which is much smarter in this area. One more thing I would like to raise is to register for this meeting. It has to be very flexible. Of course, the organizer of this meeting must be given some days to allow this meeting to be held at a distance, but if you think that the invitation to a meeting of the faculty comes a couple of weeks earlier by letter in the mail, then it is quite reasonable that, although five working days for the organizer of this meeting will leave time for him to also be able to arrange such a hybrid meeting, a remote meeting. That must be taken into account. All in all, this government proposal is good and well-founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u26	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u27	Madam President! All in all, this law is necessary and timely. After all, we have discussed a number of proposals which have increased these different possibilities for distance participation in meetings. In fact, with regard to this law, the only question arises as to why this proposal has not come to us before. This epidemic has made it difficult for the road to hold meetings — which is why it has not been possible in practice to take a decision on the electronic meeting procedure during 2020? Indeed, during this covid epidemic, overall, the importance of distance participation opportunities for different meetings has increased, and operating in an electronic environment is useful in other ways. I personally hope that we will continue to have practices that will benefit from this unfortunate period of pandemics. For example, it is these roads now: their shareholders' residences vary both inside Finland and even abroad, which is why the possibility of remote participation would continue to benefit those shareholders who live far away from this meeting place. All in all, this is an important issue when we are talking about private roads and related meetings. We have hundreds of thousands of kilometres of private roads in Finland. They are an important part of the transport system and, in particular, of the infrastructure that is important for business transport, in particular for timber management, and for the rural economy and housing, and it is good that the related issues are properly addressed. If I read this proposal correctly, I understand that this is becoming a permanent practice and there is no deadline here which is good, unlike many other similar legislative proposals that we have discussed here, there have been quite a lot of fixed-term laws. I hope that these too will then become permanent practices, so that it will also be possible to meet at a distance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u28	Representative Könttä — absent. Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u29	Madam President! The Minister wished this bill to be dealt with swiftly. We in the Committee on Transport and Communications have already started to consult this law, and we are trying to respond to this wish for our part. It is pleasing to hear that across party boundaries, across government-opposition boundaries, this bill is seen as necessary and to be supported. As far as the private road law is concerned, even in its current form, the private road law allows for a public road meeting to be held in an electronic environment, if that is decided at a public road meeting or if the rules of the road system so provide, but since the law amendment is still so recent, many roads have not yet had time to make such a decision. Especially now, with the covid-19 epidemic, companies, organisations and citizens have considered it important to expand the opportunities for remote participation. Private roads make up the majority of the Finnish road network, which has been mentioned on several occasions, and it is therefore important that this does not endanger them. If, for example, this kind of epidemic is not able to organise the meetings of the road system, this would be jeopardised, and that is why this change is absolutely to be welcomed. This same proposal concerns three different changes. If that remote participation in private road laws is coming to stay or is already there to remain, then instead, this pilotage law — it is also very important to note that it plays an important role in the security of supply in Finland and in the continuation of maritime transport — this time limit is set out here. These are not to be confused. Of course, this must also be the case during the pandemic, and if these pilotage permits cannot be continued with regard to the case-by-case consideration of Traf, then there is a risk that these identity permits will expire and pilot pilot pilots will not be able to be organised because of the epidemic, so that there might not be enough qualified pilots, and that is why this pilotage law has been important and necessary. Mr President! The Committee on Transport and Communications will continue to consult experts on this proposal and will deal with it appropriately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u30	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u31	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. Representative Hoskonen — absent. Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u32	Madam President! During that day, in the presence of the Minister, this issue was already being discussed, and there would have been two comments on this matter: The second relates to these private roads, road roads, which are very extensive in Finland, and then to the meetings of these road cooperatives, road health centres. This new proposal aims to allow these road centres to hold these remote meetings as well, and this earlier debate in this Chamber has already made it very clear that the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, strongly believe that this should be possible, especially in this situation of interest rates. And here, too, there were ideas that at this point one might well imagine that this legislation would also be in a certain way permanent under normal conditions, because those sciences often consist of a lot of people who are not exactly in the same place, especially in those areas where there is a lot of holiday settlement, so that in this point you might well imagine that this kind of remote meeting could be possible. I am not always positive about it in all situations. I see the difficulties and problems associated with remote participation. But, Mr President, it was not my intention to talk so much about these roads, but to raise the question of the three points here, and one relates to the change in this name in that this Traffic Management Finland is now being transformed into Fintaffic, the Transport Management Company. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has been a strange spread to Finland, let me say the people... — I am not saying that it is the disease of an elite, but that more and more of us Finnish companies, companies, institutions are going to be appointed by Anglo-Saxon, English-based names, which, of course, often refers to the fact that it makes sense in international interaction. However, many actors are very localist, and I would like to emphasise what has also been said in the speeches that we should respect this Finnish language, its uniqueness, and in the name of the companies, in the name of the operators, we should clearly show what is at stake in the Finnish language. Even this matter of legal security is still on the table. And I don't have to start listing or introducing these gestures and destinies to you, and so on and so on — the imagination is the limit when these names have been developed for companies, companies, activities that are also very clearly defined by the Finnish name. And this makes sense now that back steps have been taken or returned to the old ones. The post office has returned its name, and even at this point, this heading of the Transport Management Company describes to a great extent what is at stake, and I encourage:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u33	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u34	Madam President! On this change of name, I fully agree with Mr Kiljunen. Indeed, in the domestic market and in the domestic region, it is good to consider these names of governments and other companies. We can then translate them into English in the English text if that is what we want. Then this private road matter and the remote meetings of these private schools: I fully support, as does the whole of Parliament, that they should be able to act in this situation of interest rates and that they should be able to make financial decisions and changes there in a flexible way, i.e. through digitalisation. Since it is already possible in all other sectors, why not in the roads? With regard to the structure of the roads, the summer residents currently raised live further away in Finland and then the locals can be there locally. Especially in situations like this, it is possible to gather people distributed in different parts of Finland more easily together digitally and make decisions. That's what we've learned in the corona era. This is a digital leap in the rest of our lives. Mr President! Indeed, there are 30,000 miles [370,000 km] of private roads in Finland, and their importance as Finland’s vascular system is very important. From there the people leave at the end of the road, the Finnish green gold, the forest, the reserves, the food and so on. But on the other hand, all our summer residents and others are moving in the other direction. It is very important that these blood vessels work with us. In this context, Mr President, I can promote the government's fine budget for this year. We have a level of EUR 30 million for these funds, and it is excellent if we can market this and take these decisions to the Ely Centres in such a way that this money will also be used well. And another point: the parliamentary working group will continue to have a level of around 25 million in these private road grants. It is very important that private roads also function well in administrative terms, but also that funding is used for the purpose for which it is budgeted here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u35	Representative Kankaanniemi — absent. Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u36	Madam President! This amendment to the private road law in this government proposal, which is being discussed here, is very welcome. The decision-making of private roads has certainly become more complex over the years because people live in different parts of Finland. I myself am a member of two faculties, and there is a person in the group of members of the other one who lives in the United States. It must be quite easy to understand that his arrival at a road meeting from the United States to Finland is very complicated, especially during the corona period, but now that this remote connection system is made to play, he too will theoretically be able to attend the meeting. Of course, the time difference is not a problem, but it is not a problem when you are able to participate digitally on the Internet if there is a need. It is extremely good that this digital age is coming before us in such a positive way, and I would now like to wish, Mr Finnish Parliament, that I have spoken about it a hundred times in this Chamber — let it be 101. — finally and finally, we will have those broadband connections to this country in full. Let's build those fibers so we can handle things quickly. And if anyone does not take my speech seriously, I will respect that opinion too, but if fiber optics are built, it is precisely these up-to-date meetings that will be done very well when there is a fast broadband network. For example, 4G, which is in rural areas in most municipalities, unfortunately does not succeed, i.e. it will become a new barrier to service when broadband networks do not work. Mr President! Finally, the fact that, as Mr Pirttila well described the appropriations in the government budget, it is worth remembering that every single litre of milk comes from the private sector, from the side roads that have been considered very minor. Every summer there are berry men, berry gatherers, mushroom gatherers, hikers, by the way only those who move in the wild, and then, of course, it's the most important thing for us, that is, many of us have a summer cottage or a family cottage where we always visit friends to greet or rest and charge batteries. In other words, this bill in its smallness is extremely important. I hope, Mr President, that such proposals will come, but as a condition of this, I see Parliament's heartset that, in the coming months, the amount of money will be put in there to make broadband access play.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u37	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u38	Madam President! This amendment of the law is indeed considered important, as the wider use of the electronic environment will increase the participation of road shareholders in the meetings and decision-making of the road system. And, above all, it is a pleasure to take the decisions now that the government of the country has secured, as has already been pointed out in several good speeches, the financing of the basic improvements in private roads. And $30 million is a lot of money. It will take care of it, as Mr Hoskonen pointed out, that those cubes and gallons of milk are moving along the road. I myself, Madam President, have been driving a milk truck in my youth, and what is better than having a private road in good condition, it goes without saying that the road is in good condition, that it has been demolished, that there have been a great deal of oppressions at the appropriate level. It will be nice to travel on heavy traffic, but above all it will also take care of road safety on private roads, and there will also be school rides and other traffic on roads. And to Mr Hoskonen's speech: I too hope that, in the future and in the future, some of it has already been done on the private roads, the fibre will also be plowed along the road, which will ensure that it will be possible to attend the meetings of the road cooperative there at the end of the sand road in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u39	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u40	Madam President! There was also talk of state funding for the private sector and about the decisions that have to be taken — or can and will be made, and it will certainly be a pleasure to do so online in terms of state funding. A very important part of the state of the roads mentioned by Mr Kettunen is that, for these roads, the funding usually comes at least partially from the municipalities, this maintenance, manure and these ploughing funds. And it is hoped in the run-up to the municipal elections that each municipality will think about it and see, as well as the state at the moment, that it is worth investing in private places, and the post-corona life, as we now live in a multi-spatial Finland, will also continue strongly with the funding of municipalities for their private roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u41	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Mrs Leppä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u42	Madam President! The government's proposal for a new food law will reduce the administrative burden and dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy without endangering food safety. Food legislation will be prepared for the necessary changes to EU legislation and national needs by adopting a new food law. The legislation will also be clarified by bringing together the content of a number of regulations into three regulations. One of the strategic elements of the Government Programme is a vibrant Finland and its part in a vibrant and profitable food economy. One way to achieve these objectives is through the overall reform of the Food Act. The proposed overall reform of the Food Law and the related reform of regulations will therefore implement the objectives of the Government Programme in terms of streamlining regulation and control, investing in food exports and combating the shadow economy. The ultimate objective of the proposal is to streamline regulation and control while maintaining a good level of food safety. This gives operators more freedom and, at the same time, more responsibility. The whole food system will benefit from a reduction in the detailed requirements of the food sector. Food safety will become a stronger issue for companies and supervisors. Madam Speaker! The changing environment in which the food chain operates poses new challenges for both operators and supervisors. In the future, supervision will be targeted on a risk-based basis where it is most needed. The focus of supervision is thus shifted from the control of food apartments to the control of operations, which is more in line with the current operating environment and its digitalisation. With the government's proposal to reform the food law, we also want to tackle food fraud and counterfeiting more effectively. It is therefore proposed to impose a penalty on the draft law as a new issue. The Authority could order the operator to pay a penalty fee of between EUR 300 and EUR 5000 for food controls in cases defined by law. This punitive administrative penalty payment is intended to prevent and rapidly and effectively prevent the non-compliance with food law. The new law would also impose a basic fee of EUR 150 per year and a performance-based fee for the supervision carried out by municipalities. However, the annual fee would not be charged to primary production sites, village shops or public interest entities. This change strengthens the preparatory role of food control and enables more diverse public authorities to work. The annual fee also creates stability and predictability for the sector, since the annual fee is a more predictable financial item for both operators and public authorities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u43	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u44	Madam President! Just like the Minister. Mrs Leppä pointed out that this proposal is about our daily bread, and I thank the Minister for bringing this proposal to Parliament now. This will help to increase the reliability of entrepreneurs and prevent unfair competition. The clarification of the law will improve the operating conditions of the food sector throughout the chain. Certainly the development work will continue even after these legislative changes. It's a good direction, and the government's goals are the right ones. Mr President! The aim of the Centre is to cut red tape and reduce the administrative burden while taking care of food safety. Our goal is also to ensure that the conditions for living are maintained throughout Finland. As Minister Leppä said, part of this objective is the profitable food industry that is included in the Government Programme. Mr President! Today it is emphasized that a person must have or be able to ascertain how and where his food came from. Falsifications of food are a flagrant example of how some are fraudulently seeking benefits at the expense of others. That is why it is important to try to control food counterfeiting, and it is good that it is now proposed to add a punitive administrative penalty to the law. This would only entail costs for an operator who does not comply with food regulations. Mr President! All in all, this government proposal is good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u45	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u46	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. As stated here, Finland has a high level of food safety. It is important and must be protected. It remains at the highest level in Europe and needs to be further improved. As we have found many times, this knowledge of the origin of food is important to us. It is often not visible in all of them, and this is also a good starting point for this reform of the law. Better regulation without endangering food safety is an important objective, and an update of the law will indeed come into a very necessary situation. The fragmentation caused by numerous changes is now being corrected and the law is being updated to reflect the current state of EU legislation. There is quite a lot of EU legislation in it, and these have already been corrected in the past, the most important pieces of legislation in the area of food law. It is good that the effectiveness of controls is improved, that controls can be targeted, in particular, at those operators most in need of controls and whose controls would be most useful. It is important to strike a balance between food safety and food conditions. And the penalty payment is pretty important. It’s pretty significant up there, 5000 euros, and it may be like this kind of sign that now it’s worth doing right that you just don’t get caught up in this penalty payment. Then I would like to put a question to the Minister: what is this kind of professional fisherman whose annual turnover is about 20,000 turbulent, annual fee, and how does this penalty charge treat him? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u47	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u48	Madam President! Finland’s good food safety is an important export asset and it is therefore also important that the authorities support exports. The proposal is acceptable as it aims to streamline regulation and control without jeopardising food safety. The aim of the legislation is to require food business operators to take responsibility for ensuring the safety of their supplies. Clear legislation is in everyone's interest, as it increases the reliability of entrepreneurs and prevents unfair competition. The clarification of the law will improve the conditions for the functioning of the food sector throughout the food chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u49	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u50	Mr President! High quality is the cornerstone of the Finnish food industry, and everyone wants to continue to take very good care of it. This level of food safety must therefore be carefully preserved and, of course, legislation is one part of it. After all, the overall reform of this whole food law was supposed to be part of the regional reform in Parliament last season, but as we know what happened with the regional reform, we were therefore only able to bring about the necessary changes, and now we are facing this overall package and reform. This has therefore been expected, and the work of the supervisory authorities will certainly be made more streamlined and clearer. Food safety is made up of self-monitoring and regulatory control, and, as the Minister has already said, it would perhaps be more of a matter of this functionality and control, and this is certainly the feedback we have received from Members of Parliament on the shortcomings and shortcomings of the current law and control. Research results from 2019 show that food safety in Finland is at a good level and, in particular, in Finland, operators meet the food safety requirements well. However, the increase in food fraud already mentioned by the Minister is worrying also at home. This also has an impact on our exports, namely that Finnish food is highly valued abroad, and I believe that quality is also part of our opportunities for international growth. That is why it is important that we take action ourselves to ensure that our reputation is not undermined either by these frauds. What is also important, however, is that people can be confident that they will receive food that is also reported about the producer, and that is why people today increasingly want to know where their food comes from and that it is safe. I believe that this covid-19 crisis has only increased it. One major social problem worldwide is the use of antibiotics, especially in the meat industry. We see that it is such a threat to the future, just as the covid-19 has been, and perhaps I would like to see us in the food industry in Finland making special bets so that we can:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u51	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u52	Madam President! It is important that Finnish people's confidence in safe and healthy Finnish food is maintained, and this is why this proposal is to be supported and important. It is also important, of course, that this trust is at a very good level and we can be proud of how good quality and high quality food is produced and exported in Finland. The proposal has also followed these current trends, i.e. the growing trend in online food trade, which has been increasing for years in the food sector, and is accelerating and has now also increased during the corona period, and this traditional activity of monitoring food housing has proved to be outdated and impractical. The focus of supervision here is shifted from the supervision of apartments to the control of operations, to the control of food activities, which facilitates the control of such trade, which is appropriate. Of course, there are also sensitive issues involved, and one of the sensitive issues is this authorisation of inspections in the area of domestic peace, i.e. private housing available on premises such as those used by home bakers or catering companies. Of course, it is important that, in order to prevent food poisoning, for example, these facilities can also be subject to more effective controls, but I am sure that this domestic peace, which is protected by the Constitution, must also be carefully considered here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u53	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u54	Madam President! Although this government proposal may not be one of the biggest proposals, it is in line to be able to facilitate the way of Finnish food to that market. And at the same time, I see a big step in the direction of continuing to dismantle the bureaucracy that we had during the last parliamentary term. Finnish foods are certainly the cleanest in the world. I have often wondered why such a clean, genuine, good product does not go any better on the world market. We all have work to do. Of course, marketing is the most important thing. We are here in the north, and unfortunately the market is closed because of the situation in Russia, but I am also positive about the fact that all things usually have a way of settling and finding a sensible solution to sanctions one day. I don't know how to do it, but it'll show up in the future. It is important to keep Finnish agriculture alive and red tape so low and so low that we can also sell these good products abroad. One more thing, Mr President, and that is that we in the food industry, in the raw material sector, that is to say in agriculture, are always faced with all kinds of threats — I am referring, for example, to this situation in white cheek geese. Although this is not the case, I am simply saying that it is incomprehensible that we continue to have this authorisation bureaucracy, for example with white cheek geese, which is becoming more and more difficult, and it seems that nothing is going to succeed. I would hope that this authorisation bureaucracy and the associated other administrative obstacles will be addressed quickly, because it is for the benefit of all of us, as domestic food can be produced and our own health protected at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u55	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u56	Madam President! It is very important that we have good food legislation in Finland and thus safe food. It is good that the legislation is being reformed and that control is being reformed here too. But Mr Hoskonen also pointed out that this aspect of bureaucracy, which is in this new legislation, should be reasonable. I myself was once an agricultural secretary in the Upper Pirkanmaa region, and when, in the 1990s, attempts were made to make these small food shops in rural areas, then at least the requirements were the same as those of the larger food industry: there was to be chromium and tile everywhere to make the production facilities work. To the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry: are the regulations still as tough for the smallest food companies as they are for the largest? At least sometimes it's unreasonable to ask for chrome and tile everywhere in these smaller ones. However, they have that level of hygiene and food safety and requirements can be achieved anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u57	At the end of this debate, Minister Leppä, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u58	Madam President! Thank you for the good comments. There is a very unanimous message from everyone. Let me answer the first question. In other words, Mr Pierainen asked where the limit is, for example, for small-scale fisheries. The activities of the small-scale food sector with an annual turnover of less than EUR 15000 and the associated risks are limited in terms of food safety are not covered by this levy. In other words, that limit has been set at EUR 15,000 in this bill. Well, then, all of you speakers, ladies and gentlemen, paid attention to exports and export opportunities. Finnish food, it is premium food, and we also have a great opportunity here to promote exports. Let's do that job together, all of us. Everything comes from a reliable, safe, traceable, antibiotic-free, pharmaceutical residue-free food and its raw materials. Here we go. And there is certainly a demand for this on the world market, especially in premium products, and that is what we are aiming for. This will also enable the sector to grow. We do not eat more here in Finland, but growth is certainly available in the world, and this is also what the government is aiming for through its export promotion measures. And one thing that has also been mentioned here in many speeches is the issue of digitality. We specifically need new digital operating models to be able to verify and demonstrate the quality of our production and, at the same time, to operate on that world market with these verifications. That is why we need, for example, its broadband and photo fibre for every company in this country. It's obvious. It is true, then, that there is one sensitivity here, and it is these areas of domestic peace which are connected, as Mr Räsänen said here, especially those home-bakers and catering companies, and this has, of course, already been carefully sought to get and bring up this proposal. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u59	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 1/2021 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u60	Mr President! This report was the subject of a wide-ranging expert consultation in the Committee on Finance, and eight specialised committees also gave their own opinions in a significant way. This whole package is also an important information package on the direction in which this recovery package has been sought by the various parties, and it will hopefully also be used for the ministerial group, which will further refine this work. The report therefore includes Finland's sustainable growth programme, which sets out national priorities for the use of the EU Recovery Instrument and criteria for selecting the investments and reform packages to be financed. The programme itself is still very general, but it will be accompanied by a more detailed national recovery and recovery plan setting out, among other things, investment and reform targets and their costs and timing. The initial plan has been promised to be submitted to the Commission in mid-March and formal in April this year. A week ago, the ministerial working group has also specified the content of the programme in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase productivity, increase employment rates, speed up access to care and promote regional, social and gender equality. According to the report, Finland’s maximum amount is estimated to be EUR 3.1 billion, but according to the latest estimates it has fallen to around EUR 2.7 billion. This is due to the fact that the magnitude of the economic shock is one of the distribution criteria and Finland's economic growth has suffered less than estimated and feared from the coronavirus pandemic. The amount of EU funding is known to be clear only in summer 22, as it will be affected by economic developments last year and this year. Finland is a net contributor to the recovery package in euro, and the recovery package is therefore not the best solution for Finland. However, the Committee feels that the impact cannot be assessed only through a contribution, but rather the effectiveness of funding and the success of Finland in creating new growth and long-term growth potential. The simultaneous and parallel recovery of EU Member States will also increase the effectiveness of actions and the conditions for growth in all Member States. In fact, Finland’s economy may have a significant impact through the recovery and recovery efforts of other countries. In addition, similar efforts, e.g. on the green transition, are more effective than fragmented national efforts. The Commission estimates that the EU's real GDP would at best be up to 2% higher than without a recovery package. The committee considers the criteria for the programme to be a good starting point and stresses in particular the effectiveness of the projects. In order to achieve systemic changes, effectiveness must be a key criterion for prioritising investments and reforms. Further preparation must therefore be based on clear priorities and focus on effective and sufficiently large and well-targeted entities. According to the report, the programme includes six priorities which highlight, inter alia, projects affecting skills, employment, competitiveness, combating climate change, net emission reductions, strengthening the circular economy and the sustainability of public finances. These priorities are in order, and I would like to make a few comments on each one. Firstly, the focus on education, research and innovation: The Committee welcomes the fact that the development needs related to education and research and innovation have been clearly highlighted, as Finland has lost its leading international investment in education productivity and RD investment. In addition to weakened R & D efforts, there are concerns about the structural change in the economy, which is accelerating due to the pandemic, which will speed up the need for new services, products and new skills. It is therefore necessary to increase investment in knowledge and R & D and to ensure that the actions selected strengthen the long-term growth potential and the conditions for economic renewal. New services and products are created only on the basis of new knowledge and as a result of the work of skilled people. The committee believes that education, knowledge and research are important in all priority areas and that it is justified to take them into account permeably in all priorities in the same way as green growth and digitalisation, and this is what the ministerial group seems to have done in its new review. The Committee stresses the importance of integrating creative sectors, culture and the field of events into the allocation of funding for recovery and stresses that they support many of the objectives of the programme. We also refer to and stress the European Parliament's resolution on the use of 2% for this purpose. In the Committee's view, the second priority, the green transition, has rightly been outlined in the report as a key element in the reform of the EU's recovery instrument, which is a cross-cutting principle for the implementation of other priorities. A well-targeted corona resuscitation can serve as a lever for large-scale ecological restructuring and at the same time support employment and economic growth. The Committee welcomes the fact that at least 50% of the Finnish programme will be allocated to the green transition investment and reform packages, even though the EU has set 37% lower. At the same time, this supports the Government Programme's guidelines on the objective of carbon neutrality and the halting of biodiversity loss. The market for clean solutions is growing at an accelerating pace in the world, so it is possible to allocate resources to strengthening the economic renewal and export potential of Finnish companies based on low-carbon solutions. In line with the report, the most effective is to focus efforts on reducing major greenhouse gas emissions, such as energy system change, industrial reform and investment, energy efficiency of the building stock and heating systems, and low carbon solutions for communities and transport. The committee stresses that choices on sectoral reform measures should be made on the basis of Finland's strengths, international market potential, effectiveness and researched knowledge. On the transport routes, the Committee welcomes the fact that the report has highlighted the digitalisation of rail transport, which makes it possible to improve energy efficiency and to create conditions for the attractiveness and smooth operation of rail transport. We also remind you that the existing network has plenty of fast-start traffic flow and development areas that improve Finland's competitiveness. The Committee considers it important that the JTF Fund for a fair transition is widely used in Finland for the targets it allows to make an effective contribution to the green transition. It has already been agreed to support compensatory investments in reducing the use of peat energy, but similar needs may exist throughout Finland from other transitions to low carbon and related negative effects. Priority 3, securing Finland’s international competitiveness, which is also a cross-cutting theme for all priorities, is important to maximise leverage, focus in particular on areas with high export potential, and support sectoral export promotion programmes and ecosystems. As far as digitalisation is concerned, the Committee agrees with the report's approach and notes that raising the level of the digital environment plays a very important role in improving productivity development in Finland and increasing international competitiveness. It refers to nationwide communications connections and also to measures to strengthen the real-time economy as a whole in all sectors, in particular services. The guidelines of the report on the functioning of the labour market under Priority 5 also receive the support of the Committee on Finance, as well as strengthening access to social and health care services and increasing cost-effectiveness, which is a priority 6. The committee has added a debate on follow-up to its report and then concludes with a proposal for a position: ‘The Commission does not have to take note First of all, Parliament requires that the focus of the selection of investment and reform targets is on the effectiveness, leverage and cost-effectiveness of the operations, strengthening Finland's international competitiveness. Secondly, Parliament requires that, alongside green growth and digitalisation, education, knowledge and research, development and innovation efforts are taken into account across all priorities. And thirdly, Parliament requires that further work be carried out to ensure that the objectives and the indicators supporting their monitoring are working properly and that the monitoring of the implementation of the programme is otherwise organised in a comprehensive and transparent manner.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u61	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u62	Madam President! All credit to the committees, officials and experts who have worked on the sustainable growth agenda with enthusiasm. You've spent so much time and effort on this. After all this, however, it feels as if you find yourself in a nightmare in a chemistry class, the subject of which the teacher declares the conversion of lead into gold. The subject of the nightmare is that everyone seems to take it seriously. We are told that the objective of limiting global warming to 1.5°C means reducing the carbon footprint by 90%. Whatever is done in production and transport, a 90% reduction also means a 10% reduction in consumption. We haven't been told this. In its current form, the green transition is a technical economic alchemy, where large and rapid cuts in consumption and carbon footprint are immediately transformed into jobs and economic growth. All we need are the magic words: 'just transition'. Why don't you ask the peat farm? The truth gives a small impression of what the fall in consumption caused by the interest rate has done to employment and the economy. This decline in consumption is a small initial adjustment of the green shift. In fact, the carbon neutrality objectives of the Government Programme mean either one of the following: (1) either companies and consumers must pay significantly more for the same commodity or activity, or (2) to avoid additional expenditure or, under regulatory constraints, they must invest earlier and more than they would have done otherwise. There is no real alternative to huge additional bills. For example: The district heating customer pays either increased taxes on the old energy source or the premature exchange and investment costs of the new energy source. In practice, he pays more for the same amount of energy than before, which is out of his other consumption. The same logic applies, for example, to goods and passenger transport: the same performance increases costs. In sales speeches of the sustainable growth programme, Finland innovates the commodities of the green transition that we sell to the rest of the world. In other words, the rest of the world also pays itself sick for the green shift, cutting off its other consumption. The plan is for the rest of the world to buy their economic assets from us. Consumption and entrepreneurship can be directed by threatening regulation and increasing taxes or charges. In calculating terms, it may be worthwhile to invest in order to avoid future additional costs. However, no revenue-for-all investment in this kind of investment will produce. Madam President! A genuine and necessary solution to environmental problems requires a stronger economy. The current green transition will destroy the economy very quickly. You can't get gold out of lead. Jobs will not be created by increasing costs, reducing consumption and replacing productive investments in the 40-100-year retention period with investments in the 10-20-year maintenance period, which are unproductive, incomplete and soon to expire. Finland should now invest in technologies where winners can be found in 10 to 30 years' time, not paralyze its economy with green resuscitation for the next couple of years. In accordance with the Committee on Finance’s objection 1, the following statement is adopted in response to the report: ‘The Commission requires the Government to draw up a report on sustainable growth in Finland, which will divest itself of the over-the-counter climate programme and invest in support for Finland’s international competitiveness, the most efficient export of products, the strengthening of employment and the implementation
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u63	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u64	Madam President! In the Government Programme, the following is recorded: ‘A minimum of half of the energy consumption will be used in the year2030. As part of the overall reform of energy taxation, the necessary changes in peat taxation will be assessed in order to achieve the target for peat in 2030.’ It's a direct quote. However, the systematic dismantling and destruction of peat production is already under way, at the best of times. And that is what we have been experiencing right now, at a time when security of supply is being threatened: we cannot make heating work throughout our country. Minister Ohio gave the peat a cold ride while visiting Kankaanpää on February 6. A direct quote from Minister Ohio’s interview in Kankaanpää, District: ‘I am of the opinion that in the future no non-emission-free forms of production will be used in energy production. Neither peat nor wood is a sustainable option.’ ‘For the use of peat in Norway. It should not even be used as a growing ground for gardens.” The Left Left Party Party also wants to discipline the peat industry. A direct quote from the Municipal Election Programme: ‘In municipal energy companies,the use of coal and peat will have to So this is from the municipal election program of the Left Alliance. I would like to know how the representatives of the centre feel about these departures from the government. Do you want to be part of a government that, through its actions, wants to suppress living in rural areas? So, in the sustainable growth programme under discussion today, JTF, the fair transition from the fund, does not promise much to peat production. A small quote from there: ‘Money cannot directly direct compensation to entrepreneurs for loss of equipment or production. On the other hand, the conversion of peat enterprises into more low-carbon solutions can be promoted by supporting research and innovation.’ It's a bit of a freezing ride for entrepreneurs and workplaces in the peat industry. Mr President, I think we should make a brief statement on the subject of peat. Are you aware of what peat means to our country and what could it mean in the future? I'll tell you what. Energy peat protects our self-sufficiency and security of supply. Now it has been replaced by a cross-border application. Foreign actors thank you, Finnish workers do not thank you, not to mention the climate. I don't think you have any real knowledge of the real impact of this shutdown on emissions. By the way, peat burns more clean than it does — so much so from its pollution. Domestic horticulture products and tree nurseries growing in growing peat — the same tree seedlings that volunteers from 4H associations, among others, plant in our forests a total of 150 million seedlings a year. It is the impressive climate work and world-famous Finnish forest management. Do you also want to drive down the plant garden sector with the current decisions? There is no substitute product available for growing peat, and it is not worth raising up coconut grain from rain forests on ships. Well, that would be a hell of a choice. Dry peat — now Minister Leppä has gone away, but I give him this message — guarantees the antibiotic freedom of our livestock production. When he referred here earlier to this antibiotic freedom, it is in the form of dry peat that this is a very important part. Should we stop that, too, or are we planning a total shutdown of animal production? Cold ride to the countryside on this one, too. There are already many high-tech products available from peat, i.e. high-tech products. Among other things, we in northern Finland in Karvia have made high-innovative, superior sound insulation plates. Peat also works as a raw material for the cosmetics industry, and it has built furniture and even nests for the Saimaan norp. One third of Finland’s land area is peat-based. So we live in peat. The debate has largely only revolved around energy peat, but these other peat production products have been neglected. This is a huge development and export potential that we will lose if we continue to go down with the same enthusiasm that we have had so far. In other countries, peat has no such negative reputation as we do. In this protest, we Finns of Peru suggest that peat can be used as a fuel alongside a chip, that is, its 20 percent and tax-free. In addition to keeping the combustion boilers cleaner, this solution would ensure the continuation of the entire peat production chain. Here in Finland, we must stop short-sighted politics in terms of peat, this brown gold in our soil. Mr President, in the name of the green transition, you are driving down the people who are important to us, and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u65	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u66	Madam President! Good Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We are very critical of the government's sustainable growth programme. The range of instruments proposed in the Sustainable Growth Programme is too broad and the measures are not compatible with the objectives set. Indeed, the report is essentially a repetition of the objectives of the left-wing government government programme. We have set out four principles for targeting Finland's recovery of the EU's recovery instrument: Firstly, the funds must be concentrated into impressive entities. Secondly, the vast majority of funds must be directed towards raising the level of competence. Thirdly, funds must be allocated to effective, well-founded R & D projects. Finally, funds must be used to support the recovery from the crisis caused by the interest rate in the short term and the growth of long-term production potential in line with the principles of sustainable recovery. The implementation of the Government's proposal will lead to an inappropriate channelling of funds to a number of isolated, mixed projects. The overall economic impact will be minor or even negligible. The resources of the Recovery Instrument should therefore be concentrated in the national programme as effective entities to support structural reforms. Marin’s left-wing government organised a comprehensive tour of Finland under municipal elections. Based on the tour, the program has gathered a wide range of overlapping goals and means that are compatible with almost all human activities. The range of objectives and means will lead to a fragmentation of funds into a large number of small, separate projects. If the programme were genuinely to achieve effectiveness, the objectives should be limited and the funds allocated to well-founded, genuinely effective entities, in line with expert recommendations. The Government's programme will therefore not achieve the objectives of a short-term recovery. The effectiveness of the Government's programme to strengthen the growth potential of the economy is therefore negligible. The Government has chosen to promote private, market-based business activities. Taxation is completely excluded from the choice of means. Instead, the government prioritises public spending, even though our problem is precisely the low level of private investment, the low functioning labour market, high taxation, low foreign investment and low productivity. We believe that the vast majority of funds should be directed towards developing skills and raising the level of competence. Funds should be concentrated on promoting significant, well-founded R & D projects. We are in favour of supporting the green transition and speeding up the reform of the economic structure, but I would like to highlight one example of concern about the abandonment of uncontrolled energy peat. The phasing out of energy peat should be done in a controlled manner and with a sufficient transitional period to enable both peat entrepreneurs and energy companies to prepare for change. When we give up something, we have a responsibility to care for the affected areas. In our view, a fair transition fund could provide hundreds of millions of euros to support entrepreneurs in the government's energy-taxing regions. Mr President! We are in favour of an ambitious development of the EU. European cooperation is still needed to improve the standard of living of Finns and strengthen the international position of our country as part of the Western community of values. However, the plans presented by the Government’s Sustainable Growth Programme with the overall conditions for financing the Recovery Facility and the government’s direction towards the development of EU institutions are seriously flawed. At the moment, it is also unclear what Finland’s recovery from the recovery fund will ultimately be, so that the plans presented here can be radically changed. We therefore do not support the Government's plan for Finland's sustainable growth programme. Therefore, Mr President, I object to the proposal for a position: ‘The Commission requires the Government to draw up a report on the sustainability of Finland’s growth programme,because the format presented for the sustainable growth programme is too broad and the measures are not At the moment, it is also unclear what Finland’s recovery from the recovery fund will ultimately be, so that the plans presented here can be radically changed. We therefore do not support the Government’s plan for Finland’s sustainable growth programme.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long list of speakers, but I ask: do we want to have a debate on this point? — It appears that there is a desire to have a debate. And the debate will begin with Mr Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u68	Madam President! Excellent speeches all calm down at this beginning, and many of them will probably have such good development targets, what we need for the development of Finnish business activities for this growth career in Finland. Of course, these broad lines, which the chairman of the Committee on Finance also raised on the report of our Committee on Finance, are precisely the key themes, which means that this increase in innovation is very important for Finland, our industrial regions. Let us now see in Southern and Western Finland that we can make the wheels of industrial activity run even faster and then also make resources available for this increase in our export potential. That is the innovation issue: the government programme also has this 4%, and it is very important that we achieve that level of innovation there too. To this energy issue: This JTF is also involved. It is a long-term transition, and quite rightly how Koskela suggested that we need the right, quick measures, including peat and domestic energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u69	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u70	Honorable Speaker! Yes, of course we are opposed to this recovery package, of course, or we cannot accept this programme, the sustainable growth programme. It mainly wonders if you want to raise one thing about the content of the programme itself, the size of these climate measures. If half of the whole package is put into climate action, it wonders what is left of all these other measures, how many hundred million can be put into them. Is it not true, if I calculated correctly, that about three and a half million million could always be put into a single area, that this could have been done through the ordinary supplementary budgetary procedure, and that this is the small sum of millions over a few years, but when we see that this package is still being distributed over a few years? I'm just asking why this is such a big part of the climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u71	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u77	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u78	Mr President! The programme for sustainable growth is a joint electoral programme of government parties aimed at raising lower support. The program is full of good and beautiful, mostly nice things. The loan money is sprinkled there and here depending on which back-up operator is a bit more able to listen. In the opinion of the Assembly, the overall economic impact of the programme from the point of view of recovery will be limited. Such implementation will lose the opportunity to take genuinely effective action to reform and recover the Finnish economy. So the distribution of loan money is easy, and the recipients will be happy. However, in the opinion of the Assembly, this is not a sufficient basis for supporting the programme. As a result, we have raised an objection. I therefore support Mr Heinonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u79	Here I say to the honourable Member that a statement of support must be made in the actual speech, not in the reply. — And now, Mrs Kiljunen, Mrs Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u80	Madam President! The programme for sustainable growth has received a very positive response from experts in a number of committees, including the Committee on Budgets. The recovery package is an opportunity for Finland and Finns. The recovery package will enable Finland to strengthen employment, competitiveness and the restructuring of society in this difficult health and economic situation. We can focus on effective reforms that can act as levers for, for example, launching research and development and joint enterprise projects. One good example of this was the acquisition of synthetic fuels by the Committee on Finance of power-to-xprocess in Finland and international markets. This is one example of how we can scale clean energy products in Finland, for example, to international markets and thus strengthen Finland's employment and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u81	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u82	Madam President! Unlike here on the left side of the hall, I am concerned about the effectiveness of this government programme in terms of the growth potential of the economy and its strengthening. The government has excluded the promotion of private, market-based business activities, as well as taxation, tax recovery is completely excluded from the choice of means. In Sweden, for example, the recovery instrument will be incorporated into the budget in such a way as to make it possible to reduce taxes as part of this budget. Instead, the government prioritizes public spending, and when there has also been a lot of discussion about this peat, these government activities have indeed been a blow to peat entrepreneurs, to peat producers and machine operators,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u83	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u84	Mr President! Yes, climate change is an essential point for Finland as a whole. Global warming in the Arctic region is twice as fast as the average anywhere else and therefore affects indigenous peoples in the Arctic region, which are also on the Finnish side, such as the Saami, directly for example, by moving from different parasites to the north all the time and spreading diseases such as borreliosis. They do not yet exist in Lapland, but this warming and this process may one day be the case that ticks start spreading borreliosis to reindeer. Well, that's the problem. And this is just an example. That is why we need to ensure global warming in Finland too, so that the whole Arctic region can continue to be well and live and there can be people there as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u85	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with the previous speaker that climate change is true. It's just that we have different ways of doing things. I was looking at the article by Professor Ulla Lehmijoki of the University of Helsinki from Yle a few years ago. One per cent of population growth causes a 1% cut in emissions. According to him, population growth is a question of the fate of mankind. I can't find a word here about the matter of fate. The UN has estimated that at its worst, the number of people on earth will double in the next few decades. Well, here's where we can figure out what to influence. The second question is that, within the EU, for example, we have this unfair application of the Paris climate agreement. Here, too, Finland is doing the third largest job in Europe in all the Member States. The targets of the biggest polluters are almost zero. Why do you not influence, government, these things where there is
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u87	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u88	Mr President! The Government has continued to prepare for this since the report was issued, and this response from Parliament will be taken into account. These three points, which the committee called for, have actually already been taken into account in the further work. We have concentrated the six priorities into four pillars: green transition, digitality, work and knowledge and health promotion. Research and development and international competitiveness will then combine all four of these. So this feedback will be carefully taken into account. In protesting, Mr Ranne said that the green transition is suffocating the economy and destroying the economy quickly. Sometimes it would be good to discuss whether this is really the case. The global economy, if the interest rate is cleaned out, is growing precisely because there is a great deal of investment in the green transition around the world. In Finland, too, recent investments — biorefinery in Kemi and the most recent decision, an investment of 500 million in the wind farm in Lestijärvi without public investment — are a green transition. They are growing our economy, creating jobs. I just read the latest news that early in the year the share of sales of new diesel cars has fallen to less than 10 per cent, and various charging hybrids and electric cars are almost 20 per cent of new shops. I don't think this is going to destroy the economy in any way either. This destruction of the economy is a strange claim. Finally, the Group has a strong focus on research and development. The government is aware of that. Last autumn, you suggested that perhaps one billion could be used to capitalise universities. We have good experiences with the capitalization of universities,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u89	Congressman Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u90	Mr President! When we talk about this sustainable growth programme, we talk about a huge package. It is precisely because it is not unlimited, although it is very large, and because it is not unlimited, it is certainly not enough to solve all our problems. That is why we have stressed this focus and these competence measures. Instead of fragmentation, funds should be concentrated on such impressive entities that we can support structural reforms. The Coalition Party has set out its own principles for the use of funds in Finland. In our opinion, the majority should be focused on raising the level of competence, and in this we would particularly invest in higher education institutions. And yes, we have considered this line, and this would be good for Finland. A significant part should be allocated to well-founded R & D projects for sustainable growth, and the programme should focus on short-term growth and on improving long-term production potential. Finland needs to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u91	Time. — My representative, Mr Kulmun.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u92	Madam President! Is that why, in this Chamber, it would have been a joy if these Finnish recovery funds had been put into, for example, an important development policy as such and even this curbing of population growth, to which Mr Meri referred here. Of course, there are other channels for it, but think about it, if we had put them there too, what would the Finns have thought of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u95	Representative Risikko
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u96	Madam President! We are discussing Finland's sustainable growth programme here, and I am distracted by this debate because we really do not know how much money will come for us in the finals. Then, frankly, I have been somewhat disturbed by the fact that there are people in the provinces telling me that ‘this is a lot of money, what they are doing’. I, too, have been asked about two differentcountries that‘there is something that I do not like this type of activity because it is not said that this is the end-game minus that is now being distributed. But if this comes and we have to think about these subjects, then the coalition has focused on education and research, just as Mr Vanhanen said, and because part of the argument is that now that we have seen the importance of the knowledge studied as a basis for decision-making: how quickly can vaccines be obtained, for example, if we have researched knowledge and research communities. In other words, research and training,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u97	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u98	Madam President! There are many targets and there are many good projects, as we in the Committee on Budgets heard where this money could be spent. When you look at the total, if you have less than 3 billion available, it is not enough after all, so this is to be placed in such a way that it has an impact. It has been mentioned here in many speeches, as has research and development. Then again, the timeliness of this: This is not such that this long training courses can be created. This is four years, and that's it. This must be taken into account here, and I think that the ministerial working group has done a very good job of focusing these issues on research, competitiveness and then innovation. We currently have very good projects on the side of biofuels, for example, or on the side of these electronic fuels. At least we have to export them and digitize them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u99	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u100	Mr President! The public debate on recovery grants in Finland has received shades that suggest that many people think that the money in question is so-called windfall. It is, however, our own money, even though it is formally EU money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u105	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u106	Madam President! Unfortunately, this left-wing government is perhaps conducting the most expensive municipal election campaign in the history of Finland. Your ministers and many of you MPs went around the provinces telling how money comes from doors and windows. 3.2 billion was split in seconds. I think it's more than that. Well, it is now clear that the recovery is 500 million less than originally had, but you will not tell us where to take it away before the municipal elections. There many in the provinces are now waiting and being severely disappointed after this. If such a recovery fund were to be made, the money should, of course, be put into research, development, the strengthening of skills. Now it seems that way and it seems that, and so it is, President-in-Office, it is, that we are simply continuing to pay for the promises of government programmes for children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u107	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u108	Mr Heinonen will be able to ask who goes to the municipal election campaign with these tools. I think that this is a very balanced presentation of future investment, education, research and, in particular, the opportunities for growth and recovery. In the provinces this challenge has been strongly met, and there is an enthusiastic boom and a lot of investment is starting to start and is being prepared and expected that this will finally be achieved in this Chamber. Quite worrying messages from business representatives are that is there a brake on the right side of the road, given the need for this growth and recovery in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u109	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u110	Thank you, Madam President. I can't stop taking advantage of this opportunity: An hour ago, I received a letter from a peat machine entrepreneur. For 40 years he has worked in his field, and now we are faced with the fact that 12 workers are going to the kilometer factory and that his life's work has now been wasted, all his possessions. He has therefore written to me, which I shall now address to the Minister for Finance: ‘Irequired the State to compensate us for the direct damage of EUR 500000 and to call on the bank and ask for a delay in the course of the proceedings,until matters are ordered and reimbursed by the State. Debts have come from the construction of production halls.” — What do I say to this entrepreneur? Can I have the Minister of Finance's answer now that the spike is open?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u111	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u112	Yes, Madam President, having listened to the contributions made by the Assembly, it seems to me that they already know where these projects are going to be put. Mr Heinonen spoke very well about how these are such overlapping means and numerous small projects, that he has certainly had this municipal debate with perhaps some regional federations, but I do not think that the people of the region are much concerned about this distribution of EU money there. [Laughter] I would like to ask Mr Räsäse when he referred to the fact that the private sector has somehow been left out — but in this programme we are talking strongly about research, innovation ecosystems, industry — what he referred to in this speech. What did you mean by that this private side has somehow been left out?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u113	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u114	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would have liked a minister or a former minister, a representative. From the corners, answer my questions, which docent Ulla Lehmijoki, for example, regards as the fate of mankind when it comes to climate change. As I said, we agree that climate change is an important issue and must be addressed, but I would like you to be on the same lines as the scientists, to influence where it will produce the best effects, as I said, for example, that 1% of the population will increase emissions by 1%. The UN estimates that even at its worst we will double population growth by 2100 years, and that all this fuss, which we are about to do with motorists and the peat around here, will be all tinkering. I find it arrogant that you don't answer these types. The second is this burden-sharing agreement, which is unfair to Finland and also has a weak impact. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u115	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u116	Mr President! That is the direct answer: By measuring the sustainability of the earth, by measuring how different nations use the resources of the earth, the countries with the highest population growth today actually consume the planet three times less than, for example, the Finnish population and six times less than, for example, the American population. In that sense, this imbalance in consumption must be taken into account. Another thing worth taking into account here is that Finland's development money, which goes to girls' education, is perhaps the best and most fair way to deal with this issue of population growth, because then we get the girls educated and to work, and then they carry children at the age of children and later fewer children. In that sense, we have taken these matters into account and we will do them in a fair way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u117	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u118	Mr President! All I can do is share that view that we need to invest in girls' education, but those investments in developing countries are not now coming out of this stimulus package. The expectations for the package are great, as has been heard in this debate in the Chamber, and that is why I think this committee's emphasis on effectiveness as a key criterion is very important, as well as the restrictions that have already been placed on this issue in the EU, namely the commitment to implement the Paris climate agreement and the do no harm or do no significant harm principle, namely that these projects, which are funded, cannot simultaneously be harmful to biodiversity or the fight against climate change. I would also like to draw attention to the emphasis that has not yet been expressed in the debate, namely the cultural sector, the creative sector. In this regard, the committee also committed itself to this commitment by the European Parliament, i.e. 2%, at least in these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u119	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u120	Madam President! In my opinion, the priorities of Finland’s sustainable growth programme are good and correct investments. The overall reforms aim to achieve long-term positive effects. It is important that we look to the long future now. Funding is for rapid recovery but, above all, for reform, and we need reform in this time period, indeed. Investing enables you to get and create an independent Finland for work and study. That's what we need. This is also the case in the city center. We can also create public services close to people by increasing digital skills and creating broadband connections around Finland. Rapid infrastructure projects are very important. Mr President! Mr Koskela raised the issue of peat: I hope you will be familiar with Minister Lintilän
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u121	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u122	Madam President! I would have asked Minister Vanhanen if the European Union had mechanisms to ensure the right use of money in all the Member States. This must not lead to a dredging post office. It is also important to understand that Finland is a long way from the market, so every political decision that weakens the competitiveness of Finnish companies will certainly be seen as a reduction in investment in Finland and thus as lost jobs. A very bad example of this is the huge increase in taxes on fuels and the uncontrolled dismantling of peat by the government. We must remember that the government programme rests entirely on the 75% employment rate. Only high-quality education and research and innovation know-how can Finland succeed. The learning gap between boys and girls and exclusion must be addressed. Human and economic problems arising from these are unsustainable. And finally, only a successful private sector
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u123	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u124	Madam President! I think it is very important that a key element of the sustainable growth agenda is to accelerate the green transition and the transformation of the energy sector through innovative solutions based on new technologies. We need a green transition in support of economic restructuring. It should be a cross-cutting theme that goes through all six priorities and does not remain just one sub-heading. By means of the green shift, contrary to what is claimed here, we will increase employment and the economy, while at the same time contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the achievement of the objective of carbon neutrality. At this stage, the objectives of the programme, the general criteria and the content of the priorities are outlined in general terms, contrary to what Mr Heinonen said. In the future, it will be important to focus on large entities with greater impact on individual projects, and the greatest impact will be achieved by mobilising private investment through the programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u126	Madam President! I personally believe that in Finland these funds will be used in a relatively sensible way. The Government's intentions are well-founded and, in view of the considerations put forward by the Coalition Party, how even more emphasis should be placed on research, education and innovation, which, according to the Government, are a guiding principle in the government's intentions, I believe that these funds will be used rationally in Finland. Unfortunately, I am not as convinced of the other Member States of the Union, which is why I am asking a little more than Mr Koponen asked here. I know there is a mechanism that the Commission and then the Council will review the plans of the various countries, but what, Minister Vanhanen, really are the opportunities of other countries such as Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u128	I will give three more replies to this and then the Minister will take the floor. Then we'll close this debut part at this point. In other words, the representatives Könttä, Kivisaari, Koskinen, each reply, and then Minister Vanhanen, 3 minutes. — Representative Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u129	Thank you, Madam President. In my opinion, the recent experience of this speech was well-heard of the responsible line and the good things that have been put forward by the Coalition Party, such as research and product development, education. I think they are priorities that should be heard. Just as the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, says, it is good that these are taken into account, and it is hoped that the Assembly will support this whole in due course. But I can’t help but wonder in part about that basic Finnish line when I feel that the biggest problem with this green transition is that name. If we were to talk more about advanced technology, we would think that there would be support there. I would like to ask Minister Vanhanen: when you assess future economic growth, does it rely on the development of products and production chains that produce more emissions or less emissions? Does it rely on more energy-efficient or energy-intensive development? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u130	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u131	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz gave the floor as a Member of Parliament when he said that in Finland these funds will be used in a sensible and elegant way. It had understanding and trust in the Finnish social system. I also believe that the production of new knowledge and the strengthening of skills in Finland's sustainable growth programme, which is included in the report, play an important role, even in the crucial role, and I believe that they have been reasonably well taken into account. The priorities of this programme, i.e. training and research, are a prerequisite for the realisation of all other priorities. In other words, all these actions require new skills. This need for continuous learning also
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u132	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u133	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz and the previous speakers of the Assembly and Christian Democrats have referred to this objection as a somewhat surprising statement: ‘The effectiveness of the government programme to strengthen the growth potential of the economy remains unremarked. The Government has opted for the promotion of private, market-based business activities.’ It is precisely in the government's plans and, in particular, in this report from the Committee on Finance that this leverage effect is highlighted that the largest possible private sector investment must be mobilised, with the efforts of this country and the EU. We must have in mind that this EUR 2.7 billion will be used to spin the total investment of between EUR 6 billion and EUR 7 billion in private money and also this national investment along with that EU funding. It seems that the Coalition Party here wants to say in advance that this has been misfired before the fire-extinguishing measures have been taken, and the True Finns would prevent the whole fire truck from being put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u134	Minister Vanhanen, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u135	Mr President! Of course, perhaps the greatest difficulty lies in the fact that we had to use this same programme after this European economic collapse and to revive the economy as quickly as possible, which means that money must quickly be mobilised and that it must be done in a way that genuinely creates new things in the long term, increases knowledge, improves our technologies, and these two must be combined. Clean investment in R & D and knowledge will not have this rapid stimulus effect. That is why compromises have to be made in these areas. The control that Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Kopra raised is extremely important. It will be a huge job for the Commission. For our part, we are not seeking any flexibility in state aid rules or others, but we are calling for it, and at the meeting of finance ministers, for example, each time I mention this, we must ensure that this maintains fair competition and does not distort competition. Much needs to be invested in monitoring and monitoring. Congressman Meri asked about burden sharing. In fact, the shares that we have set as a target for reducing emissions to increase renewable energy are largely what Finland itself has set itself, because it is seen as an advantage for us. The fact that we ourselves produce energy from renewable energy instead of imported oil or coal or natural gas is an economic advantage for us is employment benefit. It is absolutely no disadvantage to us. An important debate on this private role, which was raised by Mr Räsänen: perhaps in these preparations, almost the most within the government, it is precisely how to create mechanisms that help and promote private money. Just as the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, has just said, we need to mobilise billions of private money. Otherwise, this does not fulfil this purpose of resuscitation, and these priorities, which have been set here, are precisely aimed at this. Finally, an important point: A significant part of this effort will be devoted to improving employment services, strengthening skills and also improving social and health care. These are European recommendations and they are self-conscious, we also have weaknesses, and that is why this package will not only be short-term from the point of view of industry but will also focus on addressing the weaknesses that we obviously have in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u136	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u137	Mr President! The Finnish Sustainable Growth Programme aims to contribute to the rapid recovery of the economy and to accelerate the reform of business structures and public services. Of course, the crisis caused by the interest rate has to be overcome, but the pre-corona problems have not disappeared. Controlling climate change, raising employment rates and balancing public finances are still ahead of us. Finland also urgently needs structural reforms. The extension of the compulsory education age, the reform of family leave, are vigorous examples of these, but the line must also be followed by the reform of social security. President! In this context, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance not only for the hard work it has done, but also for the fact that it has also brought a claim to Parliament in its opinion that education, skills and research efforts must be taken seriously into account in Finland's sustainable growth programme. This shows that the committee is aware of the situation and that it is also aware of the importance of the situation. It is a worrying fact that Finland has lost its top international investment in education, skills and RD investment. Everyone understands that securing international competitiveness, strengthening digitalisation, the green transition does not fall from heaven, but requires people with qualifications, skills, research and training to do so. There is no growth, let alone sustainable growth, without knowledge. President! A word about the future, too. Society cannot afford a forgotten generation. Well-being young people are a prerequisite for sustainable growth in Finland. Schools and educational institutions have survived the crisis quite well, not without wounds, but nonetheless. We also need further action to catch up with the learning debt of the interest rate. We need to get those who dropped out of school back on the school bench. Too many young people live outside the home in child welfare. In the case of these young people, it is essential to take care of after-care by supporting their adulthood and transition to work, but it is more important than post-care to step so that we can support children, young people and parents when the flames do not hit the roof. As early as possible, support is often the way of the least sorrow, so simple it is. The integrity of society is supported by ensuring the correction of the care debt caused by the interest rate and increasing the faith of young people in the future. It has been very wise of the government to increase the starting points for higher education by about ten thousand. It's a great future for the government. President! Although we are now looking for rapid recovery, and I understand this logic well, we should also have the courage to talk about reform. It is also good to put your eyes far away. What will Finland be like in ten years' time? How do we take a lifespan leap where all the regions and all the people are involved? One of the answers is a multi-seat Finland, where telework and studies play with broadband connections, where people can live where life feels good. It's a seed of sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u138	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u139	Madam President! In his speech, Mr Heinonen gave a good presentation of the joint opposition from the Group of the European People's Party and Christian Democrats to this sustainable growth programme, and I support Mr Heinonen's statement of objection. In this government proposal, the sustainable growth programme, there are a number of projects to be supported in itself, but the problem is that the range of means presented here is too broad and the measures are not compatible with the objectives set. After all, at the moment it is also unclear what Finland’s recovery from the recovery fund will ultimately be, so that the plans presented here can also be radically changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u140	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u141	Madam President! According to the Committee on Finance, it is now essential, in this situation, to use the financing of the recovery instrument effectively and how well Finland succeeds in creating new growth. It has to be said that I find it rather strange that this whole recovery for the government would be some kind of municipal campaign. No one has ordered the corona crisis and the ensuing European-wide economic crisis under municipal elections or any other election. Now, with this common instrument, we will respond to the crisis situation, and if that is responsible action, then we will really think about and look at how best we will deal with this situation and create new growth and strengthen, both at home and at European level, the future of our children and young people to be brighter and brighter. I therefore attach great importance to the fact that one of the priorities is, among other things, to strengthening the quality of social services. It highlights, among other things, the preventive effect of services and the strengthening of prevention, because even now we are all well aware that the situation of children, young people and the elderly, for example, has been very difficult in many places even before the corona crisis. When we invest in preventive services, that is how we will also save society’s money in the long term. The central line is that the sustainable growth programme should reform and export the whole of Finland to the post-corona period, which is certainly not the same as the pre-corona period. Many things are changing, one example being the increase in digitality, and the Centre attaches great importance to the fact that now, with this package, we can, among other things, get broadband connections in order throughout Finland. Workable network connections are needed both in homes and in schools, agriculture and other businesses. That is why it is great that digitality is one of the strong priorities of the Sustainable Growth Programme. We now have the opportunity through these investments to create a Finland of independent work and study, which will benefit us all in both urban and rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u142	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u143	Madam President! Now that we are discussing this sustainable growth programme, I think we should look further away from the coming year. In other words, while we are talking about a rapid recovery of the next few years, we should be able to think about what Finland will look like in ten years' time, because these investment and reform packages, however, aim for long-term positive effects. Above all, it is intended that these investments and reforms support each other and are large and effective entities. For example, this week, when the sustainable growth programme was presented, Mr Vanhanen, said that it was not worth doing what has always been done. In other words, we must look forward with courage, reform through the entities in which the world's greatest future growth potential has been identified. This is therefore not an ordinary additional budget for the state, but an exceptional entity that puts Finland on the road to sustainable growth. When I looked at the opposition's protests, particularly that of the Coalition Party, I was left to think about what this criticism was ultimately based on. According to their protests, the resources of the Recovery Instrument should be allocated in accordance with four principles: ‘Firstly,the reserve shall focus on the effective entities. Secondly, the vast majority of funds must be directed towards raising the level of competence. Thirdly, funds must be allocated to effective, well-founded R & D projects. Finally, funds should be used to support the recovery from the crisis caused by the interest rate in the short term and the growth of long-term production potential in line with the principles of sustainable recovery." All these principles are already being implemented in the programme. There are four pillars: green transition, digitalisation, employment and knowledge, as well as social and health services, impressive entities. Other principles in this respect are also recorded. I was wondering that this criticism, like yesterday's motion of censure, is only relative. There should be ‘more’ or ‘more’. When it comes to criticism, perhaps I miss being more specific. Clear answers were required here yesterday in the Chamber. Now, as in the previous debate, with regard to the opposition, the coalition, it is very clear that the final line is missing, just as this recent debate on peat showed that one representative here is demanding it and this, but the coalition line has been the opposite on a national level. So I would point out from this sustainable growth programme that this package and the palette that have now been prepared have a very great potential for achieving the objectives that have been set. Of course, it still requires a lot of work. And at the end of the day I would like to say just what Mr Aittakumpu raised about these broadband connections, that I would like and wish that, when the ministers are still working on this, they should think very carefully about how, for example, train connections or on-line connections on trains could be improved. It would also facilitate this multi-seat Finland's future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u144	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u145	Mr President! The sustainable growth programme for Finland currently under discussion sets out national priorities for the EU Recovery Instrument and criteria for selecting the investment and reform packages to be financed. The programme before the committees was still very general, but a more detailed recovery and recovery plan is under way. The views of the Committee on Finance on Finland's sustainable growth programme are to be welcomed. Three key statements have been registered by the Committee on Finance: First, the selection of investment and reform targets must focus on the effectiveness, leverage and cost-effectiveness of operations, strengthening Finland’s international competitiveness. Secondly, alongside green growth and digitalisation, there is a need to take education, skills and research priorities into account across all priorities. Thirdly, the committee calls for further work to be carried out to ensure that the objectives and the indicators supporting their monitoring are effective and that the implementation of the programme is monitored in a comprehensive and transparent manner. I would like to point out here a few more aspects highlighted by the Committee on the Future of Europe to complement the previous ones: Firstly, Finland's investment environment must be internationally competitive. The aim must be to have the most stable and predictable operating environment and a resilience society. The Committee on the Future also believes that, although all the measures of the Sustainable Growth Programme must be implemented and implemented immediately, priorities and measures must be decided so that we can achieve results immediately, in the medium term and in the long term. These different time-frame measures must support each other and be consistent with policy. The fastest benefits are the acceleration and scaling of investments already planned or under way. These investments are based on the current precedent. In the medium term, the most important investments will be made in research, development and innovation, education and the development of new pioneering technologies. In the long term, it is a question of structural and systemic changes in society and the economy. However, we must remember that no technology is automatically sustainable, but it is about how it is developed and used for. It should therefore be borne in mind that ethical expertise can also give rise to pioneering and competitiveness, and Finland should also be active in the debate on the ethical use of technology. Like the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on the Future also calls for, or has in fact been calling for, instruments for sustainable development, job-creating growth and the assessment of indicators and progress in the welfare economy. We decision-makers do not have enough information about the state and progress of the welfare economy and sustainable growth, although the welfare economy and sustainable growth are the most important changes of our time. We absolutely must strengthen and ensure the knowledge base for sustainable growth. It is also necessary to make better use of foresight data. For example, the interest rate pandemic had been taken into account in various ways in national and international foresightes several years ago. The Committee on the Future already issued its opinion in 2016. However, there was not enough provision for a pandemic at the practical level. There is also a wealth of foresight data on the green transition and sustainable growth that needs to be better exploited to ensure a more forward-looking approach and to raise the level of ambition. As a last point, I would like to raise the issue of whether we have sufficient competence to operate in an ever-increasing global market. Finland may, and indeed it is, have a pioneering position and competitiveness in many areas, but nevertheless Finland may not always be a favourite in international competition for investments in green transition. That is why Finland must be able to exercise greater lobbying in its EU, foreign and trade policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u146	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u147	Honorable Speaker! First of all, I would like to support the proposal for a position in response to protest 1. We are therefore opposed to this recovery package, so neither can we accept the Government's report as a programme for sustainable growth. It is a little confusing why, first of all, a sustainable growth programme is adopted and only then will the income side of the package be dealt with, namely these new sources of EU income, such as plastic levies and carbon duties. Only then will the Government report on EU policy be discussed. It is said that in the corridors of the EU, everyone only talks about a federal state with a common debt, responsibilities and income. We believe that the first thing we need to do is to have a debate on federal development, then only to reflect on the importance of the recovery package, and then, last but not least, to think about how to target the package. Of course, we have our own timetables according to which these packages must be delivered to the EU, but we are well aware of that. On federal development: We cannot accept that. Finland's independent budgetary powers should not be handed over by a slice to the EU institutions. The resuscitation package in itself is not very resuscitational, as has been pointed out by experts. The report also states that Finland is a net contributor to the recovery package. The package is therefore not optimal for Finland. The claim that the simultaneous recovery of EU countries would affect the usefulness of the package is without solid evidence. For Finland, the benefit would probably be modest and would not cover Finland’s net contribution. A number of EU countries are over-indebted. For some reason, public opinion is that all countries should be able to revive and, if there is no more borrowing capacity, then other countries or ultimately citizens will have to bear the burden of recovery, or at least these Member States will have to bear the cost of recovery, or at least to guarantee it. In fact, the real emergency is that there are anti-EU populists in the South who are expected to rise to power in Italy, for example, if the recovery package does not go through. This could lead to the break-up of the EU area. All of this leads to the EU becoming a debt union and a federal state. Similar new packages are already being planned. And now on to this program itself: It has good objectives in itself, and the changes at the very end took the programme in the right direction. It was not possible to decide whether the Finnish programme was acceptable in general. The programme and the projects to be launched will probably be more quickly prepared and of less value than expected. In conclusion, I would like to conclude with this statement of objection 1: ‘The Commission requires that the Government prepare a report on sustainable growth in Finland, which will divest itself of the oversized climate programme and invest in supporting Finland’s international competitiveness,the most efficient export of existing products,theupgrading of employment and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u148	Minister Vanhanen, reply, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u149	Mr President! It was this process of preparation — the government wanted to submit this report to Parliament in the autumn as early as the preparations had begun, that Parliament and its committees were involved from the outset in this preparation of the Finnish plan. So this is not the final programme that is being discussed and adopted here, but is part of the preparatory process, and Finland will submit its initial plan to the EU in mid-March and the final plan at the end of April. And the government will certainly take into account the comments made by Parliament in its efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u150	Representative Elo — gone. Representative Koponen — gone. Representative Simula — gone. Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u151	Mr President! The sustainable growth programme has been discussed in parliamentary committee work in a variety of ways and in this Chamber in terms of its affordability. The programme is still quite general, but there is a more detailed national recovery and recovery plan, including investment and reform targets and their costs and timing. These plans will be discussed by the Commission and adopted by the Council. The projects to be funded must comply with the Paris climate agreement and the do no significant harm principle. The Committee stresses that reform and investment must be based on the effectiveness of projects and the acceleration of private investment. With regard to the green transition, Finland has also set a more stringent, welcome target of at least 50% for directing itself to this. The programme must also support investments that create jobs, exports and sustainable growth. Green transition, digitalisation, employment, competence and social and health services have been selected as the focus areas of the programme in Finland. About a week back, we received the Ministry of Finance's's 'future'report. It explores the potential for long-term economic growth. Productivity can be achieved by keeping pace with technological development and digitalisation and high levels of knowledge, among other things. It is precisely in these factors that we have been perjuring ourselves to a weaker position than our analogue country, to which we generally mirror ourselves. According to the report, this is the case with the rest of our economy. For example, in comparison with the digital services of municipalities, we are the weakest in the Nordic countries. A well-targeted sustainable growth programme will enable us to create new potential. In committee, we required that, alongside green growth and digitalisation, education, skills and research efforts be taken into account across all priorities. The Government's objective is to increase the share of Finnish RD expenditure from the current 2.7 per cent of GDP to 4% by 2030. We must now speed up this objective in terms of both basic research and applied research. This will enable us to respond to the structural change in the economy, which, due to the pandemic, is only accelerating and increasing the need for new services, products and new skills. It also makes sense to increase the number of higher education graduates, especially in those areas that support the structural reforms in Finland, employment and this sustainable growth programme. The Covid-19 pandemic has had a wide impact on creative sectors and on the field of events, which are largely stagnant. The financial losses caused by the pandemic are considerable. Art and culture are closely linked to people’s well-being, health and social inclusion. The employment impact of cultural sectors and its size is still a surprise to many. The sector is a bigger employer than our valuable forestry or wood industry. Like the European Parliament's resolution, the committee therefore called for at least 2% of the resources available under the Recovery and Recovery Instrument to be allocated to the cultural and creative sectors, in line with their specific needs. Mr President! Access to skilled labour is one of the most important challenges for our future — the very near future. In terms of young people's well-being and future faith, and thus learning outcomes, we are living in a critical time created by corona and restrictive measures. Soon, for too many young people, repairs will be too late. Remote education drives many to apathy, school drop and aggression have increased. Secondary students should be allowed to return to contact teaching as soon as possible. The effects of Koronapandemia on the mental health of young people have also been negative. Young people who already need support have been affected by the exceptional circumstances of the pandemic. The Sustainable Growth Programme will make a significant contribution to the dismantling of accumulated care debts. As part of this, we need to invest especially in fatigue, loneliness and mental health problems raised by the isolation and distance of young people, but also those of working age and older people. When considering new non-proliferation measures, consideration should also be given to assessing the broad impact of these measures in order not to further deepen the challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u152	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u153	Madam President! I believe that the priorities of the sustainable growth programme now under discussion are largely well-chosen and well-founded. It is important that the programme supports the rapid recovery of the economy and employment, but it is equally important that in the long term it is able to build a new growth base for new innovations in the business world, to support technological development, the promotion of digitalisation, the green transition of industry, to strengthen employment and increase our knowledge base, and to support the Government Programme's target of 4% of RD spending on our GDP. As I said yesterday in a similar debate, the development and recovery tools of the programme have brought about an enthusiastic boom in the provinces. Regions, cities, development organisations and business have jointly built investments and projects around the strengths of the regions to support growth and the objectives of the programme. There are rather worrying messages from the province as they have followed the debate in the hall: are we holding back this spark of growth from the right side of the hall?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u156	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u157	Madam President! This seems to be an impressive programme, because so much is being said about it. This has indeed been the case for and against, and I am sure that it will be good to combine views in a certain period of time. This is indeed a unique solution in this situation and certainly a unique one, and that is why it may have given rise to a debate on its legitimacy and the way in which people have reacted to it. I see this as a very strong point that we are now investing in growth at European level, and, above all, as this market for clean solutions is growing at an accelerated pace, we must now go along with it and invest in this funding. As has already been well expressed here before, this is not the only money. Of course, companies are obliged to do this, and I believe that companies seeking international growth will very much be happy to go along with such projects. The effectiveness of this international currency in it is many times, that is, this is, as EU money in general, this kind of leverage effect, i.e. it is sought for the leverage effect. Reducing emissions requires, in particular, the development and introduction of new, clean technologies. We have different models for this. Lappeenranta and then various companies in the forest industry are investing very significantly in bioproducts and their further processing. As the report highlights the key role of zero-emission and affordable energy in the implementation of energy transformation, it also plays an important role in the implementation of low-carbon industrial road maps. But I also understand that when there has been talk of peat and its rapid decline in demand, this is because peat users have reduced use and changed their operating patterns in such a way that the amount of peat used has decreased. That is how this has now taken away the livelihood or is taking away at least more of the peat entrepreneurs. This is understandable. At least I have a picture of this green transition fund, a fair transition and so away that it would be possible to support companies that are losing their livelihoods or production here on the peat side. It then means new equipment and moving to another sector. At least I know that there are now peat operators on the chipping side. This is, of course, a very bad thing and, of course, would like this fair transition to enable them to be supported and helped to move to a cleaner market. As I recall, Mr Sankelo has pointed out, and also Mr Wallin, that the Seinäjoki produces 70 per cent of the heat in peat. It is quite difficult to find that amount of energy, which means that I do understand those who still produce heat with peat, not to mention the forestry industry, but there are also new opportunities for energy production and electrification. This will enable this energy to be replaced, but it will require a transitional period, that is quite clear. Mr President! Here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u158	Representative Kaunto — gone. Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u159	Mr President! Representative In that recent debat, my corner asked for the energy peat lines of the coalition. I would have liked to have answered in that connection, but that is what will happen. So the energy peat line of the Coalition Party was last defined in the alternative budget of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party at the end of last year. The line is summarised, that is to say, in summary: let the energy sector make a change itself. The availability of other uses of peat, such as dry peat, peat growth peat and possibly also higher processing products, will be secured. And not only that, but also with a view to the future, we must ensure sufficient security of supply. In a certain way, perhaps also as a message to the government: this spring, when this downward spiral is going on with regard to energy peat, to which Mr Pierainen referred, we should certainly define a minimum level of use, which means that, in addition to security of supply, we will assess the boiler plants in Finland, their ageing and so on, and that we will take this change responsibly forward. As Mr Pierainen said there, for example, the Seinäjoki is a good example of this: 70% is the share of peat and new solutions are now being made there. In my view, however, the most important thing is to ensure that there is no need to change the facilities that are in good condition, because it makes no sense from a national economic point of view. Well, then, the JTF support for this sustainable growth programme, which has been advertised on a number of occasions in such a way that it can bring solutions to the change in the peat sector: now this has been going through, and I understand that this is not entirely yielding to the peat entrepreneur who is in the province. My peasant mind too would say that the money should be allocated to the peat entrepreneur and get something, possibly even compensation, or in such a way that his skills are diversified. And it cannot be that the skills are diversified in such a way that a real 60 - year - old turf entrepreneur is trained as a nearby nurse — this is an appreciation for local nurses — but we need to find responsible solutions. The government has to think about this, too. So this JTF alone will not solve this issue. But, Mr President, even more generally, this sustainable growth programme. So the situation is that Finland pays more than it receives. Recovery money should be used effectively to support growth. What should be done? The Coalition Party would direct funds to develop knowledge, promote RD projects, reduce taxation. Business subsidies are also one way of supporting sustainable growth, but funding should be targeted in particular at the creation of new products, the restructuring of the business structure and the promotion of exports. Mr President! Over the years, the European Union has firmly integrated Finland into the Western world and improved our position in the international economy. The level of living has improved and we have relied on the idea of a common Europe. However, the Government’s plans for the Sustainable Growth Programme with its recovery facility conditions and the Government’s line of action on the direction of EU institutions make many alarm bells ring: What's happening? What is the total benefit of Finland? How do we operate in the European Union? A sustainable growth programme cannot be an excuse to sell out the principles that are important to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u160	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u161	Mr President! The Finnish economy is largely dependent on exports, as the previous speaker said. It is just that, as a small country, our markets are strongly linked to foreign trade. The Sustainable Growth Programme is partly a response to the corona crisis, but its objectives are firmly rooted in the long term. Countries with high skills, skilled labour, education and highly processed products are doing well in the world. These can be achieved through a stable policy that is far-reaching. A stable industrial policy also attracts investors to Finland and creates security and a future for employees. The success of exports, high employment and tax revenues also provide the basis for financing the welfare state. Mr President! In these years, it will be decided whether Finland and Finnish companies will also be able to cope in the future on the international market. The Sustainable Growth Programme is a great opportunity for Finland to seize. The future is strongly in green growth, digitalisation and sustainable development. We have all the capacity to cope in those areas, but the competition is fierce. That is why, if ever necessary, we need faith and courage to invest in our expertise in these areas. That is what this sustainable growth programme aims to achieve. We invest in knowledge, innovation, product development and research to gain a strong foothold in the future market. Our goal is to make Finland a pioneer in sustainable development. It is in the interests of Finland and Finnish companies. Mr President! I would also like to emphasise that the recovery instrument for the treatment of the corona crisis is a one-off and very exceptional crisis response. However, its need is very strongly justified. In 2019, EU countries accounted for nearly 60 per cent of Finland's exports of goods. In Finland, exports to the EU employ 66,000 people. It is therefore clear that if the economic recovery in the EU is undermined, the Finnish economy will also suffer very badly from it. The EU's recovery tool, which also finances this sustainable growth programme, is in itself a big lever for Finland's economy. So let us use this opportunity wisely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u162	Representative Hyrkko — gone. Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u163	Madam President! The Government has stated that at least half of the programme will be used to combat climate change. Four pillars have been selected: green transition, employment and knowledge, digitalisation and social services. That means half a billion euros for knowledge and helping people to cope with the interest rate. There is an urgent need to dismantle the management debt caused by interest-bearing restrictions. Particular attention must be paid to promoting employment among young people and the dismantling of waiting lists for mental health services. We can speed up young people's access to the labour market by improving the Ohjaamo services and supporting the growth of after-care customers more comprehensively. Without mental health, there is no health. Low-threshold mental health services are needed in every municipality, and the model described in the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative needs to be made available as a matter of urgency. Madam President! The social reform is a gigantic and necessary package, and unfortunately the preparation of it coincided with the corona crisis. Fortunately, it's been rehearsed a few times before. Sote reform has a huge potential for the development and enhancement of social services. It is also a major structural change for employees and organisations, which are already hard at the moment because of the interest rate. The implementation of the transition phase of the social reform should therefore be included as part of the sustainable growth programme. The better we can get the social welfare reform into the everyday life of our social welfare centres and hospitals, the better we will be able to dismantle treatment queues and prepare for future challenges. Madam President! The Commission also supports the use of recovery money for infrastructure, and in Finland’s country report the Commission has highlighted sustainable transport infrastructure as a development and investment target. The impact of rail infrastructure projects must be noted: they stimulate, employ, support climate goals and the green transition, support our business and industry, facilitate the movement and regional accessibility of Finns and leverage private investment. In its report, the Committee on Finance stresses that the existing network has a large number of fast-startable rail transport facilities and areas for improving Finland’s competitiveness. Of these, viable and suitable for funding by the recovery package are Pasila-Riihimäki, the second phase of the main railway line, the renovation and renovation of the Tampere passenger railway yard and the electrification of the Laurila-Tornio-Haaparanta section. In its opinion, the Committee on Transport also raised the need to speed up the double track in key sections and stressed the practicality, timeliness and effectiveness of all the projects to be implemented. Madam President! In order to achieve green growth and carbon neutrality, priority must be given to projects that take important steps towards Finland's objective of carbon neutrality. These include the innovation platform for carbon-neutral and energy-efficient construction of the Lahti Centre for the Development of Low Carbon Construction and the investment in the South-West Finland waste management removal textile processing plant, which contributes to the achievement of Finland's separate collection obligation by 2023. In order to boost the circular economy, investment is needed not only in SMEs but also in large companies. At the same time, while helping industrial companies across a pandemic, the aid is geared towards carbon neutrality and resource efficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u164	Representative Holopainen — gone. Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u165	Madam President! The fundamental Finns' objection is found on pages 17 to 21 of the report, and it rightly sets out the view we have on this Government report and its sustainable growth programme. Our starting point is very different from that of this money, which is our own money recycled and lost most of it — which will come back — if it does, it will be used up to a maximum of 37% of the green shift when the government, in accordance with its programme, is seeking at least 50%. Why? This green transition has received an unreasonably high level of appreciation in Finland. Finland will not rise with this money or with any effort to make it the world's leading technological player as required by the green transition. Finland does not have that know-how. We have some, such as Wärtsilä in Vaasa and some other excellent companies, but in order for us to succeed in global competition, we need a completely different starting point than we have. Of course, we must invest in them, but not in the way that this leads to. Mr President! The Government’s target year for carbon neutrality is 2035, Sweden 2045 and the EU 2050. In the Committee on Finance, among other things, CEO Mika Anttonen said that: Finland is giving Sweden a ten-year head start here, a 15-year head start for other EU countries, with a target year as strict as 2035. He said that this will lead to the introduction of obsolete technology, which will be very expensive and will not serve climate policy as the objective is. We know, of course, that with this policy the poor people are paying and those who are able and able to obtain new heating equipment, new cars and so on will be able to manage and rewarded, so we will have an expensive bill for this policy. We should take that for 2045 or -50 target years, which is not to give it a head start, for example, to our best competitor, Sweden. Mr President! I just checked the state of the Finnish electricity system on the Fingrid website, ten minutes, 15 minutes ago. Total electricity consumption was 13080 megawatts, production in Finland 9837 megawatts, i.e. 3242 megawatts. In other words, around a quarter to a third of imports and a significant proportion of imports are from Russia. Where it comes from: very environmentally negative and then nuclear power stations that we should not be using there, but our own production, security of supply should be invested. Sweden will be about 2600 megawatts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u168	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u169	Madam President! To the floor of the previous speaker, Mr Kankaanniemi: According to Fingrid Online, a third is indeed coming, but I must say that it is mainly Norwegian and Swedish hydroelectric power, which is coming home. The government has never been to deny or kill peat anywhere. Last week and this week, measures have been taken to address this acute problem. It has to be acknowledged that the taxation of peat was a mistake, which contributed to accelerating the base already exacerbated by emissions trading, but the price of emissions trading has now risen to EUR 16 per peat megawatt, and then, when the tax is 5, the price of peat is more than EUR 30 at the moment. But that is an acute issue that we are looking for measures for entrepreneurs and businesses. I fully agree with Mr Kankaanniemi that we must safeguard domestic energy production. When about 2,800 megawatts of nuclear power are produced at about the moment, we, too, need to complete these bisak churches to lay the basic energy on the ground there. Mr President! The debate is now on the subject of a sustainable growth programme, and this energy issue and the green transition are also a very important part of it. I personally see that these different measures to find energy and new energy, to find new forms of fuel, are very important, and Finland has good know-how in it. I hope that it is with innovations and these projects that we will be able to tighten up this Finnish expertise and then get international export products from it to different parts of the world. But we still need to safeguard this indigenous energy supply and not confuse this domestic energy market. As it is said here that there is support for a fair transition, I would see that, in this form of financing, this fair transition would then also take place with regard to this JTF. I will return to that peat so much that in these negotiations we have the strongest peat production areas in Finland covered by the funding of this JTF, including the designated municipalities from Pirkanmaa where we have strong peat production, including then part of the regions of Western Finland, and then Eastern Finland and Northern Finland, where there is strong peat production. I have to say straight away that this JTF funding is a fair move on a longer tendon, but these measures, raised by Minister Lintila this week, will then be quicker. There is a lot of good in this programme, and when this is a rather short period of time, we would have to mobilise projects that leverage investment and accelerate Finnish competitiveness. One of the sensitive points is what the finance minister, Mr Vanhanen, has been asked to do here in this Chamber, what kind of programmes other countries are doing, what kind of competition comes from this money, so that other countries do not raise the so-called wrong state aid rules by bypassing the wrong competitive base. However, at home, EU regulations are always strictly respected. Mr President! In these comments or in the press, as the Finance Minister, the Committee on Finance, it is precisely the fact that this competitiveness of Finland comes first, then especially these efforts for research and then this follow-up. As far as the programme is concerned, this diversity is very important for the city centre, and in this digitalization it is possible in Finland to make it possible to work in more places, and I think it is very important to build broadband, let us say, fibre networks. It provides a good basis for these digital companies, but also for traditional companies to operate across Finland, but also for people to operate on a multi-site basis across Finland. One fine thing that has been said in the previous speeches is that we can get fast rail connections here, such as, Mr President, a very familiar track from Helsinki to Oulu through Tampere, and if we had rapid measures that could be put in place right away, this would help to maintain the main railway line in Finland and our entire Finnish business operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u170	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u171	Mr President! The Committee on Finance has done a very thorough job in this report on the sustainable growth programme. The committee expects that the focus of the selection of investment and innovation targets will be on the effectiveness, leverage and cost-effectiveness of the actions, strengthening Finland's international competitiveness, and that, alongside green growth and digitalisation, education, skills and product development efforts will be taken into account across all priorities. According to the report of the Committee on Finance, further work must be carried out to ensure that the objectives and the indicators supporting their follow-up are effective and that the monitoring of the implementation of the programme is otherwise comprehensive and transparent. Last week, while the work of the Committee on Finance was still ongoing, the ministerial working group drew up a line that the number of priorities would be reduced from six to four. The remaining priorities are green transition, digitalisation, employment and knowledge, as well as social and health services. I think those two who had been removed should have been included. They are the safeguarding of Finland’s international competitiveness, education and research and innovation. Fortunately, however, the ministerial group explicitly stated that these are, however, reflected and included in the four priorities that have been saved. Mr President! Services that support the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which promote growth and exports, are an important means of increasing Finland’s economic growth potential. For example, we are lagging behind in the export of small and medium-sized enterprises from Sweden. We need to strengthen our sectoral export promotion programmes. Special attention must be paid to tourism after the interest rate, the development of which we do not have the resources to the extent that other Nordic countries have. The use of social media to promote Finnish tourist destinations, such as Lapland, Saimaa and the Turku archipelago, must be increased. This will give us more tourism revenue, which is comparable to that of exports. Our tourist balance has been negative for too long, and the reason is simply that we have not made enough effort... [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : RepresentativeKiviranta, the microphone was muted for some reason. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u174	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u175	Mr President! That is the greetings from the Committee on Education and Rural Development. We gave an opinion on this. I'm going to go over a few points from here on out of our statement. So this is a Government report to Parliament: Finland's sustainable growth programme. We had a very wide-ranging debate in committee, we heard a lot of experts and were very similar to what we heard, and, of course, when they came to the Committee on Education, they certainly expected the expert opinions from our point of view and from our sector. Let me take a few examples of our statement here. We stressed competence and education. In this way, we note in the committee’s opinion: ‘The Committee stresses that the Finnish sustainable growth programme, which is included in the report,is subject to the completion The priority actions of the Sustainable Growth Programme are a prerequisite for the achievement of all the objectives set out in priorities 2 to 6. In all the actions proposed, new skills are needed. The Committee encourages support for infrastructure, ecosystems and partnerships in all programme priorities." Then we also stated here that ‘the committee stresses that the need for continuous learningis obvious and that support is compatible with the theme of a well-sustainable growth programme’. After all, we paid attention to the development of skills in this labour force and stated that there is a parliamentary work underway in Finland to develop a system of continuous learning, but of course it requires resources to be implemented. In our opinion, we also drew attention to the investment in R & D activities and stated this: ‘The recovery funding currently being discussed for these activities will be used carefully to ensure that its impact is more limited than the funding period. The committee stresses the importance of evaluating and allocating funding for projects that may be financed in order to achieve maximum effectiveness. Even with a fixed-term increase in R & D investments, it is possible to reform the R & D field so that positive long-term effects will help to increase the number of R & D investments more permanently in our country.” There was a debate about the fact that, when the objective is to achieve 4% of GDP for this research activity, there is still a considerable amount of resources to be made available, and perhaps this could be supported. “In the committee’s view, there is no reason In this context, however, it is appropriate to take a proactive look at the effectiveness of the established practices and regulations of the Academy of Finland and Business Finland in targeting recovery funding as effectively as possible, taking into account the specific characteristics and objectives of recovery funding, as well as the complexity of the activities supported by recovery funding and the different competences needed to assess it.” Here, in the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we also have the theme of the Youth Package, which is where we pay particular attention to the situation of young people and the fact that we have very different problems for young people, and the corona has also made them worse. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs therefore considers it important that ‘recovery funding is also allocated to the Then the creative sectors and the field of events were particularly intensive in our discussions, and so there are many references here. I will read these summaries to you. On page 38 of the report, it is stated that ‘Creatives have developed a coronaten. In spite of this, the above-mentioned areas are hardly reflected in concrete proposals for measures, for example, so that the need for recovery and the potential of the sector as a growth sector in the future, with its positive and sustainable social impact, should be taken into account, and we have stated that this is why. “The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs highlights the importance of cultural and creative sectors All in all, the activities of the creative and event industries must be taken into account, as we said. We identified the importance of culture for well-being and its potential for growth as well as contributing to the sustainability of the crisis. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u176	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u177	Mr President! The interest crisis is not over yet, but we must look to the future. That is why we need to focus now on how Finland gets to growth after the crisis. The Finnish economy needs structural change. The need for structural change is not only related to the corona crisis and the economic damage caused by it, but, above all, it is related to huge forces of change, megatrends, such as climate change, which forces every single player in the world to renew and seek alternative solutions to old practices. Sustainable development, digitalisation and research are now a hard currency around the world, and Finland also has the opportunity to seize these future trends. Finland has all the prerequisites for becoming a leader in sustainable growth. We have a high level of competence and the capacity to develop new innovations to address the challenges of the future. The Sustainable Growth Programme is an important part of the wide range of instruments that will enable us to build a bridge across the corona crisis towards the post-crisis period and the future. Mr President! A bridge from the crisis to sustainable development will be created by investing in a new one. Of course, industries may be old, but technology, processes and products are being renewed. The experts consulted by the Committee on the Future pointed out that the need for additional investment in the green transition is enormous and will last for at least 10 to 15 years. The majority of investments must therefore be private. The role of the public operator is to enable and support and accelerate these investments. The committee's consultations highlighted the fact that the industry's equipment stock is falling apart, since depreciation has been higher than investment for the past 10 years, except for one year. This is a matter of note. The Committee on the Future pointed out in its own opinion that Finland's investment environment must be internationally competitive. The aim must be as stable and predictable an environment as possible and a sustainable society. Therefore, additional funding for the green transition alone will not be enough if these other, more traditional growth factors are not in the same condition at the same time. Mr President! The priorities set in the Sustainable Growth Programme must be harnessed not only to invest but also to increase productivity. The strengthening of exports will boost Finland’s new growth. Companies in the export industry have a major impact on the Finnish economy. In 2019 they directly and indirectly generated over 46 per cent of Finland’s GDP and imported more than EUR 28 billion of tax revenue. In implementing the Sustainable Growth Programme, it is necessary to ensure that clusters in the export industry are given a springboard. Sea cluster, battery cluster, forest cluster or, for example, food cluster are all great opportunities for Finland and sustainable growth. Mr Eskelinen and many other speakers since then, for example Mr Pirttilahti, highlighted the importance of infrastructure for sustainable growth and the fact that the contribution of infrastructure and additional investment could be part of the green transition and would, in fact, play a crucial role in growth. Infra’s contribution would be a comprehensive part of the programme. However, I believe that Finnish companies, experts and employees can now play a leading role at the global level. The expectations are high, but they should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u178	Representative Strand — absent. Representative Könttä — absent. Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u179	Mr President! In addition to tackling the issue of interest, we are now truly required to be able to see beyond the pandemic. Finland as a whole must be brought to the post-corona world with a more striking and competitive impact. This requires a comprehensive vision and a wide range of actions. The sustainable growth programme under discussion is one important tool in this work — just one, but one. A holistic view requires recognition of the facts, recognition of threats and opportunities and a high level of awareness of changes in the operating environment beyond the borders of Finland. The fact is that we Finns live in a strong destiny with the rest of the world. This is true in both rural and urban areas. Finland is an export-driven, open economy and therefore also dependent on the survival of other countries. The success of Germany, Sweden or Italy is therefore not excluded from Finland, but rather, on the contrary, essential to Finland's success. The fact is, too, that because of the corona crisis the rest of the world is also strongly reviving. Europe, therefore, could not and cannot lie on fire; we must get back on the path of sustainable growth, and when we are in the same economic area, it will either succeed together or not at all. No Member State can survive the crisis alone, but together we are stronger. The recovery of the EU economy as a whole is in Finland's interest, and there is a sound overall economic justification for coordinated recovery measures, as we have said together in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, for example. For Finland, Europe's recovery is particularly important, as almost 60% of our country's exports are directed at the EU region. Many Finns have jobs throughout Finland, so they depend on how the economy develops, for example, in Germany, Italy or Spain. Similarly, the cost of prolonging the economic crisis in Europe would be very crushing for us. Mr President! The sustainable growth programme now under discussion therefore concerns the national priorities and targeting of the recovery instrument. I believe that the objectives and main points set out are well set. On the other hand, the Committee's comments on the need to emphasise the effectiveness, leverage and cost-effectiveness of the measures in the selection of investment and reform sites, in order to strengthen Finland's international competitiveness, are easy to sign. The actions must strengthen skills, increase productivity and processing levels, mobilise the whole of Finland's resources and mobilise billion-dollar investments. The Sustainable Growth Programme is right to promote both a rapid recovery and, in the long term, the necessary reform of business structures and public services. Finland's productivity development must be put on the right track, it must take a good leap forward. Small steps are no longer enough, as we have just heard in Mr Salose's speech. There's a lot of work to be done here. The concrete response that I hope the government will take into account in the implementation of the programme is that the instruments to be introduced would be equally accessible to companies of different sizes if the criteria for projects were met. This is important if we are to boost growth and reform by force. At the moment, the available R & D and innovation funds are quite strongly directed towards large companies. Of course, there are own instruments for smaller businesses, such as ERDF support applied for through the Ely Centres. Indeed, certain types of interlocutors have been growth companies that are going beyond the SME criteria, which are no longer eligible for ERDF investment aid but are currently not sufficiently effective, for example, in the area of Business Finland's aid and financing. In other words, it is worth tackling this challenge now, because it is a certain lost opportunity for the time being and, in view of the practices in our competitor countries, it is also a distortion of competition in the common market. Mr President! As I have already said in the referral debate, the aim must increasingly be ‘designed in Finland’, ‘produced in Finland’ and ‘owned in Finland’. It is the way to growth, employment and prosperity, and it is the way from fog to light, and it is now worth taking advantage of this sustainable growth programme to build this road.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u180	Representative Hoskonen — absent. Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u181	Madam President! The Finns of Peru assume that this completely oversized climate programme must be dropped to the level required by the EU, i.e. 37%, and the funds released will be used to support Finland's international competitiveness and exports, to boost employment and to promote research and development. They are the key issues that lift Finland out of this swamp. I am not buying that we are sending money to Italy and Spain, but we are spending the money in Finland, and if the majority now seems to think that this fund and the loan system and the gift system will be created, then this kind of change of direction should be made by the government in our opinion. Mr President! There has been talk of peat, and when this issue of JTF, the Fair Transition Fund, is also dealt with, there must be great concern about it that the treatment of peat in Finland is so bleak. Now there is a considerable amount of peat industry, peat production, such as peat production, in the area of the new Finnish back municipality, which is now being established. There are entrepreneurs who have attached their machines, equipment, and even their apartments to the profession they are engaged in. Now, very quickly, with the support of the government, this profession will be driven into distress and bankruptcy. Families suffer, individuals suffer excessively. And this JTF, a fair transition fund, according to its rules, can only support training them, but where are men of middle age or middle age who have passed the middle age? We don't have a choice. This is a dark situation. Peat also affects the transport sector and then, for example, we in Jyväskylä require the renewal of tens of millions of premature boilers, perhaps 100 million. That's a waste of money when you do it. The peat, combined with the chip, gives the best power and keeps the boilers clean. If only wood chips are burned, the boilers must be cleaned continuously and the power is much lower than in the current model. This is an extremely serious matter. And then, of course... [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! Where, then, does this lead in the city’s territory and in the dozens of churches that are being heated today with a mixture of wood chips and peat? This will lead to higher energy costs, higher district heat prices, higher electricity prices. It is paid by the poorest people the hardest, by those who have no land heat or similar resources to replace it, and it is difficult to get rid of district heat in urban areas. And there's no point in trying to get away. It's going to cost a lot of money. A common low-income family of employees, a retired couple or a lonely one will have to pay an expensive bill for this government policy. And the energy bill of small entrepreneurs, who are under pressure otherwise, is also rising.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u182	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u183	Madam President! There comes this kind of déjà-vu: you have to say that the government is not killing peat as an energy form. We have to look at the emissions trades, the prices, and Mr Kankaanniemi could ask his party colleague, Mauri Peltokanka, who is on the Vapo Board of Directors, what kind of plans have been made and what kind of decisions have been made there, how you have acted there. I'm not saying that I've been making a difference. If I had been able to do so, I would have done so there too, but of course we know the Governing Board's possible decisions about it. After all, this is a green transition, which has happened that even Vapollo's demand for energy peat has stopped earlier and perhaps because companies want to be greener and there is no demand for that fossil energy once it has been labelled in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u186	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u187	Yes, Madam President, we are having a debate on the Government report on the sustainable growth programme and the programme. After all, there has been a good debate here today, but I would like to point out that when we talk about this green growth and raising it, that is what is happening in Finland at the moment. Last week we received good news from that northern Finland: Kemi bioproduct mill became an investment decision, and this is what is about sustainable growth, export promotion, export development and also the green economy. Indeed, Kemi's bioproduct plant will increase Finland's annual exports by around EUR half a billion — half a billion — and in addition, the plant's annual income impact on Finland is only on the value of wood raw material and the purchase of Finnish work will also amount to another half a billion euros, and if we do this we will raise the national economy. After all, a significant part of the pulp produced by this bioproduct plant will be processed into a high-quality liner board in the factory area. And now that there's been a conversation about this sort of thing, we're talking about bulkbacks, no increase in value, so that's not true. This bioproduct plant there. In Kemi, some 1,500 new jobs are created directly into the value chain in Finland — the opposition, 1500 new jobs, much of which are then located in the direction of activity. And in total, around 2,500 people will work in the direct value chain of this bioproduct plant in Finland. Of course, the positive effects of this project are very significant for the region of Kemi and then for the whole country as well, and now that we are talking about sustainable growth, of course this tree will be acquired from sustainably managed forests, and certainly the origin of that tree will be known. And I would also like to stress that this will create that sustainability. There are thinning waste in northern Finland, and such industrial investments create the possibility that wood can be transported. Madam President! Yet, when we talk about a sustainable economy, these bioproduct factories, in addition to its main raw material, also produce other products, including, for example, this Kemi bioproduct plant produces about two terawatt hours of electricity per year, which corresponds to about 2.5 per cent of Finland's total electricity production, and this electricity
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u188	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u189	Madam President! We have a Government Report to Parliament – Finland’s sustainable growth programme. The Coalition Party is critical of the Government's sustainable growth programme. Parliament has not even made a decision on the EU recovery instrument yet, and we are already handing out the loan money. After all, the recovery instrument was originally intended for the effects of the interest rate, but it seems to be geared to other purposes. In the recovery instrument, Finland's contribution is around EUR 6.6 billion, and Finland is only about EUR 2.7 billion, which is a rather poor loan transaction. This could be taken as a loan by Finland itself if it is considered necessary. On the other hand, the Marin Government has organised a comprehensive tour under municipal elections in different parts of Finland. As a result, the programme has brought together a wide range of overlapping goals and means, promised money here and there. The wide range of objectives and means will therefore lead to a fragmentation of funds into a large number of small, isolated projects. If the programme were genuinely to achieve effectiveness, the objectives should be limited and the funds allocated to well-founded, genuinely effective entities, in line with expert recommendations. The total increase in research resources from 2021 to 2027 in the EU's multi-annual budget will remain modest. Climate change, coping with the corona crisis and many other global challenges require significant research efforts. Only with high-quality science and research will we be able to meet the big challenges of our time. Finland must be a pioneer and an attractive environment for scientific research. Research, development and innovation must be strengthened, inter alia, in the field of health technology, the development of the social services sector and the need for services to meet the growth challenges. This also supports the green transition. Together with the public sector, we need partnerships and a private sector that invests in research and product development. Investing in partnership networks between public actors and companies in different sectors would contribute to Finland’s return to a career of sustainable growth. The key question is how we can get companies to invest in research and innovation in Finland. Mr President! Health and well-being applications in information technology are a growing area for the future. Our national information resources also offer opportunities for new innovations and sustainable growth. This also offers opportunities for different R & D activities, as well as the development of pharmaceutical, vaccine or health technology, which could lead to investment in Finland. A well-being state is better placed to continue to support the well-being of its citizens and to reduce inequalities. It is of particular importance that the legislation on the processing of social data be continued and clarified. Only then will it be possible to genuinely lead with information and develop cost-effective social and health care and to make the most of digitalisation. Securing and expanding the funding of national quality registers would be necessary for open decision-making, access to information, quality management and control of cost growth and would provide factual information to support decision-making by professionals. In order to improve customer orientation and freedom of choice, the information they contain is also important for customers. The user of the services must receive more information about the availability, quality and results of the services. The Sustainable Growth Programme should also take into account the provisions of the EU Patient Directive. The patient directive must be transposed into national law and applied in the right way. Adequate monitoring at EU level and transparency of national programmes and measures are essential for achieving and accepting the objectives of recovery funding. Uniform compliance with state aid rules and transparency in public procurement must also be maintained. In order to maintain the attractiveness of the sector and improve well-being at work, we need social investment in well-being at work. It is important that EU action and cooperation are developed with a goal. However, the plans presented by the Government in the Sustainable Growth Programme, together with the overall conditions for financing the recovery instrument, and the government's policy on the development of EU institutions are strongly flawed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u190	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u191	Mr President! Just a brief word about this opinion by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, because it was a little unfinished. So we took a stand on the cultural sector — here it is like the ‘Creative sector and event’ — and we used a great deal of time to get through it and keep it going: “The aim of the Programme for Sustainable Growth From this point of view, the report does not set out any measures for modernising the structures of art, culture and the field of events. In the Committee's view, it is necessary to address this gap by, for example, taking these areas into account as part of the priority area of strengthening sustainable infrastructure and digitalisation. It makes it possible to set the objectives of strengthening the industrial structures of art and culture, of modernising the public service structures in the sector and of developing social security for operators in the sector through a comprehensive long-term plan." Very important things to consider. To conclude, we say: ‘The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs insists that the funding for sustainable development measures takes account of at least 2 % of Let this be an accompanying word for the construction of this recovery fund. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u192	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u193	Mr President! In parallel with this sustainable growth programme, a more detailed national recovery plan will therefore be prepared and will set out these investment and reform targets and their costs and timing. The initial plan will be submitted to the Commission in mid-March, formal plan in April 2021. That is why I say that, for example, Mr Laiho is already, as it were, criticising these items, to which funding is being allocated, as if there were already individual targets. It is clear that funding is not enough for all the items highlighted in the report. That is why they need to be prioritised, and just as the honourable Member said earlier, the most important criterion is the effectiveness — the effectiveness that you yourself called for in your speech. But, Mr President, it is not only the EU, the companies or the Member States, as is the case here with many speeches, my own, that could have concluded, but also the people, the citizens, who are also the object of its effectiveness and, hopefully, the active citizens involved. In the case of social services, for example, the main objectives of the priority are the dismantling of the social welfare and health care debt caused by the pandemic — a matter that we have also talked about and raised concerns over the government — opposition boundaries — and the reduction of social inequalities. The aim is therefore to strengthen the prevention of social and health problems and the provision of accessible services. It is also particularly important that action be taken quickly to discharge the care debt and to speed up the development of approaches that improve access to treatment. These too are therefore part of the objectives of this sustainable growth programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u194	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u195	Madam President! Peat's talking. There has been much talk of it in this Chamber today, and it is no wonder, because it is serious and the situation is serious. The situation in the peat sector is currently out of control, it is out of control, and it is serious, for example, in terms of security of supply in Finland, which is also a safety issue. The situation is also serious from the point of view of employment and the regional economy, and when energy peat is also connected to peat for litter and growth, it involves animal welfare and food production, and this is therefore a very serious situation. In politics, it is quite typical that the parties blame each other and always remember what the government has done at any time, and the opposition, of course, points to the government and the opposition. But in this context, when the situation is serious, I think that perhaps we should all look in the mirror. For example, it has been known for a long time that peat's energy use is strongly controlled by the emissions trading system. All forecasts have shown that the price of allowances will rise, and this has also happened, and at the moment it is the cost factor that drives down energy peat that is the price of allowances, as has already been heard on many occasions in this debate. Although this has been known, so far no government has, for example, built an effective security of supply arrangement for energy peat, and that is why we are in this situation. I am pleased that for the first time yesterday, Minister Lintilä presented concrete proposals on how to build a security of supply system in this country and thus ensure our own energy security. He also presented the idea of this element of tax protection, which is also a concrete one, and I warmly support it. I hope that this work will now be supported across party boundaries, because it is indeed linked, among other things, to security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u198	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u199	Thank you, Madam President. In the previous speech, I brought in one plant investment, that is, the economic and employment impact of this Kemi bioproduct plant in this country. And I forgot to mention that in Eastern Lapland, Kemijärvi has a similar bioproduct factory on a slightly smaller scale in preparation, about one billion projects, and also in Kainuu province a similar bioproduct factory is planned in Paltamo. And, in the previous speech, when I introduced the effects of such investments in factories as job-creating effects and, above all, as economic effects which create the growth in our economy, I would like to see that, when we discuss the sustainable growth programme, these investments in factories would be strongly taken forward, because they will be and are already the drivers of growth for Finland. Madam President! The Committee on Finance has now adopted a report on this sustainable growth programme and has proposed that Parliament approve this position. However, the committee suggests that further preparation should take into account the following: ‘The Commission requires that the selection of investment andreform sites should focus on the effectiveness, leverage and cost-effectiveness of operations, strengtheningthe international competitiveness of Finland. “ The second point:‘The Commission calls for the use of the ‘green growth’ And I am going to increase this education, because when so many new jobs are created in that north of Finland, we must also create a basis for training the skilled workforce there in the neighbouring areas. That is what I wanted to say, Madam President. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u200	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u201	Madam President! To Mr Kettunen, we Finns, in particular, are very happy that this investment is coming to Kemi and also to Eastern Lapland and elsewhere. [Jomas Kettunen’s interlude] Mr President! The Kuopio factory did not receive any permits. You should do something to get that too, but nothing has happened. For us Äänekoski was taken through five years ago, a fine factory, and it has gone well, of course, it has not been done in parallel, as it was thought then, and that would of course be important. But all these things that have been mentioned here have come without us funding Italy. Based on Finnish ownership, for example, just Metsä Group, when it is basically a company of Finnish forest owners, invests in Finland, but others export abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u209	I would remind Members that our rules of play state that 3 minutes can be spoken from the place and then we have to move on to the podium in this debate, and 5 minutes is a recommendation for the length of the speech. — Representative Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u210	Mr President! The sustainable growth programme has high expectations, as can be seen from the lively debate here today. The SGP aims to achieve both a rapid-acting recovery and long-term structural reforms. For Finland’s competitiveness, it is important to direct recovery efforts in a sustainable way. It is important to select recovery measures to support the development of a carbon-neutral circular economy. A circular economy can also contribute to halting the growing loss of nature. The transition to a carbon-neutral society is the best way to support Finland’s competitiveness. At the same time as we minimise the carbon footprint we leave, we can increase our carbon footprint, that is, the positive climate impact that our activities will have. Our Finnish expertise networks, technology focus and agility help us to produce and develop solutions that the world desperately needs to address the climate challenge. Finland has expertise and innovation. The challenge is how we can scale them for implementation and production and thus export. For example, it is important for us to strengthen the knowledge ecosystems built around our universities. This is also the best regional policy of all. Mr President! Recently, there has been talk of how attractive Finland is for investment. It is important to understand that electrification of energy production, for example, is a key element in how we can attract new investments in the future. The availability of carbon-neutral energy is an increasingly important factor in business establishment decisions. Finnish RD investments are far behind us in international development, and our main competitors are far ahead of us. Finland must make an effort to increase research, development and innovation expenditure to the target of 4% of GDP. The public sector can contribute to increasing private investment as well. In particular, state funding is needed for the creation of high-risk investment projects in new technologies. It is important to accelerate the breakthrough in the hydrogen economy, for example. At this stage, this programme does not set out the details, but rather the broad lines. The priorities have been selected very well. They are green transition, digitalisation, employment and knowledge, as well as social and health services. Some speakers have criticised the lack of concreteness of this report. At this stage, however, we are only talking about larger lines and targets, and real prioritisation and selection of measures will take place in further preparation. Targeting will determine how the objectives now set will be achieved. It is therefore very important that the emphasis be placed on the effectiveness of the actions and that indicators be chosen to monitor the achievement of the objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u211	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u212	Madam President! We are talking here about Finland's sustainable growth programme, which is intended in principle for the effects of the interest rate. Korona has mistreated the whole world, Europe and also Finland, and of course there is a need for support for this. But the way in which this support now comes through the EU's expensive debt regime can be criticised. If this recovery tool is adopted, the vast majority of funds should be directed towards developing skills and raising skills and promoting significant, well-founded R & D projects. In the national programme, recovery resources should be concentrated on effective entities to support structural reforms. The funds should aim to support the recovery from the short-term crisis caused by the interest rate and the growth of long-term production potential. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the Government's proposal, and now that information was received a few days ago on where they will be concentrated, it was very unfortunate to note that there was a lack of a share of research, science and technology — precisely those areas that would be specific areas of potential growth in Finland. Secondly, this is where social and health services are an important boost; they are needed for post-column repairs. Unfortunately, however, the money from this recovery instrument cannot be used to hire staff, i.e. to reduce the maintenance debt. This cannot be used through the recruitment of staff, it has been brought up in expert consultations. The Government report sets out a number of universal and acceptable issues in itself, but contains a number of sub-objectives and measures that dissipate the measures to a low degree of effectiveness. Therefore, the impact of the Sustainable Growth Programme will probably be very modest. So now, with hard money, we get quite modest effects. This could be done more effectively and also better addressed to precisely those areas where Finland specifically needs recovery and regrowth in the post-corona period.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u213	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u214	Mr President! Under the leadership of the current government, our energy and climate policy has been translated into an unstable and unpredictable course. Before this parliamentary term, the decision-making sector has had little or no stability that would have served the overall interests of our society and of our country and, at the same time, have brought it more than lasting consistency over the parliamentary term. There is now no stability and predictability at all, and at its worst it jeopardises both the industry and its capacity to function and the jobs associated with it. Therefore, the Government's objective of carbon neutrality should not be signed by 2035. The Government Programme must therefore be redesigned, especially in the area of climate policy. It should also be borne in mind that when we talk about climate policy and the Agenda 2030 programme that is closely linked to it, we cannot ignore agriculture and its importance for our country. The Finns Party attaches great importance to the fact that the agricultural and forestry sector in our country, for example, is not further hampered by over-ambitious emission reduction targets. The Finns of Peru continue to work to ensure that Finland as a whole will also be able to live and practise both agriculture and agricultural entrepreneurship comprehensively in the future. That is why Finns demand realism for climate policy too. The Green Left Government makes its climate policy pay for the poor people in rural areas, as well as for drivers and entrepreneurs. At the same time, this climate drive threatens to lead to the transfer of the world's cleanest industrial production to countries that do not care about emissions. The cornerstones of our energy and climate policy must be the highest level of self-sufficiency and security of supply and production. In Finland, the guidelines for policy-making must be urgently restored to the centre of political decision-making: the price of energy must be able to replace Finland's remote location vis-à-vis our competitors and long journeys within the country. Only at a low cost of energy will it be possible to compensate for the extra costs of transporting our products to the market over a long period of time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u215	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u216	Madam President! I would also like to take up the speeches and views that have been expressed here about whether this sustainable growth programme will serve the country as a whole and whether it will mobilise the whole of Finland's resources, because it is an important issue. For example, Mr Kankaanniemi criticised the fact that this programme would not take into account the resources of the whole country — with a number of different words, but this was the message. I would like to draw attention now to the fact that this recovery package will in fact provide Finland with more funding for rural development, regional development and the research framework programme. These investments are important for the strengthening of new growth, employment and regional development throughout Finland. For example, broadband connections, fast internet connections, are the basic infrastructure of the information society, which also support multi-seat everyday life and equal conditions for living and entrepreneurship throughout Finland. And this infrastructure must now be extended to all parts of Finland. It is regional policy at its best. Similarly, significant growth prospects are linked to the development of the bio- and circular economy, especially in regions throughout Finland. And the emerging industry and agile SMEs, such as us in Satakunta, are at the forefront of solving common problems, such as climate change. In other words, these investments in the future will create new, sustainable jobs for Finns throughout the country. There are many of these within this sustainable growth programme, all of which are very important contributions to growth and, at the same time, also concrete regional policies, but above all wise policies, because they create sustainable growth and work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u217	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kankaanniemi's speech was well received when you said that the Finns of Peru support these investments in bioproduct factories. It is great that you are in favour here in the big hall, but I also hope that you will also send a message to the people of Finland in the provinces, in the direction of Kainuu and Eastern Lapland, that they will support these investments in the factory even more joyfully and more strongly. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u221	Congressman Löfström. - I'm sorry if you could turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u222	Mr President, ärade fru talman! Vi diskaterar i kväll Finlands planer och program för hållbar tillväxt via det återhämtningspaket som kommer att kanaliseras och koordineras via EU. Det är viktigt att vi satsar på för det första grön omställning, för det andra digitalisering och för det tredje att stärka kokurrenskraften som finns med i den är redogörelsen. Detta så att inte bara Europa utan också Finland kan gå starkare ut ur krisen effecter pandemin och så att vi stärker våra spetskompetenser och våra exportkluster där vi är är världsledande, så att vi klarar oss i den hårda globala konkurrensen inte bara mellan lännder utan också mellan oika orter i de stora globala koncerna som vi har många av i Finland. Där finns det hela tiden en kamp kring beslut om var man ska investera: ska man göra det i Finland eller någon annans i världen. Därför måste vi säkerstä kkonkurrenskraften i den hårda globala kkonkurrensen som finns, och är har återhämtingspaket möjlighet att spela en betydande roll. Irade the Talman! En majoritet av Finlands export går till andra EU-länder. Det är i vårt interests att Europa Klalar sig och stärks. Irade fru talman! Åland har strabbats brutalt av den ox pandemic. Ålands BNP sjönk förra året, 2020, med 16 percent. Arbetslösheten steg från 3 percent till 13 percent när det var som allra värst. Nu har den börjat sjunka igen, men den ox pandemin slog mot hjärtat i den åländska economist: sjöfart, tourism och service. Full återhämtning kan enbart komma med ett vaccin, men det tauri återhämningspaklet är ändå mycket välkommet, och det är läkommet att Åland har möjligheten att uppgöra ett eget program inom ramen för det nationalella programmet och att Åland får 0,54 procent av den höstödpotten, Vilket återspeglar Ålands andel av den finländska befolkningen. Det är ungefär EUR 13 million. Här vill jag avslutningsvis, ärade fru talman, tacka regeringen och i synnerhet finansminister Matti Vanhanen och finansministeriets kanslichef och övriga tjänstemän för en god discussion med Åland där man på ett mycket bra stätt i god tid hitt fungerande lösningar på den bull saken mellan riket och Åland. Det är ett föredöme för hur många andra saker käände skotas mellan Åland och riket. [PresidentAnuVehviläinen : Joint motion. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u225	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u226	Madam President! The Finns Party received 538805 votes in the April 2019 elections, which means that as many people supported our party in the elections. It may be that there will be one who is not happy about the construction of the Kemi factory, but if you happen to know this person, Mr Kettunen, tell me, and I will talk to him that he too understands how valuable it is that companies invest in Finland, and how valuable it is that we invest our resources in the interests of Finland and not do it for the benefit of others without profiting from it. Mr President! Mr Kettunen said about the projects in Kuopio that maybe Kallavesi is too small. [Jomas Kettunen’s interlude] Mr President! Thirdly, I am extremely concerned that these funds, which are already being distributed here, are concentrated within the Helsinki-Turku-Tampere triangle. And that is why I am talking about the fact that, when this plan is being drawn up, the regional effects must be taken into account. This was the subject of some debate in the Committee on Finance, but the Minister of Finance said that this was not shared in regional policy. I understand that it is not actually divided by region, but the impact must be assessed, as well as the social impact. This climate policy is a severe blow to the poor people and the countryside, and it has to do with it not doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u227	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u228	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to peat in this Chamber, we have heard a lot of talk from the government about how the rise in the price of allowances has driven the peat industry into distress. That is certainly the case, but there is nothing to be gained from the fact that the government, through its own actions, was speeding up this decline with the peat tax. You will not get black and white by talking about the impact of your own actions on the acceleration of the shutdown and the uncontrollable state. It is great if the government has the will to correct the consequences of this uncontrolled shutdown and to support peat production, and I can promise the city centre that the Finns of Finland will certainly be able to draw on this. The question is whether you can get it from government parties, your partners. During his visit to Kankaanpää, Minister Ohio said that nothing will be burned in Finland in the future. This may be the case at times, but now that we can develop and direct money into renewable combustion methods, we will have to use this money, EU subsidies, to compensate for the consequences of the uncontrolled dismantling of the peat sector. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u233	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u234	Madam President! I shall make a statement in accordance with the basic Finns’ objection, which reads as follows: ‘The Commission shall require the government to take measures to clarify the situations in which the use of a specialist doctor is necessary to assess the applicant’s incapacity to work, taking into
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u235	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u236	Madam President! I support this objection made by Mr Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u237	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u238	Mr President! This amendment to the Act on communicable diseases is a matter that has also been dealt with in the Committee on Culture. The social impact assessment of the proposal has, in many respects, been carried out in a comprehensive manner. It is good that the explanatory statement also highlights the social impact of the proposal, for example in the field of physical activity and sport. It is clear that many studies have shown that, for example, physical, artistic and cultural activities and thus their limitation have an impact on the health and well-being of citizens. The diversity of services provided by society is also important for those who enable themselves to be developed. In this, exercise and culture play a huge role. Unusual time is a tremendous test of human mental and physical resources. Right now, the role of physical activity, art and culture as a provider of life content, an importer of courage and a driving force for mental health plays an increasingly important role. The cultural hunger of Finns has become ever greater as the pandemic continues. These are also important in coping with the negative effects of the crisis. Particularly during an exceptional period, it is important to maintain the social and mental integrity of citizens. I think it is important that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in its report highlights the impact of the proposed measures in the field of art and culture, bearing in mind the cultural rights attached to it. President! The purpose of this speech is to continue to express my concern at the fact that we would not drift away from the consequences of virus control. I therefore hope that, despite the changes in the Act on Contagion, we will maintain clear thinking and do not do things that do not make sense or make sense. So we constantly need a sense of proportion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u239	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u240	Mr President! I myself would like to comment specifically on the situation in the cultural and event field, which is one of these, which is very much affected by this interest rate. The cultural sector employs, directly and indirectly, a very large number of people whose livelihood has been and continues to be scarce or non-existent as a result of the closures. The turnover of enterprises in the event sector has fallen by up to 95 per cent over the last ten months. In 2020, 10,000 workers have been laid off and as many as 136,000 temporary workers have not been fully employed. In its report 1/2021, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is now making a statement for adoption that the Government must prepare a compensation model for the loss of income resulting from the closure of the new Article 58g farms proposed for inclusion in the Act on Diseases. Consequently, compensation would not be required in situations where a restriction of activity has been imposed under another provision of the Act on communicable diseases. It should be borne in mind that, for example, various events are also restricted under the current provision of Article 58 of the Law on assembly and public restrictions. The result of this statement by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is that when this compensation, which is now being proposed, is tied to closure, it will only help some entrepreneurs, but not for example the organiser of public events. In other words, if, for example, there is an opportunity at the shopping centre and the shopping centre is not closed, as could be done under Article 58g — the new section — but limited to ten, then no one can arrange it, and this organiser loses a huge amount of revenue there. For this reason, I propose a new statement which states: ‘The Council of State requiresthe Council of State topreparate provisions on the compensation to traders for the financial loss caused by the disease loan. “ And this now has to do with the fact that if the Act on communicable diseases either restricts or shuts down activities, that is to say, in all things, restricts business activities in the field of events and culture or anything else, and this is done as an opportunity imposed or provided by the articles of the Act on communicable diseases, then it would also be compensated for. Such a model should be a government model rather than a mere compensation model within the meaning of Article 58g. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u241	Representative Multala — absent. Representative Salonen — gone. Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u242	Madam President! In the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there is indeed a proposal for a statement relating to the Act on communicable diseases, which compensates traders if they have to close the premises, but it is quite true, as Mr Risikko pointed out, that the sector in particular has already suffered from these other restrictions, which have been imposed by the restrictions on assembly and which are also linked to these public spaces. The turnover of companies in the event sector has fallen by 80-95% over the last ten months, and for 2020 losses in the event industry have been estimated to reach EUR 1.9 billion. Crisis times test people’s mental endurance. The importance of culture for well-being is indisputable. The cultural and event sector needs a view of the future. Culture must not die of corona. As far as the industry is concerned, it is now important to move on to thinking about how events can be organised safely and not just through restrictions. Safety above all, health safety, but we must also think about the future. Restrictions must be logical and consistent and it is also justified that the sector of the event should be compensated for its losses. I support Mr Risiko's proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u243	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u244	Madam President! This infectious disease law has certainly become an e-mail and a message for all of us in Parliament, that on Friday we are deciding on forced vaccinations and coercive tests, and that is quite a misconception. This motion does not refer to forced vaccination or forced testing. It's a whole other thing to do. It is only a matter of continuing the corona restrictions. In this context, the Finns have made some points, such as that it is practically impossible to limit the number of passengers in local transport, but they did not pass. However, we have a proposal for a statement. I will read this proposal for a declaration: ‘The Board of State will require that provisions be drawn up in a timely manner to compensate traders for the
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u245	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u246	Madam President! I support the statement made by Mr Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u247	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u248	Irade fru talman! Vi diskuterar ändringen i lagen om smittsamma sjukdomar, och det är något som vi har behandlat grundligt i bland you give grundlagsutskottet, där jag är medlem. I synnerhet de temporära ändringarna i smittskyddslagen har variants comlicerade och vi har hört en valdigt stor mängd sakkunniga i den arv frågan. Vi beslöt bland you give att de temporära ändringarna bara kunge reserve i kraft till den 30 trains, inte till den 31 december som regeringen föreslog, och det är är något som ju nu ligger till grund för vår behandling, som social- och älsovårdsutskottet har föreslagit. Vi konstaterar också att ekonomisk compensation måste ges till dem som drabbas samt också att man gör ändringar i 9 a §, som man nu från social- och älsovårdsutskottet föreslår att stryks i sin helket är viktigt för den kommunala självstyrelsen. Irade fru talman! Det ox lagförslaget ger större make till lokala och regionala smittskyddsmyndigheter. Med den makten kommer också stort ansvar. Riksdage delegerar den oxen och kommer inte ha det bet som vi har i beredskapslagens förordningar. Å andra sidan gör den raus delegeringen till lokala och regionala smittskyddsmyndigheter att man battre kandra nuta av den kometensen som verklogen finns i varje kommun och i sjuvårdsdistrikt så att det utformas på precis jätt och optimalt sättt på området. Med det sagt hoppas jag att inget av det bull egentligen skulle behövas, att inga begränsningar behöver användas, effectsom det får stora consekenser. Varje begränsning för att skydda mot smitta — Vilket kan vara nödvändigt — får alltid en negativ consekons som bieffekt. Av den anledningen vill jag mana alla medborgare till att fortsutta ha tålamod och ta det ansvar med att följa rekommendationer som vi har gjort så bra hits för att vi inte ska få en större smittospridning. Om vi håller ner smittospridningen, om vi håller viruset tillbaka, så får man inte använda de ox begränsningarna. Då behöver vi inte ha begränsningarna och då kan vi ha ett maximalt öppet samhälle tills vi med vaccinernas hjälp kan kommenta tillbaka. Irade the Talman! Avslutningsvis: På Åland är det Ålands landskapsregering som enligt smittskyddslagen är ansvarig smittskyddsmyndighet. För tilfället är smittotalet på Åland 7 per 100,000 de Senaste 14 dagarna, det är alltså ett mycket bra lage, så inga av de ai begränsningarna får ens tas i bruk på Åland nu av landskapsregeringen. Men om det ska tas i bruk några restrictionner så förutsätter det ett activt beslut av landskapsregeringen och ingen I give. [PresidentAnuVehviläinen : Joint motion. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u251	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u252	Mr President! In the debate, the proposal to amend and temporarily amend the Act on communicable diseases, and I would like to raise the issue of border security and testing at our borders with Finland. In my own municipality, Kuhmo, there is an international border crossing station. This is also the case with heavy traffic at the security border crossing station during the corona period, and a few weeks ago the local newspaper headlined that one third of heavy traffic drivers refuse the corona test. Even there voluntary testing has been ensured on behalf of Kainuu bogs, and rapid rapid testing will quickly indicate whether passengers are corrosive or not. Here I would like to point out that when the committee states in its report that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has carried out a supplementary legal assessment of the possibilities for authorities to require passengers arriving in Finland from so-called high-risk countries to have a pre-test or a test for interest rate. The same thing has therefore already been assessed last autumn, in 2020, but regulation was considered very problematic from the point of view of fundamental rights. The committee has made a report, and according to its report, the government's proposal to amend the Act on communicable diseases is to be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. The committee considers the preparation to be urgent and has proposed the following statement: ‘The Council of State requires the Council of State toprepare,in order to supplement the legislation on communicable diseases,the provisions necessary to prevent the spread of a general outbreak of dangerous communicable disease to be prepared by the Council I am in favour of getting such tests at the borders, which will help everyone to travel safely, and we will make sure that the corona does not then spread here to Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u253	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u254	Mr President! Mr Kettunen made a very good speech and I very much support the introduction of so-called forced testing at the border. The borders are leaking like a sieve, and we have enough disease here from behind us and then these transformation viruses, which spread like wildfire. But, in fact, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I asked for this speech when I wanted to add a few points to the opinion of the Committee on Culture. The opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs on the amendment and temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases stated unanimously that the conditions for the well-being of children and young people must be safeguarded. The committee considers that restrictions on leisure and leisure activities significantly undermine the well-being of children. In the Committee's view, the impact of the restrictive measures has not been sufficiently assessed in the Government's proposal. The Committee stresses that when considering restrictive measures, the primary principle of decision must be the best interests of the child, including in the case of short-term or partial restrictions on activities. According to the committee, these restrictions must also be consistent and proportionate. In implementing the Act on communicable diseases, it is necessary to stress that children can participate in sports and cultural activities in a more flexible way than the current practices of exceptional circumstances. The Committee on Education and Social Affairs proposes that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should assess the measures needed to organise leisure activities for children and young people in the field of physical activity and culture, taking into account health safety. The second point that we stressed in this opinion was precisely the field of events and culture. In its opinion, the Committee on Education and Social Affairs also considers it important for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to highlight in its own report the impact of the measures proposed by the government in the field of art and culture. In the Committee's view, safeguarding civil rights is essential, as culture plays an important role in ensuring well-being and the resilience of the mental crisis. In exceptional times, it is particularly important to maintain the social and mental integrity of citizens. And we described the impact of this — what I was talking about in my recent speech — and our overall assessment was that we asked the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to look critically at the proposed restrictions and the regulation on the closure of premises. According to the committee's assessment, the proposed provisions lead to cumulative restrictions and prohibitions. In this case, decisions do not take into account the natural opportunities and skills of various local activities and whole industries to organise spaces and practical activities in a safe way. As a personal point of view, I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not take sufficient account of these, but I hope that there will then be corrections in the implementation and then we will have this compensation model here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u255	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u256	Mr President! In the context of this temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, the committee stressed the overall welfare of children and young people. It was, among other things, an important factor in excluding outdoor spaces from these restrictions, in order to be able to maintain well-being both for children and adults on the outside during this difficult corona period, and to be able to exercise is also an important part of people's well-being. In addition, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health made a statement in relation to this so-called border law, because the virus is leaking from our borders like a sieve and must be blocked. Unfortunately, it already exists in Finland, but this needs to be corrected quickly, and it is important. I have the impression that the government is already preparing and possibly bringing it to Parliament. Then I would like to highlight the restrictions raised by the Finns-based on carriers, which is also an important point. If the number of people in transport has to be limited, it is a significant fall in business activity and costs these operators. This is particularly difficult for me, for example, in local transport, here in the capital region of HSL. First of all, if we had to limit the number of people, it would be very difficult to put it into practice, and then what happens is whether people are left out in the freezer and not picked up? For example, during the day the traffic shifts are few, and then schoolchildren spend a lot of time on buses to and from school, which is a difficult point. Therefore, the point might be to consider whether there are other tools to prevent this if the disease situation worsens. That is why I raised and discussed in committee the obligation to wear facial masks, the use of facial masks and whether it could then try to keep the normal number of people. We have good results in terms of air transport, for example, and VR implements it in part of the trains, but it is not used elsewhere. The operators would expect some kind of national guideline for this. However, the committee did put in a record that the ministry should clarify the possibilities for transport service providers and other traders to require the use of face masks from their customers, and hopefully this is something that is now being tackled in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u257	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u258	Mr President! I believe that this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases has been awaited for a long time, among those authorities which are now trying to take restrictive measures insofar as the disease situation in areas such as the regions is getting worse and worse. The amendments to the Act on communicable diseases are intended to ensure, in particular, the carrying capacity of social and health services, and most of the changes are only in force temporarily in relation to the corona virus epidemic. For example, in the case of interest rates, regional restrictions could be imposed by the authorities on business and hobby activities where this is necessary to prevent spread. This will provide local and regional authorities with better opportunities to take proactive and rapid action to prevent the spread of the virus. As a last resort, this would also make it possible to close the premises for a maximum of two weeks, but even in such cases it must be necessary to prevent the spread of an uncontrolled epidemic. This is therefore the purpose and aim of the legislation, and I hope that it will be done in this way. However, I know that in practice it is very difficult to take these measures at local level, although it will be supported by legislation in the future. That is why there will certainly continue to be a need for us to be able, in some respects at national level, to jointly instruct these recommendations, because they will always be difficult for the individual authority there. As we have already heard, for example, even though restrictions on business activities are always humane. It is the economy of its operator, and the future of the whole operation may even be at stake. What is important, however, is, of course, that we should then be able to reduce these infections through this, and that is why, in this report, the committee has also stressed that these measures, which are then taken there, should always be proportionate. The committee has also pointed out that, in the case of children and young people, careful consideration should always be given to the fact that the well-being of children and young people is not impaired. Hobbies have been raised in a very lively debate, and many of the activities of children and young people, for example, have been compared to the opening hours and activities of restaurants, and it is good that this has also been highlighted here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u259	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 2/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Representative Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u260	Madam President! It is indeed a matter of amending the Nuclear Energy Act and the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority Act, and the purpose of this is to improve investment and more diversified use of the funds managed by the State Nuclear Waste Management Fund and also research. Nuclear waste managers would be obliged to participate in risk management related to investment activities. In other words, nuclear waste management in general is a long-term activity, and the intention is indeed that the fund should be well-functioning. The second point here is, of course, this amendment to the Financial Supervisory Authority's law that the Financial Supervisory Authority would also monitor the investment activities of the State Nuclear Waste Management Fund and this insider register. This is a unanimous report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy with one amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u261	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Representative Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-17-ps-10.u262	Madam President! This is a presentation of the production aid for electricity produced from renewable energy sources and its closure. In other words, the renewable energy source of electricity has had support, especially forest chips in relation to peat, so that the energy produced with bioenergy is always cheaper than that produced with peat. At the moment, when the emissions trading price and other measures have led to an increase in the price of this peat, it is no longer considered necessary to continue this scheme. However, there is still the possibility of joining this aid scheme until 15 March — this is still the case for these heating plants, if there is a desire to be involved — but this aid has not been needed for a while. Mr President! In this context, I will also mention the current situation with regard to this forest chips. I see that with all our strength we should support our own domestic energy. We currently have about a million hectares of logging waste, and there is a great deal of energy in the forest, and we should get it out of there. There has been much talk of peat, among other things, today, and I see that it is through the Kemera subsidies and other subsidies that we would get this domestic energy better for these own heating plants. Of course, another issue has also arisen, which means that the amount of foreign energy has risen by 10% according to Customs' statistics. I see here that it would be possible to limit foreign energy sources by, among other things, requiring certified sources of this foreign wood from which the wood has been imported and cut. This has probably been under discussion for 10 years to do this, but this is actually more of a matter for these different heating plants, and I hope that different municipal and other heating plants will take this issue up and deal, for example, with this certification and other means of using domestic energy rather than domestic energy.
