ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr StVM 45/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 February 2021. In the general debate, Minna Reijonen, supported by Riikka Purra, has proposed that the legal proposals contained in the objection be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 29/2020 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 February 2021. In the debate, Ms Purra, supported by Jussi Halla-aho, has tabled three statements of opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u3	Proposals for statements made during the debate shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u4	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u5	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! [Representatives shall leave the Chamber after the votes — — — — Don't go anywhere now. [Laughter — The President knocks] During the last government term, in 2015, a test was carried out in Finland during which the car changer received compensation for the old car when changing to a new car. In this case, the car to be scrapped had to be over 10 years old and replaced by a low - emission car. Import the experiment Juha During the Sipilä government, 8,000 cars were refurbished. Since that first experiment and campaign worked well, the scrapping premium was reinstated in 2018. At that time, the scrapping premium was spent on the purchase of nearly 7,000 new cars, and about 90 per cent of the EUR 8 million allocated at that time was spent. The money came into good use. During the reign of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, the scrapping premium system created under the leadership of the Centre Party, the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland wanted to promote the renewal of the car fleet, reduce emissions from traffic and improve road safety, and the scrapping premium worked well and faultfully. The present left-wing government of Sanna Marin decided to continue with it. But what in God’s name — how could legislation that worked twice as well get so badly mixed up as it has now? How was it that the Marin government and the Ministry of Transport and Communications were able to screw up the system that was already used twice and found to be good? I can't believe it. Traficom announced in December 2020 that it would be possible to use the EUR 2000 scrapping premiums for several cars for the purchase of a new low-emission car. Traficom confirmed the information with a special bulletin of 18 January 2021. The Marin Government’s scrapping fee bill then rose and, after that, the Ministry of Transport and Communications sent a message to Traficom a few days later, on 22 January. On receiving the message, Traficom removed the quiet kitty’s own press release and changed its message on 25 January 2021, saying that only one car that could be scrapped can be used to buy a new low-emission car. Well, according to the guidelines received from Traficom, more than 200 car owners were able to scrap more cars in accordance with the legislation in force, even though it was decided to pay compensation afterwards for only one. Traficom informed the car changers for almost two months that more than one car would be eligible for the scrapping premium. Tuovi Valtonen, Head of Tax Service at Traficom, confirmed, for example, to the Evening Journal on 21 December 2020 that ‘a large number of scrap certificates are also being used by a single car’. The Tax Service Manager further underlined:‘This is the case even though it He continues that‘on the Marin’s government and the Ministry of Transport and Communications then submitted a proposal to correct the law in a hurry. In mid-January, it was reported that the government was proposing a prompt clarification of the car scrapping premium law so that it could not be lumped. The law, which entered into force at the beginning of December, has therefore not defined any limit on the maximum amount of the scrapping premium, that is, this so-called bundling, which, in accordance with the law, allowed for the chaining of several scrapping premiums and the theoretical purchase of a new low-emission car, even with only scrapping premiums. Whether it was right or not, you can think about it, but that is what the Ministry of Transport and Communications decided in its legislation. Today, then, Parliament is discussing this amendment of the law. Article 2 A clause has been added under which only one scrapping premium may be granted. So there has been a clear error in the law, a loophole, unintentional or perhaps even deliberately done, but in any case it is now being changed. Mr President! If Traficom, under the authority of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, instructs people to act according to the law in force and people act accordingly, then it cannot be the fault of an individual person. I consider it absolutely essential that the Marin government, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and Traficom in one way or another compensate people for the financial losses caused by their bad legislation. Of course, applications for scrapping premiums submitted prior to the correction of the law should be dealt with in accordance with existing legislation for the years 2020 to 2021. Whether bundling has been right or not, it has at least been in accordance with the law prepared by the Marin Government and the Ministry of Transport and Communications and approved by Parliament. And that which is the law must surely be observed in this land.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u6	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u7	Madam President! Of course, this scrapping premium law is a good starting point, but there are some ambiguities here that need to be raised and clarified. Firstly, at first reading — and I will renew what Mr Heinonen said there — I said that people who have acted in good faith in accordance with the instructions of the authorities must not become sufferers but must be fully compensated for the damage they suffer. On the criminal court side there is even such a basis for forgiveness if the authority gives false information. This is only a matter of contract law, so that this can also be complied with, especially since Traficom has not yet adopted any decision on these so-called lump sum premiums. It is completely incomprehensible if long-term and costly judicial proceedings are to be initiated in order to deal with this matter. In the referral debate, Minister Harakka stated: ‘Now the situation is that decisions taken by the Transport and Communications Office can then be appealed to the Administrative Court. “ I do not think that this should be the case. Yes, these people must be compensated for the damage that has been done, especially when they are the instructions given by the authority. It has been said here that Traficom alone has given these instructions. Well, that's not true. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has also issued false instructions similar to those given by Traficom. At the end of December, among other things, the citizen has been advised as follows — here is a quote: ‘A uniform low-emission car can be used for a greater fee. “ This is precisely the information provided by the Ministry on 29 December, i.e. Traficom alone did not provide this information. This is a matter of concern when the authorities give false information. But what is even more worrying, Madam President, is what we have been told in committee. In committee, a representative of the Ministry of Transport and Communications stated that this legislation was perfectly clear and was also included in the committee's report. This was done — we did not receive any information at the time that the Ministry has also provided false information. For me, this information came only here on Tuesday at first reading, that the Ministry has also shared incorrect information on this issue. It brings to a strange light the statement made by the official of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which he made a month later to the Committee on Transport and Communications, namely to us. Then the question arises as to what has happened. How much guidance has the Ministry given Traficom? It's the supervisor's office. The question arises as to who has known the issues in the Ministry and how they have been addressed. Minister Harakka, here in the referral debate on 3 February, said that he was informed on 4 January and took immediate action — I think that is correct. And then Minister Harakka said here: ‘In the granting of the scrapping premium there has been uncertainty in the Directorate for Transport and Communications. “ Well, that lack of clarity has arisen in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, led by Haraka. It surprises me that he has not really been informed, because he used the word ‘simplistic’ here, among other things, ‘for a simple ‘multiple’: for legislation’s self-explanatory’. Well, that's not what it is if his ministry does something different. In other words, the Committee on Transport and Communications has already decided, under the leadership of President Kymäläinen, to launch a report on this matter as a matter of its own. It must definitely be done. There are so many ambiguities in this official activity: who knew and knew what, and at worst, have we been given false information from some point of view? It's a serious matter. For everyone's legal security, this needs to be clarified, and we also need to find out how Traficom has been monitored. Okay, it does independent work on this issue, but the Department of Transport and Communications is the supervisor's office. It has the right but also the duty to supervise Traficom. It must exercise judicial control there; that is quite clear. Similarly, the ministry must monitor the activities of its own officials — who is responsible for it, which must also be clarified. The final result, however, is that citizens have been given false information and, at worst, they are suffering major financial losses, and this must not be the case. There are many elements to be clarified here, such as the treatment of citizens, but also how officials and ministers have acted and what information has been given to us in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u8	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u9	Madam President! This issue of scrapping premiums has indeed been very important and strange in Parliament as a whole. I was going through what has happened in all of this. Indeed, as has been pointed out, this legislation is perfectly clear in terms of its content, or so it has been laid down, and it is also in line with the legislation that has been adopted in the past. Nevertheless, on 21 December, the Head of Traficom has confirmed to the evening newspaper that there are several scrapping certificates for one car, and, Madam President, this is the one we are currently dealing with in Parliament. When this proposal was brought before us, we wanted answers from the representatives of the LVM and Traficom in the Committee on Transport and Communications, but I can say that the answers we were given were certainly not satisfactory. I didn't get the answers to all my questions. I asked, among other things, whether the Ministry of Transport and Communications has given guidance to the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency on how this law should be interpreted and my question was not answered. In the context of the referral debate, the Minister of Transport, Harakka, stated: ‘When the law was ready, one of us had no idea what was going on. “ Minister Harakka has constantly stressed that the reason for this is entirely the responsibility of the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom. However, as Mr Tolvanen has pointed out here, we have also learned that in December the Ministry of Transport and Communications has also given direct instructions to the citizen that more scrapping fees may be used per car. In other words, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which is headed by Minister Haraka, has also issued this same guidance from the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom. This now raises a legitimate question as to whether the Parliament has been misled by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and by the Minister of Transport Harakka. I do have a very special feeling as a member of the committee when we have gone through this, because the starting point has always been that Minister Harakka has stressed that this matter has been entirely the responsibility of the Agency and, indeed, their fault, but the information that has now come to light shows that the Ministry has also provided direct guidance on this issue. That is why it is very important that the Committee on Transport and Communications hears Minister Harakka and gets an accurate account of what has happened and how this process has gone overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u10	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u11	Madam President! Things have been well covered here, so I am not going to repeat them. But it is true that if a citizen acts on the advice of the law and the authorities, then he must have some kind of legal protection in such matters. You can't make a single person pay in this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u12	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u13	Madam President! This government proposal seeks to clarify the current law on scrapping premiums, and in practice one word, that is, one word, wants to clarify that current law. Is the current law in force clear — in my opinion it is a perfectly clear law and unambiguous. When the matter was dealt with in the Committee on Transport and Communications, the expert at the Ministry of Transport and Communications also stated that the law currently in force is sufficiently unambiguous in its wording and does not contain any margin of interpretation, either from the point of view of the regulatory package or from the point of view of the law. However, it has now become apparent in a very large number of cases that the competent authority, Traficom, has interpreted the matter in a different way and whether there has also been a different interpretation in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, is unclear. In my opinion, Finnish citizens should be able to rely on the instructions and advice of the authorities. And while the instructions have still been on Traficom's website, it is quite clear to me that citizens and car companies who have acted in good faith in this matter cannot suffer in this matter. It is very important that this issue is now being clarified within Traficom and also within the Ministry of Transport and Communications, why this has happened. We have also had scrapping premium laws in 2015 and 2018 that have the same content, and there has been virtually no ambiguity in their interpretation, i.e. from one car to one car a scrapping premium, that has been the starting point, and I personally hope that this principle will go further. The current law is unambiguous and now also this new law, which I hope will quickly go to decisions too, as it has progressed very quickly in the Committee on Transport and Communications. I would like to thank the whole committee for quickly dealing with this issue and bringing it forward in this regard. But I would also like to say that my own opinion is that citizens must be able to rely on instructions and advice from the authorities, e-mails, oral or telephone, and that citizens and car companies must not suffer financially here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u14	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u15	Madam President! I will continue with the commendable arguments of the previous speaker on how citizens must be able to rely on those decisions. It has been wonderful to follow this debate on scrapping premiums, but there has clearly been no opposition-government division. Of course, someone may view this as unreasonable, asking whether this is deliberately misled. I do not think it is, and I hope it is not, and the Minister is, of course, responsible for it. But the most important thing now is to think about what we learn from this telegram and what our ministries and agencies learn. This must not happen again, and the fact that the country's highest decision-making arena has now been allowed to hold this debate has also been a good indication that there is concern here about the citizens and the property of their citizens and their right to have their affairs dealt with as they should. I trust and hope that the committee, as the Vice-President has said here, will also bear that concern and ensure that citizens' rights are upheld.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u16	On this point, we still have three minutes to hold this debate here. Of course, we can leave it on the table, but let us see what Mr Risko has to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u17	Mr President! Hurry up, and they'll be able to get the rest of them. — The reason I stayed here to listen to this debate was because I was the minister who brought the first proposal for this scrapping premium in 2015. I used to think it was a little cross-thinking about whether this is sensible or not, but it has proved to be good and that is why it has been continued. Now that I have looked at this situation, when I have been contacted enormously, indeed, the wording has not changed in any way, that is, there is nothing wrong with this law. That is interesting now, and I am really interested in this because of my background, and now it is good to know what this is about. Well, you always have to remember that these are the things you learn from, but now it is important that the citizen, the consumer, does not suffer from this or the car shops. I believe that the priority now is to deal with this matter, and then, of course, we need to find out why and learn from it. However, the citizens do not now have to wait for ‘no’ to come to a conclusion on this matter’,andto ensurethattheirissues and their rights are protected. But the good thing is to find out, and it is good that we can get a report here in Parliament. I cannot believe, when I know the sector officials, that this is something that is meant to be, that is, something strange has happened here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u18	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u19	Madam President! Indeed, in the committee's timely timetable, we wanted to make this proposal by the government, an addition to one word, so to speak, to the scrapping premium repair package, which was the content of this in order to overcome these misinterpretations. All in all, as far as the things that have been repeated here on many occasions in all these parliamentary debates are concerned, this is a sad event and a bit strange, and that is why we in the committee are going to take it up as a matter of our own with Mr Traficom and the ministry on this issue so that we can learn from what has happened and how to act and ensure that this does not happen in the same way in the future. And as far as the challenge to the administrative court is concerned, I understood from the Minister's speech that, far from all cases, there have been such misconceptions in the register and others, who certainly then called for more detailed investigations by the judiciary. But Traficom will be in contact with every person who has applied for more than one scrapping fee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u20	We are almost in overtime, but Mr Peltokangas is still here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-12-ps-8.u21	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I took the floor on the excellent opening of Mr Tolvanen in the floor — a very good reflection, and there is a common concern. The idea of what has happened now is that I was pleased to hear the chairman of the committee also say that the matter will be raised and clarified. What is very important here is that, for those citizens who have been under the impression that there is a possibility of using more than one scrapping premium for one purchase, that right will be fulfilled. After all, it would be unreasonable for us, as legislators, to draw up a law and, when it comes into force, to give a certain signal to the citizens and the citizen to act according to the law, then afterwards to have problems or responsibilities for this. Let's hope it's solved and everything's gonna be all right. - Have a good weekend.
