ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents has proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 3 February 2021. Contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, Riikka Purra Hanna Holopainen has proposed that the Administrative Committee should also deliver an opinion to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. At its meeting on 4 February 2021, the Council of Presidents revised its earlier proposal and proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u2	When the revised proposal of the Council of Presidents is the same as that of Riikka Purra, the proposal of the Council of Presidents is expected to be adopted?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u3	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. — Representative Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u4	Madam President! In its special report, the National Audit Office says that the government's efforts to deal with the corona crisis have been in the right direction and that the impact of the crisis should continue to be mitigated by active fiscal policies. In this case, the spending framework for central government finances will be maintained as widely as possible. For the government's sustainability road map, the agency needs clarifications. As we have heard in recent days, there has been a somewhat worrying lack of debt and expenditure in the government's ranks. The Agency also deplores the government's employment objectives. According to the Agency, the budgetary strengthening effects of the employment decisions taken during the parliamentary term are modest. Dodging demands, moving decisions, retorting goals. The Agency notes that there is a risk that the increase in employment described in the Government sustainability roadmap will not even achieve the desired budgetary impact, but is an optimistic assumption that the employment measures to be implemented will not entail any cost to public finances. And this is the other way around: most government activities cost public finances. VTV stresses that consolidation after the fiscal crisis requires planning and commitment to medium-term economic planning. The rapid growth of debt is not seen as a burden for the immediate future in the world of low interest rates. However, it is necessary to stabilise the debt ratio as the management of public finances should not be based on the assumption of a permanent low interest rate. Mr President! Therefore, while the time for a strong recovery continues, the government should at least prepare itself to tighten fiscal policy with consistent plans and records, the precise implementation of which would of course depend on the cessation of the epidemic, particularly as a result of vaccination, and, of course, on other general economic prospects. Of course, blackmail should be targeted at the upturn. In parallel with the recovery, structural reforms and the necessary fiscal adjustment measures should be outlined right now. Prioritising expenditure should be done at all times and especially for the future. Our sustainability problems are chronic, not caused by a pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u5	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u6	President! The employment targets are the most important part of the government's economic policy. However, the employment target and the sustainability map set out in the autumn 2020 budget debate do not constitute a coherent whole, as the timetable for employment measures and the debt sustainability calculation are not consistent. The budgetary implications of the employment decisions taken so far during the electoral period are modest, according to the Agency's assessment. The current version of the road map is based on a very optimistic assumption that the employment measures to be implemented would not cost public finances at all. This is a big surprise.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u7	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u8	Mr President! Almost a year ago, the corona crisis that really started in Finland has surprised many with its scale. Korona still controls news and government policy. The most recent threat is the various mutations of the virus. This report on fiscal surveillance rightly states that the government's response to the corona crisis has been in the right direction in terms of timing and scale. Active fiscal policy is the right instrument to mitigate the effects of the corona crisis. One of the conclusions of the report is that the government has responded with its economic policy to the crisis in a timely manner. It is easy to agree with this, because the government intervened with great determination last spring and helped entrepreneurs in distress, including through large-scale support packages, by reducing red tape on layoffs and by temporarily amending the bankruptcy law. Mr President! So far, our economy has been better off than many competing countries in the context of an acute crisis. Of course, it is worth remembering that, as a post-cyclical economy, the effects will probably be felt by us in many other countries later. So far, Finland has managed to manage the disease situation in a European comparison excellently, since since the beginning of the epidemic we have the least-diagnosed cases across Europe and the third least deaths since Iceland and Norway. Good management of the disease situation is also the best medicine for the economy, as the example of Sweden has shown — it is a negative example. Sweden kept its long-term society considerably more open than its neighbouring country, resulting in significantly higher levels of infection and corona deaths than its neighbours. In addition, the strategy chosen has not helped the Swedish economy, but the key economic figures, such as GDP, have been weaker than Finland and other neighbours during the corona period. Although Sweden held a much wider open society in spring 2020 than Finland, private consumption decreased equally in both countries. In the second quarter of 2020, Sweden's gross domestic product contracted by 8.8 per cent and in Finland by 4.4 per cent at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u9	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This special report from the National Audit Office will hopefully be read very carefully by the Government and ministers. Mr Purra gave an excellent opening speech in this debate and made the main points of this special report by the Audit Office well known. Mr Koponen also gave a good speech on these particular concerns that have been raised here. Public finances are not being balanced by the efforts of this left-wing government, and employment measures are being left behind, as has been mentioned several times in this debate, even the National Audit Office is being modest. During the last parliamentary term, the central Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, together with the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland, led this country, and over 140,000 new jobs were created in this country during the last parliamentary term. There has been some debate today about allowing one national media to understand that the figure would be lower, but one must remember that this whole — 140,000 new jobs, 80,000 full-time for the private sector — is a figure that is true. It contains a wide range of measures. There was a competitiveness pact, there was wage moderation, there was a reduction in the taxation of labour and a number of measures which, unfortunately, Helsingin Sanomat has not gone through in his own case. At the end of the game, ladies and gentlemen, it will determine what appears below the line, and at the moment the Sanna Marin government has been able to make decisions in practice so that the end of the flood is minus, and of course the corona plague on top, and 74,000 more unemployed people have come into this country. The Marin government has not been able to respond at all to this situation so that it has been able to lighten this attack and help it. The situation of businesses, Mr President, is very difficult. In fact, these days we have come up with a number of reports of bankruptcies, and I personally hope that this situation will now actually be dealt with strongly by this government. Then these are our children and young people: I personally hope that in 10 to 20 years' time there will not be a debate in this Chamber which states that do not now make the same mistakes that were made... [The President knocks ] — — — — Mr President, I will take it from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u11	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u12	Mr President! This report on fiscal surveillance contains a number of good points, of which I would like to highlight a few in particular. The first is a reminder that the spending limits rule must be respected and returned when the time comes. This reminder is important in that, although debt has been inevitable now because of this covid situation, the feeling here is that the government is not taking debt seriously at the moment. There is a certain frivolity in it, economic figures may not even be of great interest, at least they are not quite the top priority in the government's speeches. So attention to compliance with and return to the spending limits rule is important. The second point is that sensitivity calculations should be made in connection with the sustainability road map. This means that what happens at the level of public debt if something happens in the economy. For example, in the past, before this interest rate situation, there were these sensitivity calculations in the budgetary plan and there was an interesting table that if GDP growth fell even by 1% in the basic career, it means a decline of around 10 percentage points over the government term, over four years, compared to the GDP-debt ratio. This is an important issue, and it is actually only emphasised because, now that these various support instruments have been introduced, there is a different recovery fund, which was last talked about in this Chamber big yesterday, then there is ESM and others — so it is possible that these will also become additional contributions to Finland's payment. There is also the possibility in this recovery fund that if any other country fails to make its own payments according to the payment plan, then they will be paid to others.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u13	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u14	Madam President! A good debate has been held here on the basis of this special report from the National Audit Office on how public finances have been managed during this parliamentary term. It is of course the case that recovery is necessary in this situation, but yes, Mr Park said quite well — I do not remember whether he used the term ‘ loose hand ’ — the way in which the current government has managed public finances. I've been wondering about that, too. Although I understand this resuscitation and I understand corporate subsidies and I understand that we are now trying to keep this system running, and I understand that the interest rate will result in extra costs, vaccination and remember, and that they should get them going even faster, so that in such times, there will be an increase in permanent expenses, such as extending the compulsory education age, I do not understand. That we are constantly increasing the burden of public finances, even though our own solvency and carrying capacity have been weakened. This is the big problem. The second problem, which has also been mentioned in the report, is what the Economic Policy Review Council has well said that this government does not even have a plan to balance this public finances in due course when this period of interest is over — even if it has not been done. It is also proposed that there should be a parliamentary working party to do this, and that is certainly one option, because it would of course be important for more than one government period to be able to work together, but of course it requires that the government itself be proactive and take this matter seriously. Mr President! Then, of course, it is a question of employment: The measures that have been taken to promote employment — although something has been done here since Christmas — are totally inadequate, as Mr Heinonen has well described. 74,000 is already an increase in unemployment, and this wave of bankruptcy is only starting at the beginning of February. We now have many entrepreneurs who go bankrupt or who survive without bankruptcy but who have to quit their businesses, and then there are those workers who have lost their jobs because of interest rate or interest rate restrictions, and it would be extremely important for them to get new jobs as quickly as possible. In these employment measures of the TE administration and also in these various incentive schemes, the focus should be on preventing these people from running into long-term unemployment. We know that even six months of continuous unemployment will multiply the risk of long-term unemployment, which means that this is a really important moment for us to act immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u15	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u16	Madam President! Indeed, when you read this report from the National Audit Office, there is legitimate concern here that the budgetary situation has deteriorated. It is obvious when the debt has been taken and the situation has been serious, but the interest rate also ends in due course. The measures that have been taken to tackle it have been very successful and we must have a strong view from now on of the fact that the interest rate will be won and then return to the so-called normal order of things. It is essential to get a top on government debt, and the second is that fiscal stability should be re-established. We cannot go on indefinitely so that public finances go downhill, because it has a very rapid effect. If there is a situation in which the interest rate on government debt is rising, which is also to be feared, then we will be in real, real trouble. There are two points, Madam President, to which I would like to draw attention: The second is that I was currently reading a blog or writing by a Member of the European Parliament in Sarvamaa, I think it was the future of the countryside in relation to the European Union's forestry policy. There are huge threats facing Finland. We are consciously restricting the use of forests in Finland, and that is a very serious matter. I do not understand why our officials, or who, are taking the wrong messages to them that we must now begin to calm down our forests. We are about to set or want to set a 30% conservation target for old forests. The Finnish Parliament must now be sensible in this regard and forbid such a procedure. Under our accession treaty, Finland must be able to decide independently on forest policy, absolutely. It is worth reminding all Finnish parliamentarians — not just those in the Chamber, but everyone else — that about one-fifth of the value of Finland's export trade comes from products of the forest industry, and, in addition to the metal industry that has been created in Finland by the forest industry — a strong metal industry, a strong chemical industry, energy production — they form a package that makes it best for us to stick to the use of our forests as before and increase the level of processing. If we cannot use our natural resources, this nation will get hurt. Secondly, energy production: Now that decisions have been made in this climate drug that peat is being abandoned, we are developing into a huge bomb in Finland. I am not referring to any material threat, but to an enormous threat of crisis that is so serious that it must be tackled immediately. We're running out of fuel at the power plants. This year will come to an end, Madam President, but the use of biofuels for the next year, the combined use of wood chips and peat, has already been compromised in some areas when there is no fuel left. The fuels of this hour are driven from Russia, and believe it or not, ladies and gentlemen, we have this day,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u22	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u23	Irade the Talman! It talked about a tax change in peat, something which, of course, was also the subject of a coalition for a year and a half from a strict government of your own. So that's it. Of course, the balancing of public finances is essential, and it is quite right that the plan that we have now is still inadequate in terms of concreteity, and it is essential that, during this spring, there should be concrete and perhaps even more ambition. Even the raising of ambition is a prerequisite for us to have done exceptionally well in this crisis. The situation looks much brighter today than it did six months ago. But what has been done? There is talk of employment here. Today there was a distinguished article in the Helsingin Sanomat, which indeed stated that when we compare the concrete acts, we are already on the same line as the previous government. [ At the end of his term [Timo Heinonen: Not true!] Mr Heinonen said that it was not possible to respond to the situation. Yes, Finland has responded quite well to the situation. Because of this crisis, Finland's economy is the least stricken in the whole of Europe. That means that the right things have been done here at the right time. This will lead to a deficit of less than expected last year. This will probably lead to a better one this year than anticipated. Of course, this is partly due to the fact that vaccinations are now well underway and the cost of testing is likely to be lower than the amount of money earmarked for. Congressman Heinonen said the right thing about children and young people. These are, of course, decisions taken at local level, but there is reason to be concern about what happens when you have to be separated from your friends, you have to spend a long time in remote education. Next autumn, when the matriculation exams are written again, a large number of those who have been perhaps even half their high school hours in distance education are very serious. Therefore, it is worth considering that, now that we are getting ahead with the vaccinations, perhaps we should prioritize this group in order to get the children back to normal school life as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-05-ps-4.u24	The proceedings shall be suspended in the event of a meeting of the large committee.
