ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u1	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. — I will open the debate. Congressman Laiho, please. The introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u2	Mr President! The bill on the so-called facial mask obligation has already been submitted in 2020. Although it is only now being dealt with, it has not become obsolete in any way. With facial masks, the government has had stumbling from the very beginning, starting with their acquisition and also their use. In May 2020, I took an initiative for the government to introduce a face mask obligation to use them in public transport and in other public spaces where it is not possible to keep a safety distance. In order to prevent the spread of interest, we need all possible tools that can be used to prevent, for example, emergency conditions and the introduction of the Emergency Act. The National Institute for Health and Welfare issued a facial mask recommendation in autumn 2020 and it took some time for citizens to learn how to use them, but now we have them, let's say, already on a daily basis. At the moment, we are already discussing when we can give up face masks in the future. The government has adopted its corona strategy last week, and it has very few tools for how to open Finland in the future and how to prevent new epidemics and possible variations from the virus in the future. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health is currently debating a draft amendment to Article 58d, in which the government proposes to amend the article in question in the case of a two-metre security interval. The Coalition Party has proposed, through its own legislative initiative, that this whole section should be repealed, because this section itself is superfluous and security distances are taken into account elsewhere in the Act on communicable diseases. However, it would be important for Article 58 of the Act on communicable diseases to: will be brought to Parliament as quickly as possible, as it will require clarifications. There are many ambiguities and contradictions, and there are also points that conflict with the government's updated interest rate strategy, which should be changed. This bill, which I have made, also applies to this Article 58. In other words, we could introduce a face mask obligation as a tool there, an opportunity to introduce it in a situation where the infectious disease situation requires it. Of course, it should now be introduced as one tool, because then it will be easy to implement. People already know how to use it, and that would not be such a big problem or a threshold for its use. In this bill I have also suggested that, if it were compulsory to wear a mask, masks should be available free of charge. That amendment could be made to Section 58. Mr President! The interest rate situation is not over yet in Finland, and new corulers can come, and we need to be able to live and react quickly enough if the situation gets there. We also need to be better able to ensure that traders are able to continue their activities, whether they are culture, events, sports, various opportunities or the continuation of school-based education. In order to prevent the spread of infection, facial masks are an important tool, and it is certainly not worth noting that the Act on communicable diseases is an opportunity if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u3	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! I would like to thank Mrs Laiho, the vice-president of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, for her excellent presentation and for the fact that at least someone is going through these issues and is wondering what should be done. After all, this week the Left-wing government of Marin presented its own corona strategy. The good thing about it is that it points some way towards the old normal, but there are more open questions and uncertainties. The general approach of trying to get rid of harsh restrictions is the right one, and at least I do not want to be content with talking about something new normal, but, yes, our aim must be an old normal life in which we can continue what it was like before this corona came here. It is good to give up the acceleration and spread phase of the terms. At the moment, the rate of infection is illustrating the severity of the corona, and therefore it makes sense to move on to the monitoring of hospital capacity and to look at where you are going instead of this incidence rate. I'd also like to thank you for the emergency brake check. It is perhaps a little related to this now, as Mr Laiho suggests in the draft of the Assembly, that there are also ways of reacting quickly in those situations when the situation may get worse or there will be new, similar types of pandemics in our country. That's what this emergency brake is good for. Well, in that corona strategy, perhaps one of my concerns is that it is built on 80% vaccine coverage. Now that I look at recent statistics, in almost all age groups, the second vaccine has been omitted by about 4 percent or even more, and the accessibility of that 80% vaccine coverage may well be challenging. In my opinion, a more correct way would be to do that, once 80% of the adult population has been able to be given the possibility of vaccination, then we have achieved it and we are going to open it up. It cannot be that the Minister The kiuru keeps us in these yokes of corona to the world’s pin if people refuse to take vaccines, but then the responsibility must be reversed so that people who are double-vaccinated, fully vaccinated, can move towards the old normal, and those who do not want to take the vaccine will then be in a different position, and this corona passport, for example, would respond. And I would like to underline that it is absolutely not the intention that if a person cannot take a vaccine for health reasons, he will not have the opportunity to do so, but will have to have that possibility of testing or then a diseased corona on the bottom there as two other options. The Coalition Party has made a proposal this week to abolish Article 58d of the Act on Disease Control. We want to give it up altogether. It would clarify the organisation of cultural events, sporting events, theatres and other types of events. Let us hope that we will have the support of the Centre during the parliamentary procedure — at least the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, a representative The salmon seemed to understand this initiative by the coalition. Well, then, from this bill by Mrs Laiho on the amendment of Articles 58 and 81 of the Act on Contagion. This has been submitted to Parliament last Christmas, 2 December 2020, and now it is necessary to ask whether Parliament can act in this way to bring legislative initiatives to the table almost on their birthday. Even in this bill there have been important measures for that time, but, as Mr Laiho pointed out, these measures are not obsolete at the moment. Perhaps the need for them is no longer so comprehensive at the moment, but, as with this emergency brake, there is little provision to be made for measures to be taken in situations where the situation requires it. However, in my opinion, there must be a serious debate in this House as to whether parliamentaryism can be put on the switchboard to wait for a situation so that it is only in accordance with the will of one minister. Unfortunately, that is what this corona treatment has looked like recently. Warm support for Mr Laiho's bill. Let us hope that these measures will be introduced in this section 58 of the Act on Disease Control, which we need in this situation, but we will also need in the future when similar situations arise or this covid-19 is going into a new, fourth or fifth wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u5	Thank you. — Mr Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u6	Mr President! You can't change the past, but you can learn from it and try to be smarter in the future. Mr Laiho is right in this initiative that, before taking drastic action, such as the declaration of exceptional circumstances, every effort must be made to do everything possible, such as, if necessary, the obligation to wear a mask, within the framework of normal legislation. This initiative has also taken into account an important issue, namely the availability of free masks. Mr Heinonen has also just made a very good speech on the subject. Thank you, Mr. Laiho, for his good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u7	Thank you. — Representative Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u8	Mr President! It was a little unclear whether Mr Heinonen supported this mask or not. He did compliment this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u11	Without opening the debate, I will give Mr Heinos an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u12	Mr President! As I said, this bill was taken a year ago in December, which means that it has taken almost a year for him to come to this Chamber and, of course, it has been done in that time, but, as Mr Laiho said in his speech, it has not expired. We must have the possibility of making masks compulsory if the situation gets worse or if there are new pandemics. So here we look to the future, to the future, if things start to get worse. At the moment the situation is that we can certainly, in large part, hopefully give up masks, and I fully agree that we should also be able to talk about those disadvantages, or about care for the elderly or care for children, because people with dementia, for example, do not see their faces. It must also be possible to come to these things and then go towards the so-called old normal. In that sense, I am in favour of this bill as a precaution for the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u13	Thank you. — Representative Savola, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u14	Mr President! Of course, always before, when the people of the United States have listened, they have been very much emphasizing this individual's freedom and people's own choices, and it is interesting in itself that this kind of obligation now since these masks have even been billed. The use of masks, of course, during this kind of pandemic period has been justified. We, too, are still using it here, but now we have a strategy in this country and objectives in this country to get rid of this. The vaccine coverage is beginning to be good in this country and rising, and when it is at an adequate level, then let's go back to normal. I am sure that afterwards we will know and the studies will show the benefits and the disadvantages of all these measures, what we have had to do during this pandemic. In his speech, Mr Heinonen also raised the time for this bill to be dealt with. At least when I myself have tabled legislative initiatives sometimes during this parliamentary career, there has been a debate with the central assembly about when it will come to this Chamber, and I am a little surprised if it has gone so long without a representative's own will, before it is here, but perhaps Mr Laiho can comment on it himself. I myself have at least considered the practices of the Central Assembly to be quite good and the security we representatives have in this legislative work as a whole. But the sum summarum: the bill, which has now been submitted, will certainly be dealt with properly here. But this obligation itself: I would have some reservations about it, because I am confident that people will be able to make their own choices about wearing masks, among other things. And all in all, the goal must now be to get from here to normal. Perhaps the most important message for the citizens now is that you should take the vaccine, take the vaccine again, and that is how we will be able to open up this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u15	At this stage, I would like to say that, in the context of this situation of interest rates, there has been a joint agreement on the rules of play between Parliament's groups and the Council of Presidents on the fact that there have been no issues other than urgent and corona issues here, and that is the reason why this bill is only being discussed here. — Representative Pirttäähti, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mr Laiho for taking the initiative, although time has passed. I personally see, however, that these voluntary measures have achieved quite a lot in transport, for example. Indeed, HSL and also then OnniBus and VR and many other companies have voluntarily introduced this mask, and so it has become quite familiar. Of course, in Parliament and elsewhere, these masks have been introduced through the recommendations, and this has become used to. This is probably the starting point for this Laiho show. As he initialized, so there was a little stumbling at the beginning of where masks were obtained and how they were started to be used. Of course, when this kind of new pandemic became for us, so were probably a little bit of chips mixed up. It is good to discuss whether it is binding or whether it is voluntary, and I myself will turn to its voluntary nature. But I think it is a good thing that the legislation in this regard, including that in Article 58, will be looked at again, and indeed, as the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon, has said, there will probably also be a broader return to this issue than in this section and its items. I personally see that it would be good if these masks did not have to be used, and yes, I am encouraging everyone to have this vaccine coverage of course. Now we have a little more than 50% double vaccinations, and possibly we may get another third vaccination because of a pandemic. Yes, I would recommend it. Then we can give up these masks when this vaccine coverage is sufficient. We must also thank the people at this point that masks have been used and distances kept. In Finland, the situation has been excellent in relation to many other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u17	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u18	Mr President! One of the top doctors in the United States recently found that this corona is something we should be lulling into the idea that the corona has come to stay, that is, no time after the corona does not exist, but this virus revolves around the world in one form or another, sometimes being a little more severe and sometimes a little softer. As Mr Pirttila has well described, it is important that we all take the vaccine and thereby obtain the best possible protection. Even that, as we know, does not provide 100% security, but it does give the assurance that the worst long covid will not strike, and if the disease does come, then very little will happen. I wonder about the people who haven't taken this vaccine. Such a magical, primitive attitude toward vaccines amazes me. It is worth remembering that all of us, including Members of Parliament and officials sitting here, must have been vaccinated a hundred times as a child and have been well protected against all diseases and we have been healthy and enjoyed living a healthy life. If we hadn't had this option, there'd be less of us here. So the diseases are so serious that it is worth taking the vaccine and then using these masks when necessary. I wonder, too, that when we all have people close to us who may not be in the best possible condition because of their own health, or who are susceptible to serious corona disease, even in such cases the matter is treated indifferently. I can't understand the fact that someone would want something bad for their loved ones. That's the kind of idea I can't understand. I hope that reason will prevail here too. When necessary, use these protective equipment and obtain that vaccine protection, and I believe that in two years' time we will be in a much, much better situation. In the meantime.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u19	Thank you. — The author of the initiative, Mr Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u20	Mr President! Thank you for a lively debate on the legislative initiative, which in part ran the other way. Mr Ovaska is certainly well aware that this bill has indeed been tabled almost a year ago, but this issue is only being dealt with now and, as President Rinne has well explained, what has been the situation, which is why this bill has not been dealt with before: in accordance with Parliament's agreement, legislative initiatives have been waiting because there have been exceptional working arrangements. Savola will also be informed if this has not been known.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u23	Thank you. — Representative Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u24	Mr President! This is exactly the point. Now you say that this is the situation and that a year ago was different, but there must be these and these and these means. But you have just said, for example, with regard to this Act on communicable diseases, that there should be no means available to the regional authorities if there is, for example, a major cluster of infections. So there it is and you want it off, but in terms of the compulsoryity of masks, you want to force people to wear masks. So there is now a clear contradiction in your strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u25	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-10-ps-95.u26	Mr President! I do not think that there is any contradiction between the possibility that, in law, if the epidemic situation is difficult, the obligation to wear facial masks could be introduced. On the other hand, I am opposed to the situation being allowed to be so bad that emergency facilities are declared and schools are placed in remote schools, everything is closed, hobbies are suspended and business life is severely restricted. I do not think that it is in the interests of the people, nor is it in the interests of the Finns.
