ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 4/2021 vp. The debate and proceedings were suspended today at the plenary session on 12 May 2021 at 14 p.m. — The debate continues. Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u2	Mr President! The Finns are opposed to the creation of a Recovery Fund, Finland's participation in the Recovery Fund, the integration of the Recovery Fund into the EU's 2021 to 2027 budget period and the direction of the own resources system towards the EU tax base. We are also opposed to the disguise of the income transfer and euro crisis package as a corona recovery package. The committee's opinion itself lists a number of concerns related to the proposal under discussion, which are shared by the Finns. However, the conclusions drawn from the same findings differ from those drawn in the opinion of the committee. It is wrong to approve first the sustainable growth programme, then the decision on own resources and finally, if time and interest remain, to reflect on the future of the European Union and Finland's position on alternative development policies. A fundamental debate on federal development should take place first, then assess the importance of the recovery package, then consider the financing of the package and only finally consider where the funds could be allocated. The objective of the chosen order of business is likely to have been to facilitate the adoption of the package at national level. Once it has been decided how the money is to be distributed, it has been easier to persuade the parliaments of the net contributor countries to accept the proposal. The recovery package related to the proposal has been called exceptional, fixed-term and one-off on the part of the Government. In the EU, there is nothing new or exceptional about loans and direct transfers granted or guaranteed by other countries to support over-indebtedness countries or businesses. According to the interpretation of the True Finns, the proposal is a package of support for the euro crisis. Since the package is already in force in this configuration until 2058, calling it a fixed term stretches the concept drastically. So we already know that the package will be a nuisance for decades and that the decisions on new own resources taken in connection with it and the subsequent roll-over of loans into new loans will last a long time. The Committee's opinion also states that the recovery fund represents a long-term change. With regard to precision, consideration should also be given to the indirect consequences of the decisions taken. Although it can be argued that the proposal sets a clear maximum limit for Finland's liabilities, it ignores the indirect effects. Does the arrangement increase moral hazard and thus new problems and the need for new crisis packages? Is the package once adopted helping to facilitate the adoption of the following, certainly future, packages? The Committee's opinion states that recovery is justified by the presence of a corona pandemic and that all countries should be able to revive. In our view, this is an attempt to say that even those countries that have already been over-indebted should be allowed to revive and thus become more indebted. And if an individual country does not have sufficient debt-taking capacity, other Member States should either make this recovery expenditure directly payable or at least to guarantee it. True Finns feel that this view is wrong and dangerous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u3	Congressman Juuso. — Is Mr Juuso gone? Apparently. There's a dead corner here. I can't always see. Congressman Juuso is gone. — — — — Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Last summer, on 12 June, I was myself an alternate member of the Constitutional Committee when we discussed this recovery fund in advance as a recovery plan. At that time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs already stressed that, among other things, the order of business will be reviewed when this own resources decision, which we are now discussing, comes here to Parliament. This is a good thing to take into account now that, for example, there have been speeches here today and a great deal of speeches from that ministerial committee and, in particular, from the Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, that once we have shook hands — hand on hand, we have all been promised. Now I wonder if Prime Minister Marin has not told you last summer that we have such an institution as Parliament and Parliament's decision-making and constitution and this reading takes place in Parliament only after we have this own resources proposal here. I am surprised that there is such arrogance on this issue. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stressed that ‘the evaluation of the order of procedure and the safeguarding of participation in the appropriate The Constitutional Committee finds it particularly regrettable that ‘The Commission’s practice does notrequire any attention to the effects of the measures taken, but ratherthe obligation to ‘—listen,representativeKiljunen—’to assess These are very important statements from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I am surprised to see that it has been said here all the time in the ministerial box that there is no problem here that everything is really, really well. The Constitutional Affairs Committee’s opinion 14/2021, which concerns the government’s proposal now being discussed, states from last summer’s point of view: ‘For reasons of constitutional law,the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Council of State’s serious ‘serious’ concern is to limit the Union’s borrowing and the associated Member State’s direct or indirectresponsibility for Union grant aid and to ensure the overall accountability and budgetary sovereignty of the Member State. The criteria presented by the Constitutional Committeein its Well,the committee reports on the fact that the committee will follow up on this point:‘In the We are on this issue now, and it is justified here that the legal services have given this opinion. Well, the Constitutional Committee is not convinced of that and it is good to note that during the hearings of the Constitutional Committee, constitutional experts also told us that this is an advisory body and serves the interests of the EU and it is good to note that it is not an independent court. So there are serious, serious problems with this package. This was, Mr Kiljunen, among other things, very detailed details for you when you wanted these. I hope you will comment on how you are now convinced whether you disagree with the Constitutional Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u6	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u7	Madam President! The debate on the aid package, and also the defence of it, have also had some very passionate but opinion-sharing features in this Chamber today. Now I would like to highlight the lever attached to the recovery instrument as one of the most important, excellent insights. In economics, leverage refers to the pursuit of profits, e.g. with debt money, which is expected to outweigh the cost of debt management. Figuratively speaking, debt leverage is also referred to as the ability acquired by means of debt to invest more than one's own money could afford. This debt lever is familiar to almost every buyer of a dwelling, but few think about it from the point of view that there would be a debt to increase the return on their investment when the rate of return is calculated from the capital invested itself. In the EU, leverage has already been used in the past, including leverage, to increase the capacity of the EFSF, but so that Member States do not have to pay more to the Fund. This would be done, for example, by providing a partial guarantee for loans from crisis countries, in which case investors are expected to be more willing to lend them more. Thus, Vi Red would be a partial guarantee of the debt that would tempt the crisis countries to borrow a much higher amount of money compared to the amount of the guarantee. Now, Mr President, the leverage of the aid package is national. On several occasions, the Minister of Finance and also the representatives of the Central Party have flagged strongly for leverage. The aid package for Finland is in the pipeline, well, it is still uncertain, but perhaps about 2.5 billion, of which, of course, only part will be spent on future investments. In public, the government, with very hopeful words, has praised this brilliant idea, that is to say, leverage, and yet it is not so straightforward. The idea of leverage through public funding is a step in the right direction, but it is highly questionable whether politicians and the administrative machinery can find or not reach the right investment targets for society and the economy. How do we find those companies that create maximum new and at the same time have liquidity from their own backs? However, the State’s investment is likely to be lower, i.e. part of the investment, and the entrepreneur will be left responsible for the risk and also the most significant part of the investment. That is why it is good to remember that only about one third of the EUR 700 billion that we will receive, perhaps with interest, will return to us. Is this also the case that decision-makers prefer to leverage the economies of countries such as Italy? Would it not be the only and the right way for us to leverage our own economy and business by the entire 7 billion? In this way we would be able to create many times more than this investment of around 2.5 billion. From what we've heard, we could even be saved by this much higher amount. The Minister of Finance has estimated that society’s investment in businesses could at best even lead to companies themselves investing nine times their capital in projects — something he has mentioned in some context. This kind of leverage would be a lottery win for Finland. The good question is whether this kind of equation is going to happen. I'm sure we can all agree on that in this situation. I wonder, however, that if leverage is the key word — and it has now been much cultivated — and at the same time a solution to the problems that exist, why does this rise to the top of the stick, so to speak? Would this not have been a great shortcut to happiness and success for us? That is why I support the fact that we could leverage this entire EUR 6.6 billion or EUR 7 billion — which it may eventually be — and that is how we can get Finland's economy back on the road to economic growth. That would be the right way. We Finns love Finland and Finns, and that is why we do not support this support package either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u8	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u9	Mr President! In the coming weeks, Parliament will vote on the package of aid originally presented to us under the name of the corona recovery package. The more debate has taken place, the clearer the understanding of the unacceptable basic nature of the package has also become. The more critical the arguments of the opponents, the more serious and nervous and open to interpretation have been the own arguments of the government and other supporters of the package. I am particularly pleased that social media enable people to follow their active policies and join the debate. I would like to thank all the citizens and those who have studied this issue, who have shared their views and inspired a wider civil debate around this issue. It's democracy at its best. Fortunately, this time the mainstream media did not fall into such unilateral communication but has also raised these other aspects. I am not going to repeat the billions that have already been expressed in the speeches of several representatives — I will have time to do so in the morning — or to describe the unspeakable deal of the hobby. Is it true that they alone cause its famous reputation disadvantage to Finland? So that's it. What does corona have to do with digitalisation and green transition? And what does this have to do with the EU budget? There's no way. Is the interest rate not a crisis big enough that the package should have been dealt with separately and as soon as possible? Was it just an excuse to open a gateway to deeper integration, that is, a federal state? Is it a crisis in the euro, but it is not something to be said out loud? Well, it certainly won't last without fiscal transfers. Looks like we're saving the banks again. Each of these alone is a serious crisis, so serious that the EU is once again trampling on its own treaties. The 'No bail-out' principle has long since been thrown into a scrap heap, so it is no longer a dream to return to it, and the declarations of principle of the Coalition Party are nothing but words to its own voters. This is a completely different monetary plan. We are going to be tied up as guarantors of the debt of the Hultitio countries for the next decades. Efforts have been made to reduce the seriousness of this by claiming that it is a one-off. However, the untimely public aggravation of some of the Commissioners is quite the opposite. New initiatives are already being explored and consideration is being given to introducing the package as a permanent fundraising instrument. Is it possible that this one-off nature has referred to the one-off nature of the vote? So when and if a preliminary decision has been taken and its outcome would be positive, would the next crisis package be dealt with without a separate vote? Would it be broken through with the same error in Parliament as was done in connection with the Finnish Emu vote? At that time it was interpreted that the EU vote had already taken a preliminary decision on EMU, so it would no longer be necessary to vote on it separately. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u12	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u13	Mr President! The previous speakers raised ideas with their excellent reflections, and I would like to comment first on some of them. First of all, Mr Koskela's question of leverage: it occurred to me that I have asked a number of questions — well, admittedly, I have asked a lot of questions, and all those questions are linked by the fact that I have never received any answers from the government or from the ministers. I do not know whether it is because they do not have answers to them, or whether the answers are such that they dare not say them out loud because they would be ridiculed. All the same, questions are obviously good when they are not answered. So, as a question, if this package of blackmail or protection funds, called the recovery package, is more correct, it will be so excellent that we will pay 4 billion to Italy, Spain, Eastern Europe, and leverage these countries with this kind of...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u16	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u17	Madam President! Finland intends to revive Southern Europe with billions of euros, and the government intends to use its sustainable growth programme to recover from the package. When Italy plans to pay 250 euros a month with Finnish money for one child up to the age of 21 and Spain is spending its part on improving industry and experimenting with a four-day working week, how will the Marin government then revive its home country? As a result of the green transition, the government is bringing an active model number two to the benefit of the unemployed. The government is removing the pension line for older workers, and at the same time the government does not accept over 55-year-olds as part of the municipal employment experiment, which is accessible to all immigrants and foreign-language speakers immediately at the beginning of unemployment. Finns over 55 will only be eligible when they become long-term unemployed. Blocking the pension pipeline and other reductions in unemployment security will not create any new jobs. They only increase the number of people employed into the already growing army of the unemployed. And the government is just going to continue domestic resuscitation and shorten the widow's pension. But the most important thing for the former Labour Party in the government is to support the people of southern Europe. The older unemployed are now left to their own devices only to the active model. When the unemployed are deprived of the pension line, they are also deprived of the opportunity to raise the pension that would be accrued by earnings-related but not by labour market support. The government will therefore start to distribute increased penalties to the Finnish unemployed when it revives. At the same time, the government reveals how little it appreciates an unemployed worker. The Government will also revitalize as follows: On the other hand, the unemployment funds of trade unions save when unemployed people fall off the earnings-related pension line. This can therefore turn upside down, and older people will be more easily laid off in the future if there is no work to be done. At the same time, the pension intake of unemployed workers will fall and the purchasing power of the future will be reduced. Blocking the pension pipeline is a cruel pension cutter: hundreds of euros are being cut in the monthly pension for a 60-year-old who has been unemployed according to SAK calculations. The effect may be greater than the folded index. This is how the government revives in Finland. In other words, the government is drastically increasing pensioner poverty. Mr President! The European Union wants to share a EUR 750 billion pot with its Member States. The pot consists mainly of subsidies which the recipient will never have to repay. It sounds too good to be true — but it is true for the Mediterranean countries of loose economic discipline. But someone will eventually have to pay for this debt support, too, when the other benefits, and even now it has become clear to the Finnish people that we are not a benefit. We belong to the group that will be paid for by these parties. When the time comes to pay off the debt, our citizens’ teeth are not going to help — in one form or another, the people’s purse will be disciplined. Nor is this enough: while the billions of Finns get the wings on which they fly to the sandy shores of the Mediterranean, our independence will also be taken away.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u18	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lehto did well to highlight the kinds of cuts that Finland and Finland are facing. One could say that the EU and immigration and the rest of the world first, and then, if there is time and money left, then Finland and Finns. Somehow I've forgotten whose mandate we're on here, each one of us. Was it during yesterday's debate when the RKP MP Biaudet resented us and considered us to be something — I don't remember now — extremists, I guess — when we did not feel sorry for the Italians. Of course, you can think that it is unfortunate that some people have a hard time in the economy, but now that we have to think — as Mrs Lehto has well pointed out — about their own low-income, pensioners, widows, this picking up of the unemployed and many other things that she has well brought up. But after the government has chosen this line, for they want to go, and the people then give their views on it, for example, in the elections on 13 June. Here in recent days' debates and in the media, government parties and their representatives have said that this agreement is very unproblematic. Well, as I have just mentioned and in my previous speeches I have quoted the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is not a problem-free report, but it has not been wanted to be read, read or read or not to be interested — I do not know which one of these is, everyone can choose. And it has been said that Finland benefits enormously from this and almost all economists are in favour of it and otherwise. Well, I would like to mention a few experts and a few withdrawals from their views in the various committees, so that you can then listen to them if everyone is so excited and sure to agree, as has been suggested here. Economist Juha Tervala has pointed out that the key element of the recovery tool is current transfers from the EU's high GDP countries to countries with lower GDP, which means that the impact of the northern part of fiscal recovery on the southern part through exports is very small because trade between the north and the southern part is small. He has also pointed out that the recovery in the southern part would probably increase production significantly in the south, but the impact on the northern part, in which we are also, would be very small through exports. Now, here is really the buser that is now coming here to Finland – for example, he thinks so, but I do not know if they want to be heard. He has pointed out that current transfers reduce demand in the rich countries of the EU, which are important for Finnish exports, and increase demand in lower income countries, which are not important for Finnish exports. And he has pointed out that he suspects that these current transfers would promote Finland's exports. He has also pointed out that we are a significant net contributor to the recovery tool and the whole weakens Finland's domestic demand. He has pointed out that the net impact of the recovery tool package on the Finnish economy may be negative, because the instrument, as has been mentioned here several times, revives Southern and Eastern Europe at the expense of Western and Northern Europe. So those who have handled their economies well pay the bills of those who do not care. And, given, for example, Eastern Europe, which has, for example, the burden-sharing agreement of the Paris climate agreement, has also been negotiated with them in a very gentle way. They don't have to do anything, we're all doing it for them, and we're giving them a little more money now so they're even better off. We can then do a long day with heavy taxation and remember Italians there at night, at night, when we are working and grappling with tightening taxation. And he has said that participation in the recovery fund must only be seen as part of the cost of being in the EU. And so it is that the government has wanted to take this line. I've got more than one of these. I will then take them to the next speakers. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u20	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u21	Madam President! Moral deprivation — that is what we are talking about when we talk about this aid package. This has also been the case in the past when the euro area has been in crisis and we have given aid packages to Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus. This aid package, or the recovery instrument, as it is misleadingly called, was therefore triggered by the corona crisis, but it would have met without this corona. After all, as we know, 70% of the money-sharing criteria are now attributable to non-interest rates. There are many countries in southern Europe that are economically in crisis and are unable to cope with the euro. Either the labour market is too rigid or the grey economy and corruption that are rampant in the country. And we all know very well here that Italy will not survive as long as it is in the euro. It will not be able to export, for example, to Germany or France. The issue of moral hazard is that we support those countries that have managed their economies recklessly without requiring them to put their economies in order. This will create a situation in which once the countries that have received money are repeatedly hand-in-hand in asking for more money. Why should they put their economies in order when other countries are constantly helping to keep the euro area up? This is immoral activity, and it is wrong that Finland has been and is still supporting this activity, sending its taxpayers' money to other countries. In Spain, basic income experiments are planned, and we have read in the media that the Mafia is trying to get its share of the recovery money flowing into Italy. It has been said that this will help our exports, but do you really believe that our exports from this would improve? The most sensible thing would be to support our own industry, which is threatening to relocate to other countries from the factory and the workplace. Our economy is not so solid that we can send debt money to support deficits in other countries. Madam President! The changeover to the euro was a mistake and was wrong only with the Prime Minister's announcement. Fortunately, now we can correct some of this historic error when the Constitutional Committee imposed a two-thirds majority vote. This is the size of the matter that should not be decided by a majority in government, and the euro should not have been passed on to the Prime Minister in due course. During the euro period, our economic growth has been slow. We are among the slowest growing countries in Europe. For the past ten years, our economic growth has been almost the worst in the world. Finland ranks 134 in growth comparison. Seven countries from the 141 countries in the world grew more slowly than the Finnish economy, and two have also been EU countries, Greece and Italy. The growth gap in Sweden has been as high as 20%. You might wonder if it was a part of the currency. So the euro has not been a success story. Interest rates may have been low, but they have also been low for countries outside the euro area, such as Sweden. I cannot support this aid package because it is worse for our country and for the European Union as a whole. We can also be responsible for the European Union, which is why we should not go along with this. The aid package is contrary to the Union's own Treaties and thus increases the moral hazard of Europe. When immorality is allowed to flourish, this bubble will one day explode into our hands, it is inevitable. There is no endless distribution of unmastered money. It's a very dangerous equation where we're going now. When we give our budget to others, others treat it, our money, then divide it as they share, and we do not know who to distribute it to. It's a dangerous world we don't want. Overturning the aid package — we know it here — may lead to short-term chaos, but the greater the chaos will be faced with the longer this unstable system of orphan money will be breathed and forced to stand. The overthrow of the aid package is a patriotic act, but it is also a sensible move from the point of view of European ideology. We Finns love Finland and Finns, and that is why we are opposed to this support package.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u22	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u23	Madam President! It was a mother of young children in a family with many children who sent a distressed message about what is happening in Finland at the moment. Mr President! The ministries have prepared a preliminary proposal on how to implement the government's cuts in the spending limits debate starting with the budget for 2023. The plans are reflected in the materials accompanying the Government General Session on Wednesday. For example, the proposal provides for a total cut of EUR 110 million on the site of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to be directed towards the development of the transport network. In the spending limits debate, the Government decided to reduce certain expenditure permanently by a total of EUR 370 million. At the time, it explained to which ministries the cuts were targeted, but their precise targets were not specified. This is the first time that such a breakdown has been published. Deputy Budget Manager Annika Klimenko from the Ministry of Finance informs STT that the ministries have then prepared proposals as official work. Mr Klimenko stresses that the plans are preliminary and can be refocused by ministries. Final decisions will not be taken until next year. In his view, however, every ministry has accepted the current proposal from its own political leadership. Police, Luke or Natural Resources Centre and Academy of Finland as targets for planing. The cut of EUR 110 million to the Ministry of Transport and Communications is the largest cut faced by an individual ministry. The most common cut per ministry is EUR 35 million. That is what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Defence, Education, Culture and Agriculture and Forestry should each save. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs would reduce the total amount from the actual development cooperation. The decision is not surprising, since the Ministry was already anticipated to the STT last week. The Ministry of Defence would split the need for savings equally between the Defence Forces' operating expenses and the acquisition of military equipment. Last week, the government source was informed that the cuts in defence and transport projects are hardly burying any projects, but rather prolonging their duration. At the Ministry of Education and Culture, the savings would focus on the research appropriations and strategic research funding of the Academy of Finland. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, on the other hand, has broken down the cutting needs between 12 different budget items. For example, the operating expenditure of the Natural Resources Centre would decrease by EUR 5 million. The Ministry of Finance would reduce municipalities' central government share of basic services by EUR 24 million. The Ministry of the Interior would cut the operating costs of the police by more than EUR 3.8 million and the Border Guard's operating expenses by 1.6 million as part of its own reduction. When assessing the operations, it should be noted that many of the items have received substantial additional funding during the Government term. Mr President! Here's today's news in the tabloids. Mr President! There is no way I can accept any tax increases and cuts as long as money is dumped abroad. This package is completely insane. This vote on the support package is one of the most relevant decisions in Finnish history. This is a jump to the unknown. Veterans have defended this country and fought for it with guns, and now this pen will be used to hand it over to others. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u24	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u25	Mr President! In this respect, the previous speakers were very gratefully taking this debate forward in the direction that I myself was going in my opening speech. After all, this opening speech has been taking place for a few days now with varying lengths of speech and has even received a comment from the President on the 12-minute speech earlier. It was a shame that I emptied so much of this workshop, but I got excited. I have already described what this package is and what this is not, what the European Union should have done in time, instead of this package, with regard to this corona crisis, and what it ultimately fell into — as always in the real world — and how it came to this rescue package for banks and the export industry in Germany and France. In fact, when it has been said here that the Finnish industry is being rescued by this, I do not remember who said it, but some representative or even a minister said in this one day's debate that, in fact, Finland does not have so much to do with the export industry in that Italy, but because Germany has something to do with the export industry in Italy - well, that is probably what it is, a lot of cars are being exported from Germany - then indirectly through this way that the Germans are taking cars to Italy, Finland should support Italy in order for the German economy to grow and Finland's economy to grow through the growth of the German economy. This was the way of thinking. In other words, when this package can normally be thought of as putting something on a string, that is, pulling a string and trying to push it forward, here we are trying to push something behind the bend. In this way, I would characterize this thinking model in this support package, which is based on a lever made through such a thread, which is not even in a fixed form. Then I went over the question of the Constitution and the transfer of power, that is, why this package is obviously a constitutional problem in this Chamber in a historical way. Now I am not sure whether there have been many proposals here in the past which have demanded a two-thirds majority in Parliament and which are, therefore, by definition, significant transfers of power to the international organisation from Finland out of sovereignty. Has there ever been a lot like this before? Perhaps more experienced representatives would be able to tell us when the Constitutional Committee had previously reached such a decision. I would also be interested to know whether the government has ever, in the past, ignored the Constitutional Committee's comments on these packages or on these solutions, so that perhaps Finland's sovereignty could be transferred somewhere, i.e. by trying its best to twist past the Constitutional Committee's opinion so as not to promote the current form: "Well,to change the current form in a different direction. Well, then it can be promoted when it is not in the current form.” Has it ever been like this before? I do not know if Mr Kiljunen will be able to tell us about this, since there are apparently no other very experienced representatives here. This is not a very popular debate, and even ministers are shining away from here. Well, let's hope they still come here over a long, long night and night. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] But I also described these false arguments about the necessity of this package, namely the leveraging of this export industry with a hosed lever and security that does not exist, because the package is based on blackmail and the export of our money and there is no division of the European Union that would bring military security. By the way, a representative came to me to quote that since how many divisions NATO has, if I say that the EU does not have any divisions, how many divisions NATO has. Well, I replied that NATO does not have any divisions, but it has a command structure capable of commanding the divisions that the Member States have, whereas the EU really has nothing but loose speeches. Even those EU security policy speeches may be such a string-twisting from behind the bend. It does not seem to be much use for the EU's speeches. And, as has been said before, the gas flows to Germany along the pipelines that some of the parties represented in this Chamber have been acquiring there on the seabed, a security problem for the European Union that we are quite dependent on Russian energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u26	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u27	Madam President! It is very important that we make these speeches about this recovery package. It has many dimensions. We have heard in this Chamber today from the Socialist side and also from the Centre that all the experts believe that this recovery package is extremely sensible and good. I am surprised that you claim to be so, because we are reading these expert opinions in the committees and I have read several opinions on several occasions myself, and that is not at all true that all the experts are in favour of this. I thought this evening I'd read these expert statements from this toilet and put the videos on the move. I can say that it's pretty strong if one of my videos was shared a thousand times, and if you think that the average Facebook profile owner has 330 friends there, it's 330,000 potential viewers. For that reason too, it is important that we make these speeches, that the citizens themselves be able to assess what the experts have actually said. I would like to start by writing an opinion in the Helsingin Sanomas of today's Helsinki newspaper by Raimo Ilaskivi — former MP and European Parliamentarian, Mayor of Helsinki and economist: ‘Can Finland rely on the European Union? Can a small Finland continue to rely on us not to be used only as a bill payer?” ‘The debate on the EUR750 billionrecovery package will take place in its The last question is whether the large EU countries can trust Finland if we do not accept the recovery package.” ‘Let’s make this clear. Finland pays a net membership fee to the Union, and it is not a matter of neglect. We are not leaving the Union.’ — Even here, Mr Vanhanen, the Minister for Finance, has said that this is almost a departure from the Union. Ilaskivi disagrees. — ‘How to deal with a market-to-market financing package for the recovery of the economies of “As an economist, I would imagine that the amounts would be allocated to all of them,in order to increase their No one would have to pay net, as is the case with the proposed agreement that has been concluded and approved by the negotiators of our government. When Finland gives euros to others, we revive their economies and dry our own.” So this is what Ilaskivi says in Hesar of the day. He adds: ‘This structural error would be the jointaction of the members ‘Secondly, there is a degree of relative competitiveness. If the large net beneficiaries make good use of their share, they will improve their competitiveness vis-à-vis our own products. This is not a stimulus for us either.” ‘We are unsettled,and acceptance of suchresultsis a loss-making process—a difference or a The views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which have now been acclaimed, do not have the weight of a penny within the Union; even when it starts to deal with the following opportunities for solidarity that are already being discussed between Germany and France.’ ‘The question is whether large EU Member States can rely on Finland. The problem is the opposite. Can a small Finland continue to rely on us not to be used only as a bill payer?” So I saw Raimo Ilaskivi. Everyone can now judge how this expert felt about this package. At least I got that pretty clear. I do not know, then, whether Mr Kiljunen will interpret this as such, that it was like writing in favour of a package. No, it wasn't. I will continue with the following expert reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u28	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u29	Madam President! There are many problems with the European Union's EUR 750 billion recovery package. The government fears the fall of the recovery package and the EU budget, and they have nightmares about Finland’s negligible influence on the EU tables. Finland will pay more for the package than you can get. This means that Finland will pay the European Union a high membership fee up to the 2050s — that is, up to the 2050s. Mr President! Juha Tervala, researcher at the University of Helsinki, is concerned that higher net membership fees reduce demand in export countries important to Finland and Finland, which are also net contributors. So the package does not actually support Finnish export companies. At the moment, Finland appears to receive €2.7 billion in grants from the Recovery Facility. The final amount will be determined in the summer of 2022, as it will be influenced by the development of the Finnish economy this year and next year. Finland's contribution to the assistance provided under the Recovery Instrument amounts to approximately EUR 6.6 billion. This share and interest expenses will be payable between 2028 and 2058. Interest costs, the size of which we do not yet know, can increase much of our payment. If the net contribution of EUR 3.9 billion is spread over a 30-year period, it is EUR 130 million per year and this does not involve interest costs. The amounts are large enough for us Finns to bring down the EU’s stimulus package. The recovery package requires the approval of the parliaments of all the Member States. If the Finnish Parliament knocks it down, the whole package will fall, you know that. We parliamentarians therefore have the power to decide whether or not to bring the package down. Former Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen, the current central finance minister, said at the A-studio: ‘Finland cannot light-talk about the recovery package and waits for further negotiations. There is no such route.” Vanhanen also said that the government must act in a way that preserves Finland's authority on the EU tables, but in the eyes of the people, Finland's authority will remain when we bring down the package and negotiate a much better outcome for ourselves. Finland should also be concerned about the votes in Southern Europe, which want more solidarity, for example, in Eurobonds. However, the cold fact is that Germany and France wanted a recovery package to save their banks, and this is where Finland has a role to play. Mr President! There is no way I could do to my children that I, as a father, would accept the sale of our country's independence in the form of a support package by selling our independence, which we would still have to pay for ourselves. So you supporters of the recovery package are selling our country to the European Union. At the same time, you still want to pay for selling our beloved homeland built and defended by our parents and grandparents. You supporters of the package want to give billions of euros more dowry while Finland is now being married to a federal state. In our opinion, you are taking us into forced marriage, from which there is no way out. You supporters of the enslavement package are taking Finland into the federal home maid — a maid who is forced to clean up the mess of loose financial discipline in other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u30	And I would like to remind you again of this five-minute recommendation from the Council of Presidents. — And now, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u31	Thank you, Madam President. In that previous speech, I pointed out the summary of the debate that it has been suggested here that this is a very problem-free package and that Finland benefits from this and that is what many economists believe. In particular, during television broadcasting, it is made clear to the public that there is almost agreement on this. In that speech, I raised what economist Juha Tervala has said, and now I take a few others who have been heard in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Finance or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Professor Vesa Vipriälä has stated that although this recovery fund is formally one-off, its implementation, and in particular the new interpretation of the possibility of EU own debt, adopted in this context, will significantly increase the likelihood of re-using similar solutions without this strict conditionality. Today we have heard from the Commission and from the European Central Bank as early as last autumn — well, maybe it was not a slip, maybe they just told us what is the idea of the future, but here in Finland, of course, there was a great deal of anxiety about this, and then, as we heard, last night, the Commissioner for Economic Affairs was able to tweet in Finnish, learn Finnish in just a moment, and was able to target it here in our Parliament. Mr Vipriälä also points out that this is a step towards a fiscal union, as has been pointed out here, for example, by Mr Vähämäki, a long-standing Member of Parliament. He is a long-standing member of the Committee on Finance and he knows these economic issues very well. In other words, Vipriälä also believes that this is a step towards a fiscal union which, however, is incomplete in several ways and can, as such, increase rather than reduce risks to stable economic development and, at the same time, lead to greater transfers from countries with good economic development to countries with poor development. As I pointed out in the previous speech, economist Juha Tervala, for example, pointed out just how little this will benefit us in the north and more then these countries in southern Europe and Eastern Europe that have failed to manage their economies, and we will reward them. As I have pointed out in my previous speeches — once it has been stated here that the interest rate is the reason why it is being revived — the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also sees a problem in the interpretation of these Treaties with the fact that about 30% of this package is focused on these interest rate targets and interest rate recovery, and the remaining 70% is then on other issues, as we have heard here — as Mrs Lehto said, for example, on a number of projects, such as those in Italy or Spain: shortening the working week and trying to see whether life there would be even easier. As I have pointed out before, if these countries would even think about tax evasion. According to a previous study by Yle, about 800 billion dollars a year goes into tax evasion last summer, and this is more than this recovery package, that is, if countries were to ensure that taxes are not circumvented, that is to say, that these taxes are collected — Italy, for example — but, of course, EUR 190 million — but of course they are happy to take free money so that they can then keep these undeclared workers and other tax evaders satisfied. The fear is already real when we all know that in Italy, for example, the Mafia has enormous weight, and I am really concerned that the tax resources collected by us Finns with hard work will soon be in the hands of God knows who. I will not go into these next statements because time is running out, but here are two important experts who do not consider this to be a problem-free and as useful as what has been presented here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u32	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u33	Mr President! It is good to have this debate here because these own resources/recovery funds are very important. This is a very political matter. I would say that there is also political pressure at EU level and in relation to Finland. Here we are going through this package with arguments that may not stand up to critical scrutiny. One of these is what, especially yesterday in these group speeches, just opening speeches, many parties drew attention to and claimed that this recovery fund would then have a more than a year ago as if a protected market, that this was like a brilliant package, which then calmed down as if the chaos of the world economy. If you look at it on March 2020, especially when it was understood that this is a pandemic, when the World Health Organisation declared that covid-19 was a pandemic, it was a very chaotic situation for a while, and when you look at the financial markets, the situation is so little the same as it was then in the financial crisis 2008. Stock market prices, among other things, were at a free drop from mid-March. But there was no recovery package at the time, so that in itself it could not even reassure the market, but what happened was that it was the central banks that acted in the first place. It had the European Central Bank — the ECB’s major liquidity programme — and then in the United States the Federal Reserve, FED, made a similar package, in fact a couple of such massive quantitative stimuluss, and then there were these different fiscal policies, practically large support packages. Well, this was followed up by this so-called covid guarantee fund, and it had this SURE, the EU support measure, which was also being discussed here in Parliament, and then there was this European stability mechanism and its use of firepower for this pandemic situation and its effects. In fact, Mr Lindén raised this point quite well yesterday. After all, he brought up these different classes of magnitude, and he raised, among other things, what the FED has done and how many trillions are spoken of, what the FED or the ECB have done. Compared to that, this recovery fund is still relatively modest in size, so that, if we look at it in terms of quantity, it was not in the same scale, but it did not really exist at this early stage of the economic crisis. But as far as this ESM is concerned, it is interesting in the sense that the ESM has such an agreement of its own and has traditionally included such a healthy fiscal policy requirement that those countries that take this ESM loan then undertake to pursue a sound fiscal policy or disciplined fiscal policy, i.e. such conditionality is spoken of — due conditionality. I understand that this effect of conditionality was indeed mitigated last spring. It was also discussed a little bit. But I have been left over from this instrument when there is the loan money available, whether these countries in crisis were going to raise money. As far as I know, at least not in the first months, even in the summer. Why didn't they? But there is a ratio of low - interest or very low - interest loans available and that conditionality has been shrunk so that they would not increase? I asked Mr Vanhane this yesterday in a debate. He did write that question down, but there was no answer to this. Perhaps Mr Koskinen could well know about this — he was just in the Chamber, but he is not at the moment. But at least I would like to have an answer to these questions, and I would stress that this argument that the recovery fund is the solution at an acute stage is simply not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u34	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u35	Mr President! At this stage, perhaps a little contact would be made with the substance of the distribution of money in this package, i.e. where that money would now be spent in Finland and where that money would be spent in other parts of Europe, and why Finland's way of spending that money is actually the stupidest of all European countries. In his previous speech, Mr Lehto described quite well what is happening in Finland, for example, with regard to employment policy. I could never have imagined that when a left-wing government was elected, it was the first thing that struck an unemployed or elderly worker who had been beaten by a whip, whose pension line was being cut by the government. So this is the kind of action. When other countries revive, other countries support employment, other countries shorten the working day, Finland will cut off the pension pipeline by the left-wing government. It's a cold, cool cut. It's a brutal policy. It is a question of putting people on the unemployment card for a low basic daily allowance, resulting in a fall in their pension intake and poverty for the rest of their lives. Yes, Italy and Spain can handle their own unemployed compared to Finland. Finland has a very cold and cruel policy. In Spain, there is talk of working-day reductions and support for battery plants with these package money. Of course, someone may say that they do not directly support that battery factory with that package money, but they can make other social transfers and then, with the money released from it, support those factories. Basically, it doesn’t matter how you run that money there, money when you come in net so much that they may not even know for themselves what they would spend it on. A good example of this is the Italian super-child allowance, i.e. EUR 250 from the seventh month of pregnancy until the child reaches the age of 21. We could use one in Finland, too, and it would be nice if some European country paid us for it too. Many countries have tax cuts. There are no tax reductions in Finland, but tax increases. Even the fuel tax was raised by the government in a country where travelling by private car is necessary. So there are many ways to spend this money more wisely than in Finland. One good thing in Finland is probably compared to Italy: we probably do not have much of this money for organised crime, whose budget and turnover in Italy are the size of Finland's defence expenditure. It is said to be very much netted from this package, but at least there is not quite this problem in Finland. Here we come to what Mr Koskela has rightly described with this concept of moral hazard, by the way, when he said that the euro is not a success story. And here he was quite right and I would add that the euro is more of a loss story. But what is this other than moral hazard? Countries do their business badly and are further supported so that they can continue to do their business badly. No one is doing any reforms, no things in society are being changed, as a result of which debt continues, no taxes are collected more efficiently than ever. There is no money coming up and there is always a need for new packages, which we in Northern Europe will then continue to pay for. But Finland does not spend the slightest amount of money that we can reasonably recover from the EU. We have all these strange projects that no sensible person would go to for real money, but when the EU money can be applied for, there will be some sort of tuning-up, the main benefit of which is that people's tax resources will be left in the municipalities. There is little point in that paper-spinning, but when EU money can be used to keep it, then it will be held. There is absolutely nothing left to leave behind: no infrastructure, no road, no railway, no buildings, nothing to do with something concrete. It's just air. Then we come to this climate nonsense, that Finland is using its limited negotiating power to demand that this money can be spent more on climate issues than even the EU would have liked. By demanding that the money should be spent more on these projects, Finland insisted. This doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u36	Congressman Mäkynen Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u37	Madam President! With the recovery fund, the European Union will be given the right to make budget deficits, to finance them with a common debt and to raise funds for these purposes from the Member States in the form of various taxes. This is a transition towards a federal state. The government has consistently defended the aid package by appealing to its one-off nature. However, it is known that a new aid package will be needed as early as next autumn. This aid scheme has also been proposed as a permanent one. The recovery package related to the proposal has been called exceptional, fixed-term and one-off on the part of the Government. In the European Union, there is nothing new or exceptional about loans and direct transfers granted or guaranteed by other countries in support of over-debted countries or companies. According to the interpretation of the True Finns, the proposal is a package of support for the euro crisis. Since the aid package is already in force in this configuration until 2058, its calling for a fixed term stretches the concept quite sharply. So we already know that the package will be a nuisance for decades and that the decisions on new own resources taken in connection with it and the subsequent roll-over of loans into new loans will last a long time. The opinion of the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs also states that the recovery fund represents a long-term change. Madam President! 35 years is such a long time that we can talk about a permanent arrangement in practice. The government and mainstream media have also misled the people so that Finnish membership of the European Union will force them to participate in this package. That is not the case. Participation is a political choice, and every country in the European Union decides on participation in its own parliament, as we do here in the Finnish Parliament. Contracts can always be renegotiated. The Finnish Government must demand that the aid package be renegotiated. We Finns do not support the resignation of the European Union, but the fact that the EU becomes more moderate. If the aid package is adopted in its current form, then the only way out of the future federal state is to leave the European Union. When the government drives Finland into the federal state like a rabbit in front of a gun and scares it with the consequences of rejecting the package, the reality is, in fact, quite the opposite. When the people realize the consequences of the package for the Finnish economy in the coming years, they will demand Finland's resignation from the European Union. There is still an opportunity to bring the package down and to renegotiate with the European Union. Why can't the government look the truth in the eye? Why would the government want to take the Finnish Federation and refuse to renegotiate the terms of the package to Finland? The fact is, if the package falls, life will go on and there will be no end of the world. If and when – or at least I hope so – the package falls, then the EU can temporarily use the old budget and negotiate a new multi-annual framework. If, in this situation, a Member State needs help, it will receive it in the form of a loan from the European Stability Mechanism. Madam President! The EU Treaty prohibits the EU’s debt, the deficit budget and the Member States’ debt solidarity. This is a subversive interpretation of the law, after which there is no trust in the validity of any agreement. The Finns Party believes that the fall of the package is in the interests of both Finland and the EU. Now is the time to bring down this package and respect democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u38	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u39	Madam President! The previous speaker concluded that democracy should be respected. This house, this place is a Parliament where, of course, we have a debate and respect for democracy, because we are elected representatives of the Finnish people to represent the people and also make important decisions. This issue of this recovery fund and also of the multiannual financial framework within the framework of the Union is an exceptionally big issue. It is undoubtedly an exceptionally big issue, and it is undoubtedly also valuable that Parliament has a thorough debate and has had an in-depth debate on these issues. Yesterday I was unable to take part in this debate which continued at half-five. In my heart, I wondered with humility that if we did, we would not learn, and at least I do not know everything. It seemed to me that there might be reason to listen to the argument that so many things have been going on and so many things have been done. I have here promised to listen to these speeches, which have been mentioned for a long time now. I had a bit of a panic feeling at the time when they began to read the statements made in the committees — we parliamentarians have already had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with these statements in writing, those who have not been present in the Constitutional Committee and those who have been present have already heard them many times — when it began to seem that the same argument is being repeated here. This thing is so big, it's so big, it's about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u42	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u43	Mr President! The recommendation for speaking time is five minutes, but I would like to point out from the outset that I am exercising the constitutional right of a Member of Parliament, Article 31. My speech may be a little over the top. President! The adoption of the recovery package here is justified on several occasions, inter alia on the basis of Finland's exports to the EU and the importance for Finland that the recovery of countries such as Italy and Spain will also benefit Finland's exports. This is hard to believe if you look at and believe Customs' export statistics for 2020 as a whole, according to which Finland's seven largest export countries in order of size were Germany, Sweden, USA, the Netherlands, China, Russia and the United Kingdom. Thus, four of the largest are not part of the European Union, and otherwise, Finland's exports have spread evenly around the world, except for Germany. Italy received only 2.5% of Finland's total exports last year and Spain 1.6%, i.e. the claim that Finland's exports would benefit from the recovery of Italy and Spain is hay. In fact, we are reviving our internal market competitors at the expense of our own exports. I can only wonder with what logic you are trying to feed us and the citizens of this debt package. We have heard in this Chamber the explanations of the red multasists about how we are forced to be involved in everything that the EU imposes on us. This comes up in a number of ministers’ speeches by painting black clouds on our country, if we were to say ‘no’ this time, we would be making a new, better deal. They say it won't work. Well, I'll ask you, have you ever tried it? No, it's not. This socialist government, which is wandering in the pockets of the people, wants to squat as a model student of the European Union. Why would it not be possible to negotiate a better agreement if Finland did not accept the package? However, it is quite clear that the European Union will not allow the aid package to fall but will eventually have to give in to at least some of our claims. That would be necessary if we were to go through the package at all and the banks of the great countries of southern Europe were to be rescued. President! Ministers and representatives of the Government Party have stressed that Finland should be able to be trusted. Well, is this automatic for Finland's reliability in the eyes of France and Germany to require that we always shake hands with the worst agreements offered to us? I say that trust deserves even better by making it clear once and for all that we are not a handcuff, which is always everything and which is satisfied with the small handouts. If it's used, there's a lot of leverage. There is no influence if it is not used. The Government has also emphasised the importance of good cooperation in this debate on the recovery package and in general, and often the maintenance of a good working environment in Parliament in general. Today, the government used its influence in the debate on recovery tools. It made a table and referred the matter to the next sitting. Now we are in that next session. This started half an hour after the last one. Ministers visited the stand for five minutes as the media photographed the hardworking laborers. A fair of 90 members of the government voted the opposition down and left with joy. Now I use J. V. Snellman's poems: He therefore happily left for Finland in the summer like a sparrow flock on a beautiful summer day. Special things are happening when dealing with this stimulus package. Dear citizens, you do not know how special and special. Well, what does this nonsense say about Parliament's authority today, everyone can think about it when they wonder about the recovery package. President! There has been talk of interest relief, but the financial losses caused by the interest rate will not be borne by the package. It is an act of climate change which, in turn, does not revitalize but destroys livelihoods. This is an unfortunate example of peat production, rising fuel prices, rising energy prices, and many more unfortunate examples. One or two more points, President, about the rejection of the referendum on the citizens' initiative recovery package. It will affect this discussion of the recovery package so that, for example, in the centre of Toijala in the town of Akaa in the district of South Pirkanmaa, 16393 Finns will certainly be wondering today why they were not allowed to say their word, that is, for or against, as well as in the town of Alajärvi in the district of Järviseudu in southern Ostrobothnia, [The President knocks ] In Aakkos, the third is Alavieska, a municipality of 2518 people in the Ylivieska region in Alavieska parish in northern Ostrobothnia, where the deputies are thinking about this same thing. There Pirkko Barber, Teuvo Turve Producer and others think this is how democracy goes. Citizens' initiative signed by more than 50,000 Finns
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u44	On this point, I would like to say that the Council of Presidents recommends that we use a five-minute time limit when we speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u45	Mr President! The recovery package cannot be regarded as temporary, as responsibilities and operating time go far into the future. As net contributors to the recovery package, we will revive our rival countries until 2058. And more is most likely to be expected, because, despite the assurances of our red-green government, now a joint loan under the guise of the corona will not remain one-off. This was last read on Monday evening in Yle’s news coverage, where Valdis Dombrovskis, the leading Vice-President of the European Commission, said he believed that if he succeeded, the financial instrument could be used more often. It was also quickly realised in Brussels, and we were able to witness and read on Twitter the fluent Finnish-language tweets of the Vice-President of the Commission on the one-off nature and uniqueness of the recovery package. The only thing that can be said about this is that finnish maidens are now being exported only a litre. Mr President! The resuscitation package will not remain one-off. This is also demonstrated by the real nature of the recovery package. The package is aimed at limiting over-indebtedness in many EU countries to the necessary recovery measures. In the case of Italy, for example, there is also considerable dissatisfaction with the EU. The recovery package is therefore, to a large extent, about buying the rebel countries of the EU on their side and the desire to hide the over-indebtedness of certain countries. The package as a whole is very unfavourable to Finland’s independence and economy. It is an expensive mistake to contribute billions of dollars to the Mediterranean's rival countries, because there is nothing to stop the Member States from reviving their own economies through their national budgets. The existence of an independent nation cannot possibly rely on the fact that we have to pay billions every time we are asked or intimidated. Mr President! Our Prime Minister had an excellent starting point for the negotiations on the recovery package. The previous Finnish governments had advocated Finland’s EU policy that each Member State should be responsible for its own budgets and debts. The Prime Minister could have continued along the same lines. The EU Treaties also simply deny solidarity as a whole. The Prime Minister could have invoked the EU's own agreements, but no. Prime Minister Marin did not even follow the Finnish Constitutional Committee's opinion on the EU's recovery plan for the large committee. The opinion stated that on 12 June 1920 — a direct quotation: ‘At this stage in the deliberations of the Council of State, the proposed Union borrowing and the Member State’sresponsible responsibility for grant-based support instruments This shows our Prime Minister to the negotiating task of total lack of preparation. The final result, on the other hand, shows that our Prime Minister had an extreme need to make an impact on Brussels. The recovery package negotiated by our Prime Minister is not a victory for negotiation or even for the fight against it; that is the result that is immediately achieved by surrendering. The citizens are also aware of this, and that is why public opinion on the recovery package is critical to a large extent. A citizens' initiative that collected over 60,000 signatures in record time, in just a few days, also shows the Finnish criticism of the recovery package. However, the most grotesque thing was that the Finns, as the only party, spoke on the citizens' initiative. Yes, all the other parties were brilliant in their absence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u48	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u49	Mr President! Before I speak, I would like to comment on Mr Kiljunen's speech. Since it was not possible to debat, at this point you can certainly use a few words. I understand the logic of the scream. He is a very sharp guy, and I appreciate his work in the Council of Europe and in the committee where work is done together. He thinks a lot about things. But the assessment that the Members of Parliament are speaking here only to warm up is somewhat offensive to the constitutional freedom of expression that this House gives us. This is not a matter of small legislation or a temporary provision of fiscal discipline for the Finnish people. We are talking about legislation that binds Finland to such responsibility that our descendants will bear its consequences for decades to come. On the other hand, what is that Parliament or country in which the opposition should remain silent when the government is deciding something? We have a large country close by where the opposition does not hold such a debate for long because it will be silenced. We do not want the kind of development in which freedom of expression and democracy and the will of the people do not belong in this house, and in that sense it is good that each representative keeps those speeches as long as he wants, because this is a major history for the future of Finland. These speeches will be discussed in decades' time. Then let's see where we may have gone wrong, and then it's judged by historians. Mr President! What I wanted to talk about and what I have not yet spoken about is this specificity and one-offness that the government has been telling the public with the help of the media. This argument of precision with regard to this package is highly questionable, and it is questionable, above all because there is no definition of repayment of this package at all. With regard to this repayment, we will see how it will work. In any event, since repayment has not been decided, the liability must be substantial, particularly after the end of this budget period, 2027. In any case, the annual EU membership fees for Finland will increase by between EUR 210 million and EUR 500 million after this funding period, and that is a big sum because we know where the money will be allocated. Mr President! There is also a very high risk that, when these invoices are gradually being paid back in each country, before the due date of 2056, one Member State may turn out to be broke, it may prove unable to settle its debt. This wouldn't be the first time. In recent history, we have examples of how Greece has not been able to repay its debts, and therefore they have been given new aid packages and various financial arrangements to repay them. The same applies to Italy. If these countries are unable to repay these debts, then the other Member States, with their guarantee liabilities, will pay it. As far as Finland is concerned, the precise nature of the responsibilities rests on the fact that even in the event of a problem, if someone fails to make it, Finland would not have to pay them, but that is exactly the opposite under this agreement. [The President knocks ] Mr President! With regard to the argument that this saves jobs both in Finland and in Europe, this is not necessarily entirely true. We have also heard from other representatives the argument that this will not increase the Finnish economy or jobs. On the contrary, some of these countries may become competitors to Finnish industry. Spain, for example, is trying to become the leading country for car battery manufacturers in Europe with these very support funds. In that sense, these decisions are not as simple as the government has allowed them to make here. Mr President! We know that crises are coming and going, but it is likely that the threshold for making a new package will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u50	Ladies and gentlemen! I think it would be good if we could stick to this recommendation. I also know, of course, that the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in this respect, that the representative has unlimited right of speech, but when some of you use this recommendation, I think it is valuable that we always give others the opportunity to come and talk, and there is plenty of time here. — Next, the representative of the park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u51	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the statements made by the Committee on Budgets because, in my opinion, they may not have been fully covered, and I would also like to leave my own views in the books. In other words, one of them is that ‘the recovery instrument is regarded as an exceptional and one-off solution,the arrangement does not act as an ex-ante case and Finland does not accept When I myself think of this from an economic realistic point of view, perhaps also from an economic conservative point of view, these statements are actually quite good. I myself have spoken about similar issues and raised, among other things, a healthy fiscal policy in relation to the government programme — I also raised this theme in the previous speech. This includes issues such as no bail-out and a similar, sensible economic policy, as well as the views that Finland has had in the past in the EU in close cooperation with Germany and the Nordic countries, with the Netherlands and so on. Many people are in favour, but that criticism is also directed specifically at why this package can now be allowed through, as it were, on the basis that we have these statements in the Committee on Budgets. And here I think a mistake is being made that, although these statements in themselves are all right, this package should be returned to the negotiating table and reversed, because now the EU is going on track where it should not go. In other words, let us take that posture and, in particular, drive these statements in a material way, precisely by returning this package to the negotiating table and demanding them. After all, the situation is that Germany has slipped from those previous perspectives, and of course Southern Europe wants this aid, and there is a paradoxical situation for Eastern Europe in that sense that they are so strong net beneficiaries of aid because they come from such a long distance, at least historically, in the EU. They are net recipients, they have a kind of financial interest in pushing the package through, even if there are different reservations in principle. In my opinion, that is not very well thought out either. In fact, I think that many of the Eastern European countries, such as Lithuania, Poland and so on, have experienced a very strong economic improvement and some of these countries have, in fact, also done very well in the corona crisis. There is still the question that, when the Marin government has held these negotiations in the EU, why was Finland not involved in this snuff foursome? Why did Finland not specifically profile and promote these same things in the statements of the Committee on Finance, together with the four of the dolls? Today, Finland was specifically disengaged from it. But still, if you are looking for positive points of view here, this may now clarify the state of will in domestic politics during this Parliament and harden the Finnish position, and at least with these statements Finland will not join in, for example, with the possible excesses that can be seen. There is a need for resuscitation, but resuscitation can also be started in such a way as to run it over completely. I see the value here, but the risk is precisely that we should not have gone to that now. And I also believe that these statements will be binding until a new proposal comes, when it will be dealt with again in Parliament and then a new decision will be made, at most in the course of this couple of years, which this Parliament is now congregating, and in the past. In fact, I would like to point out that we are dealing here with a banking union, for example its resolution fund and the deposit guarantee fund, and I do not know whether I have seen the issue now in this Chamber — although this is not in itself a matter for the States, the banks are involved and others — of the importance of these statements in relation to what Finland is going to deal with as part of the Banking Union. I will come back to this in the next speech. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u52	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u53	Madam President! The fact that aid package funds may be used to finance defence procurement in other EU countries is just one example of how questionable it is to allocate huge amounts of our taxpayers' money to the EU aid package. Our Prime Minister has not made a proper impact assessment of the consequences of the package when he went to Brussels last summer to negotiate. He and the government would have had the opportunity to listen to basic Finns and critical speeches about the support package. Nor did the Prime Minister give any interviews to Finnish media representatives when he arrived from Brussels to Helsinki Airport after the aid package negotiations. The Prime Minister's behaviour, therefore, already made a strong reference last summer to the fact that Brussels is ordering what the government is doing and the talk away. Let me say here, however, that the government has had time to carry out various studies and listen to experts. The government has also failed to answer the questions of the opposition MPs in this great Chamber throughout the reign. A similar indifference has been demonstrated, particularly in relation to critical speeches on the EU support package. Is it the case that government ministers have already been promised Commissioners' posts in the cabinets when justified criticisms and warnings of the consequences of the aid package have been like shouting in the wind? For historical reasons, Finland has always made major decisions through extensive parliamentary cooperation. The aid package further undermines the national sovereignty of Finns and centralises power in Brussels. The preparation of the aid package has been accompanied by special features which are not part of a healthy democracy. The government is constantly talking about the one-off nature of the aid package, although in reality and probably already next autumn there will be a new aid package, which will be a surprise, a surprise once again. Dear government, why are you not keeping up with the truth? Why are you lying to the Finnish people about the real nature of the aid package? If the package is adopted in Parliament, it will actually lead to the transformation of the current European Union into a permanent Union of transfers and debt. Where has the cooperation of our government with Parliament been forgotten? The government is now doing a historical injustice against the Finnish people if the aid package is adopted. In the eyes of the Finnish people, it seems strongly to the government that cooperation and subservience in front of Brussels is more important than cooperation with Parliament and the opinion of its own people on the support package. Finland has a record high government debt behind its own guarantees, which is growing even further. The next governments are facing major cuts in the state budget. Will citizens feel in their bank statements the glutton debt of the Marin government, which is reflected in violent tax increases? The Finnish economy will be driven into an unprecedented economic crisis, citizens’ purchasing power will be driven down, jobs will not be created. Nevertheless, we are supposed to have a duty to finance EU countries that have failed to manage their economies with taxpayers' money. Mr President! There is no room for a healthy Finnish sense of justice with common sense that Finns have been made to pay for all possible things. When we have not managed our own economy in Finland, why does the government want us to pay not only for our own economy but also for the failure of foreign economies? Let us look at the situation in our own country: record unemployment, working poor, long waiting lists, old people in nursing homes, the list is endless. Are we such a wealthy country that, in this situation, we can afford to donate billions of dollars abroad? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u54	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u55	Madam President! I'm a very patriotic person. I think patriots are the ones who put aside short-sighted pursuit of political victories or political games and games when serious decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u62	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u63	Thank you, Madam President. At first, I would like to say a few words to you personally as chairman of Parliament's auditors. I would like to thank you for that precious and solemn opportunity in your quarters some time ago. Although it was a bad thing that we discussed, it was at least a very festive occasion for myself, thank you. And then to the actual speech: The representative of Peltokangas, whom I appreciated here, rightly asked for the people of Akaa and Alajärvi. I myself ask in exactly the same way on behalf of some 23800 people in Lempäälä, many of whom have asked me questions about why we are not allowed to decide on this guarantee fund, why we are not allowed to vote on this issue. In exactly the same way, I have received a number of inquiries on this matter. France was already trying to achieve a common budget for the euro area before the interest rate. Germany wouldn't do it. France was particularly frightened by the high debt of the Italian State, which we are all aware of now, and by the considerable lending of the French banks by the Italian banks. The fear was that if the Italian State were to cut off its debts or withdraw from the euro, the Italian banks would go down and, at the same time, the French banks would go down. Now, with the interest rate, the larger economic shock than the rest of southern Europe — the Mediterranean, living from tourism, which fell to almost zero — combined with the already high level of debt, also led Germany to turn to the ‘one-off recovery fund’. The EU Commission and the European Central Bank have been trying for a long time, at least since the euro crisis, to create a common EU or euro area budget and eurobonds. If the Member States had been asked separately — why were they not asked — if you wanted the EU to have tax law, the right to budget deficits, the right to take debt, no one would have agreed. The package is presented under the guise of a corona. It is linked to a multi-annual budgetary framework, which would, at the same time, also reject the EU budget and force the Member States to re-open the budget negotiations, which would be very important for Finland, for example. So the decision makers have been tired of the spring and summer summits and many other events. The package is justified by the corona crisis and the need to revitalise the European economy. I do think this is nonsense. Every single euro country can borrow money from the market at zero and, at the moment, even at a minus interest rate and revive as much as it pleases the country. And the basic rule in the EU, for example, is that each country takes and assumes its own debts, not common debts. The higher effectiveness of coordinated recovery measures is also a weak argument. At best, the extra power is modest, and it is not at all clear that significant coordination will even take place. In that sense, revitalising Finland's exports is a lot of nonsense. Money is now being poured into countries that are not significant customers of Finland, which are important export countries for Finland. Referring to the benefits of the EU, and in particular to the billion-dollar benefits that Finland has received from the internal market, is also nonsense. The EU and the internal market are not under threat and Finland is not threatened with being fired from the EU. In reality, it is about buying the over-debted or politically nervous Mediterranean and Eastern European countries more favourable to the EU. In terms of recovery money, the package is not enough, and the over-indebtedness of Italy or Spain by means of the package is not going to change. The importance of this package is that the re-interpretation of EU rules and the measures now proposed will enable the transfer and solidarity federation and create the first test ball of EUR 750 billion, an experimental batch. The next one will be much easier to implement. Each of them is the one and only — it will not happen again. The package was satisfied on the market because of it, [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u64	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u65	Mr President! When it comes to the Government's proposal for the adoption of the Council decision on the system of the European Union's own resources, it should be remembered that the basic Finnish policy is always based on the defence of Finnish democracy, culture and lifestyle. That is why our attitude towards the European Union and its growing efforts to integrate is very critical. The survival of Finnish democracy and the welfare state in the coming decades will not be possible if we do not get rid of the Brussels dictation that is lacking in all areas of life. European bureaucracy does not represent genuine virtues of Europeanism. The EU has become a caricature of what Europeanism really is. The most serious problem is that the European Union does not recognise the uniqueness of the European civilisation of which Finland is a valuable part. Finland’s success has been built on the struggles of generations of veterans and the hard work of reconstruction. The prosperity of our country has been brought about by Finnish work. The Finns of Finland are the only Finnish parties to uphold the classic Western values shaped by the Christian united culture and enlightenment in their European policy. On the other hand, the Finnish power parties, supported by Brussels, are preaching the message of open immigration, globalisation and neoliberal economic policy and now the European Recovery Instrument. The Finnish mainstream parties are thus prepared to ignore the multi-thousand-year Western heritage of Finland and the rest of Europe. Following the Euro crisis, the migration crisis, the Brexit and the corona, the EU is in a state of fermentation. Mr President! The Union is facing a strong trend alongside the traditional pro-integration of France and Germany, which is opposed to the concentration of power in Brussels, particularly in the field of immigration policy. Moreover, small Member States such as Denmark, Hungary and Austria have become tired of the Commission's policy of dictation and have begun to stress the importance of proportionality and subsidiarity in all future reforms of the European Union. Finland now has the opportunity to choose a strong, independent line rather than a weakening of national obsolescence and sovereignty. Now is the time to say ‘no’ to such a debt package and integrations, to the extent that our right to self-determination is being weakened, think about it. The Finnish voice is not included in the EU Federation, which is The European Union is not forever. Even before the final dissolution of the Union, Peruvians see the long-term strategic goal of Finland’s controlled EU separation — well, either alone or as part of a wider group of EU critical countries. This is the kind of thing we should discuss. The future is not as sweet as it is imagined in this Chamber. The European Union is in trouble, and we should also have a pre-planned exit strategy. That would be ahead of wisdom. It is a misconception that peace between European countries and the maintenance of the internal market require the support of a political union. Finland also needs the Finns of Finland in the European Parliament to make a real contribution to the cause of Finns. We cannot rely on the goodwill of other nations, for the national interest is in the hands of the Finns alone — in the hands of the Finns alone. The end of federal development: Finland has supported the so-called strong Commission doctrine throughout its membership of the euro and the EU. According to this doctrine, the European Commission, which is independent of the Member States, also holds the side of the small Member States in tight places, particularly against the aspirations of power on the French and German axes. Well, in reality, Finland has made a serious error assessment — a serious error assessment — since the Commission is not as neutral as its official status suggests. President! The Commission is subject to pressure from large Member States and often prepares proposals for regulations and directives. [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u70	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u71	Mr President! In the current debate on the recovery package, I have noted with concern that the speeches of many government parties and members of the coalition refer to the fact that by pouring this package out of the EU we would be forced to leave the EU or that we would receive some heavy customs sanctions to avenge us from the EU. I do not know whether this is the ignorance of these representatives or the deliberate deception of voters who are threatened with every possible threat from the locusts if anyone dares to defy the EU. In the EU Treaty, there are no such punitive measures, so these threats seem really confusing, whether they be incomprehensible or deliberate. As such, the EU has in a dangerous way abandoned its rule-based values and is flexible or constantly changing them, depending on the situation. If the government parties have more information than the opposition, it would certainly be important for this information to be shared with us as well. Mr President! Recovery in itself is quite welcome, and I think that if this package had been made sensibly, it could have been considerably larger. One way in which this could have been done could have been, for example, a package of EUR 2000 million of loan money distributed according to each country's payment key. At the same time, it would have been possible to increase the amount of eligible debt in each country relative to GDP. Such an arrangement would have been fair and would have created the right growth, which this recovery fund does not do. Today the EU is more like the Soviet Union, which is frightening. I have been in favour of joining the EU, and free trade is important, but it is dangerous for the EU to get in the way of the Soviet Union. The EU loses credibility at this rate. Who is going to believe in anything that the EU does or says? As incredible as it sounds, I am beginning to feel that the Finns are the biggest defender of the original EU when the EU is being turned into a new Soviet Union. Everyone knows what happened to it, and the EU will also fall down its own impossible. This brings us to the confusion of how short a person’s memory is. World history is full of systems that have been entrusted forever from Rome to the eternal Soviet Union and the millennial kingdom of Germany, and what about it? The EU will not last forever, and with this immoral and dishonest policy supported by the government it is no longer far off, so I now appeal to all colleagues across party lines: to save the EU and return to the rational Europe we joined in 1995. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u72	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u73	Madam President! At the outset, it must be said that in this five-minute period it is necessary not to stay, because there should always be one whole to go through at once, and I would have liked to have had longer speeches in one row so that there were not so many parts to come here to talk about. But let's do our best. First of all, representatives, I want to take a small stand on the tax rates put forward by Mr Arhinmäki in the European Union and on how he implied that we are not a federal state despite these rates. Representative For example, Arhinmäki took this as an example that we do not even have an army in common, even though the right side of the hall — certainly referring to the assembly — would have liked it very much. But Arhinmäki is wrong that the EU and indeed this monetary union do not show that we are at least very close to a federal state if we are not already part of it. I am going to highlight a few examples here. This is, of course, directly linked to this aid package, because this aid package itself is an in-depth measure for that federal development, because through this aid package the EU will have the right to collect various taxes, to make debts and also to commit Member States to paying the debt. There are already several federal hallmarks in Finland, and they are very easily visible. In Finland, for example, national legislation is subject to above European Union law. We have experience of this, of course, because there is constant ratification here of the legislative projects proposed by the European Union and we give positions on them every week. One of the signs of the federal state is, of course, that we have this monetary union, the value of which is determined not in Finland but in Brussels. One strong example is that we have this single EU central bank with which the Bank of Finland has received membership by joining the euro. Another example is the European Court of Justice, which is subject to the decisions of the Supreme Court. Of course, this is the election of representatives to Parliament and such a two-chamber system in which Members of Parliament are, as it were, members of the House of Commons and the ministers of the Member States in their Council of Ministers represent the so-called Upper House. Perhaps the clearest example of federal symbols is, of course, the euro ticket. In addition to the Eurolipu, there is a passport: The Finnish passport has the EU symbols first and then the Finnish logos. And, of course, there's an anthem. That is one of the hallmarks of the state, and the EU also has one. Mr President! The most worrying aspect is, of course, that the EU Commission cannot be influenced by voting. It will be chosen in a completely different way. Yes, this is a sign that this is not in the interests of any sovereign state. Furthermore, the EU is pursuing a common foreign policy strongly, and that is what we are doing in many respects, for example in the way in which we are trying to define the relationship between the Member States to Israel and Palestine, where, unfortunately, thousands of Jewish civilians are currently being shot at and killed. The EU will define the attitude we have on this issue. This has been seen many times in this House over the years. Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki is right that we do not have a common army, but it is no surprise to us that this has been proposed several times by the chairmen of the various Commissions and by other decision-makers. That is the one step that has yet to be taken, and at least this Parliament will not accept it. I'm sure of that. So, what does this have to do with this aid package? [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u74	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u75	Mr President! In previous speeches, I addressed the statements made by the Committee on Finance for five minutes. Let me summarise briefly here, in practice, by saying that I am in favour of many of these economic policies in themselves, but I believe that this approach, which is now, as it were, based on them — not on the four sides of the snuff box when we were negotiating this EU recovery package, but on the adoption of this EU recovery package and then on these internal statements — is not a sensible approach but a contradictory approach. We should, in particular, drive the content of their statements so that in the negotiations we drive them and now we refuse the aid package, let us return to the negotiating table. Then we are actually pushing the content of their statements. I see a lot of this pose here. This is a pretty hypocritical way. This is a little like explaining the sin that is now to be done. But I also wanted to take the debate to what I have not seen before in this plenary debate: what will, for example, be the significance of these statements in the future? Personally, I'm afraid these will remain like internal papers. They can clarify our line, and we can apply for support from similar countries in the future, okay, but then we are already on the wrong track. One example is this banking union. It bothers me quite a bit because, according to the Government Programme, Finland is actively working to finalise the Banking Union, taking into account the risk levels of banks — this is a recording. After all, there are many things to support in the Banking Union: It promotes financial stability. Such different supranational control mechanisms are justifiable in many respects. But even this arrangement contains elements such as solidarity, at least directly between banks. This has been the subject of a report by the Council of State, and I myself have dealt with this issue many times in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, before this corona crisis. Then there have been E-reports, U-letters for Parliament. For example, even before the corona crisis, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy repeatedly stressed that Finland could take part in this early introduction of the reserve, i.e. bringing forward the resolution fund if we consider that the risk level of banks in Europe has fallen. It is precisely an objective study that must be carried out: if the risk level of banks is significantly reduced, then Finland will be able to go ahead with these arrangements. We had different opinions on these opinions, and I said in committee and in disagreement that this will probably happen if the risk level of banks in Europe falls, Finland will go along with it, but okay: if it does not, then Finland will probably still go along with it – this is a lot of this kind of wink. And now it has become a matter for the Eurogroup to decide on, that is to say, 30. On 1 November 2020, the Eurogroup in its enlarged composition agreed on the reform of the European Stability Mechanism and the early introduction of the Single Resolution Fund of the Banking Union (SRF), although no clear explanation of the risk reduction of European banks had been found. In other words, after all: although all the opinions constantly emphasised this independent study, when it came to the time for political decision-making, Finland was in any event involved in the early stages of these arrangements. So these statements didn't really matter. This goes back to these statements by the Committee on Finance, and I think that there is a very similar arrangement here, that it is nice for us to make such good statements in themselves, but they are binding on us while they are binding — perhaps until a new package comes along, perhaps just for this Parliament's time. But when the matter comes on the table and there is the same political pressure as it is now, then it will probably be evaluated using the overall political reflection again, just as it was in this advance of the resolution fund. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u76	Congressman Jukka Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u77	Madam President! The Government's claim that the aid package is precise is questionable. The proposal has not been defined in a way that is binding on the repayment of the funds in the package. There is a considerable risk that a country before the 56th due date will prove unable to pay its share, which would activate guarantee liabilities to Finland. The precise nature of Finland's responsibilities relies on the fact that even in problematic situations, i.e. when a country fails to make its payments, Finland's responsibilities could reach EUR 1.4 billion a year at most. With this package, the EU will be given the right to make budget deficits by financing them with a common debt and to raise funds for these purposes in different forms of taxation. This is a transition towards a federal state. This transition towards a federal state has not been adequately discussed either in Finland or elsewhere in the EU. It is a fact that the transformation of the European Union into a federal state is not acceptable to the majority of the Finnish people. The central problem with federal development is that we are losing our budgetary sovereignty and, at the same time, increasing transfers from Finland to other parts of the world and Finland's responsibility for the debts of other EU countries, which in the long term weakens the sustainability of Finland's debt and the ability of the Finnish State to cope with its tasks without major expenditure cuts. It would be easier for Finns to accept spending cuts along their teeth if expenditure cuts are made in a situation where Finland does not have to guarantee the debts of other countries. With the European Union's aid package, the situation will be completely different and spending cuts to the state budget would be very challenging to justify in the eyes of the public. The adoption of the EU support package means that in the future we could refer back to the EU Treaties. Since the package does not substantially improve the situation of over-indebtedness countries and crises will always come, it is likely that the threshold for the new package will be permanently lower. Now that we begin to interpret the rules of the European Union loosely, new packages will come here to the Finnish Parliament for approval at an even lower threshold. We Finns have been intimidated both in Finland and Brussels to accept this package. The same pressure will continue in the future if the package is not brought down and renegotiated at the EU negotiating tables. It is clear that it will be even more difficult to oppose the next package. In our opinion, the fall of the package is in the interests of both Finland and the EU. We do not want a federal state in the EU. Mr President! Earlier that day, we heard Prime Minister Marin praise that the Finnish Government was successful in its goal of negotiating the EU aid package. Everyone has been given the impression that negotiations have certainly taken place there as closely as Mr Tokmanni, when he goes to southern Europe with his full trailer truck to trick the Italians. With the recovery fund, the European Union will be given the right to make budget deficits, to finance them with a common debt and to raise funds for these purposes from the Member States in the form of various taxes. Surely it is more clear to the Members of Parliament who are in the Chamber with a common sense that this is a transition towards a federal state. So now I ask the Finnish taxpayers how you see that the government believes that exporting Finland to a permanent transfer union and a federal state is like a great victory for the government and the Finnish people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u78	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u79	Mr President! Reviving the national level would be genuinely accurate for Finland and would actually improve our economy. On the other hand, the debt taken together takes Finland and the European Union towards heavier joint responsibilities and binds the Member States more closely together. Finland has neither joined nor committed to such a common debt union. The recovery instrument means turning the EU increasingly into a Union of transfers, joint debt and tax without consulting the citizens of the Member States. This is a serious insult to the Finnish people, but also to the democracy and transparency that the EU has emphasised. The arguments put forward by the Marin government and several experts on the need for a package are inaccurate and questionable. Not many impact assessments have been carried out either. In addition, the Ministry of Finance's memorandum estimates the growth-enhancing effect of the recovery package even to be very small. So what are we getting into? When the country-specific payments and receipts of the package are netted, it is obvious that the recovery package is a transfer package for the Mediterranean countries and for the Eastern European countries that are critical of the EU. This is not a corona package or a stimulus package, but a package for political stability. This is a political line that will change the whole EU economic system from a market economy to a long step in a more socialist direction. Finland’s position in the whole recovery package has been ridiculously poor. Finland has a desire to influence large tables, but what does this offer in concrete terms if the negotiating table does not dare even defend or promote national interests? This is a confusing question. This has been repeated all the time since I have been in Parliament since 2011, that when we are good and involved, we have influence. If that influence is never used, is it any use? And you can also ask if it exists. Are we just ridiculous fools who are smiled at because we know that we are always involved in everything? Even if the EU does not have a plan for the recovery package to collapse, new plans would be quickly envisaged. This is also evidenced by recent history. When Poland and Hungary were not enthusiastic about the recovery package at the end of last year, the Commission quickly started working on a contingency plan. The recovery package would have been implemented as a separate intergovernmental agreement without Poland and Hungary if the countries had not finally complied with the package. However, the position of Poland and Hungary on the negotiating tables improved considerably when the cape of the throwing bag disappeared from the shoulders of the countries, so why are we not like Poland and Hungary? Innumerable times Poland has fought hard, refused to be a throwing bag. And the last time I was in Poland, the Poles proudly presented billions of projects. When I went to the volleyball World Championships there is a huge industrial area, from the 19th century such a red brick industrial area. That place has been turned into a shopping centre and a cultural centre and a centre, and there are big signs that it is made with EU money, and there is an EU flag shining. But I don't see how it has anything to do with... — why we pay for this kind of shopping center in Poland. I would have liked to have had a shopping centre like that in Finland too, it was nice enough. Finland is a small country and is no bigger than the size of the negotiating table. Finland's refusal or exclusion from the package does not mean that the EU is broken down, that it is swarms of locusts or anything else that has been intimidated. But what's certain is that you get nothing without asking. If we never ask for anything, we will not get anything there. Finland must absolutely reject the package and negotiate a replacement in which we will not lose our budgetary sovereignty. European recovery does not require such a recovery instrument. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u80	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u81	Madam President! The EU Recovery Package has already been on the agenda in several speeches today. Now that we are giving our euro to distant countries, perhaps decades from now, we will be rewarded, perhaps, hopefully. There are few similar stories in history, with the exception of the Greek subsidies. Will the money given to Southern Europe save our own Finland? Is there nothing we can do but be a cash machine? In reality, the success and activity of Finnish society is domestic, regional and made by Finnish citizens. It does not come from Brussels, in my opinion. Is there anyone in the EU who wants to concentrate more and more Member States' power on Brussels? Finland is independent and its people must have their say. Without the mandate of the people, the decisions of the present government cannot be acted upon in this matter either. The EU is a trade union, or at least that is what Finland joined in 1995. It is certainly not a federal state, but how has the Union changed and why? Now, the EU recovery package, which our current government is following, differs greatly from the original nature of the EU to which we once joined. Is that a step towards a federal state? Will it open a gateway to the Union for Income Transfers? The long-term impact of leaving the CPR can be large. The current government made its own decision too quickly and with a limited evaluation and public debate, which we Finns in Finland now very much wanted, for example, during next Thursday's Question Time to clarify further. This requires an in-depth analysis and parliamentary examination in order to understand what the current government is committing itself to. There are two major questions: will it lead to federal development and will the transfer of our funds to southern Europe really bring us some improvement? Is the EU now going to take over the economic power of its Member States and turn the EU into a federal state? The EU was largely created on the basis of the Maastricht Treaty. With the new package, those principles have been rejected. The States of the United States have their own economic power, and The Swiss cantons are responsible for their own economy. The federal government or the Federation won't intervene. Perhaps that is why these alliances have worked long and successfully. There are 26 cantons in Switzerland that form the Swiss Federal Republic. The cantons are administratively independent and have their own constitutions, their own legislative and executive and judicial bodies. The same should be true in Finland, and they should also remain here. The EU is a Union, but not a federal state. We are now pursuing a model in which countries are responsible for each other's debts or financial support. Denmark and Sweden were very shrewd about the form of the EU support package. Regrettably, Finland was drawn as an authorising officer, but do we have anything else to lose? The overall impact of the commitment to the recovery fund is at least unclear to me. Finland will cost the EU billions, and in years or decades, it will probably get back a few billion, hardly that either. In decades' time, where have these euro notes finally returned to Finland been directed? It seems that the government parties have, as it were, promised each other in advance to divide them into their voting districts before the EU Recovery Agreement has even been decided in Parliament. What do we expect, for example, the billions that have gone to Italy to actually bring Finland? What branch of the export industry will then succeed? Is the money going to any reasonable targets at all? If the recovery package in this form is implemented, the countries to which it is directed can then be more confident that, in the event of difficulties, other countries and the ECB will save them again with new aid. Where, in turn, does the money that may be returned to Finland in the years to come go in the first place? Does free money go to reasonable, Finland-building and maintenance sites? Should aid not now be targeted at Finland in a deliberate and local way instead of in southern Europe? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u82	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u83	Mr President! A few words for the background. First of all, I do not personally accept any packages which undermine the well-being of Finnish society, the Finnish people, this country, farmers. I do not accept the debt burden for the unborn Finns under any circumstances. President! A little background: Finland joined the European Union with great promises and nothing was said about the cost of membership of the Union. During the 94 referendum campaign, Finnish media sought to get citizens to join the EU with cheap promises of a better standard of living. Well, the European Union has not brought heaven to earth, as claimed by Finnish EU activists in 1994, but has turned into a Union of transfers, where Finland is a clear net contributor to its size. Almost all of Finland's membership has cost the EU more than it has received. The maximum fee has been nearly EUR 1 billion per year. Year after year, the European Court of Auditors has received serious criticisms from the European Union’s financial management. In particular, the use of cohesion funds has been unclear in a number of Member States. Well, no wonder. In part, with the expression of these shortcomings, the European Union has sought to make its budget more independent from the Member States through the so-called own resources system, where, through various EU taxes, as is the case today, Member States would automatically earn a certain share of the tax revenue in Brussels, a black hole. Such a reform must be viewed more than critically. Well, if we are to continue in this dim state of affairs — as a personal opinion I no longer hope — then Finland must defend the current practice of the Council, in which case the EU contribution will be determined by national gross national income, enabling the Member States to retain in their hands the definition of the size class of the EU budget. It is important for Finland to be placed among those EU Member States that drive spending discipline. Finland should not accept increases in membership fees for the financial framework period 21 to 27 under any circumstances. Above all, it is extraordinary that Finland’s political discourse is dominated by the notion that the dumping of money for the EU brings added value. However, no one will tell us what added value the EU’s enormous administrative costs bring. Finland must demand that all EU administrative sectors be subject to savings. In this way, agriculture, which is important to Finland, can also be maintained. You don't compromise, you don't save. Finland needs security of supply, and our agriculture is its foundation. Well, a good place to save money is, for example, the European Union External Action Service, which costs about EUR 1 billion a year. I believe that the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee should also be abolished, which will cost hundreds of millions of dollars, because they will play an advisory role. Indeed, as the world's largest donor of development aid, the EU can afford to reduce its development aid, as I believe Finland does. Finland's development aid should be put at zero immediately until our economy is positive, i.e. positive. The European Union must also make drastic cuts to the level of convergence aid to third countries. Finland must oppose the creation of new EU agencies. The seat in Strasbourg must also be abolished, because it is absurd for Parliament to have to move from Brussels to Strasbourg once a month. This costs EUR 114 million per year, i.e. travelling. That's insane — and you're paying. For the sake of fairness, savings should also be targeted at administrative structures. The interests of European Union officials, pensions and tax-free allowances should be substantially reduced. Well, uncontrolled immigration must be stopped, because in 2015 its external borders fell illegally into the EU, crossing more than one million asylum seekers. This, if anything caused the expense. This, if anything, is one of the reasons why today we are discussing these absurd packages of aid, because the EU is running out of money, and that is one of the reasons for it — not to mention other mild phenomena that this is causing. I don't want this to happen again. The European Union's inability to act led to a serious strain on the social security system in several Member States, to the erosion of social cohesion and to the weakening of internal security, and again to the point where money is needed, and another reason why we are discussing this issue. [The President : 5 minutes! ] Moreover, unfortunately, between 2015 and 2018, several Islamic terrorist attacks were carried out in EU countries, facilitated by the leakage of the EU's external borders, free movement within the Schengen area and the general chaos caused by the migration crisis in the Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u84	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u85	Madam President! Today, Wednesday 12.5th, is a Finnish day. At least we Finns will flag for the preservation of Finnish culture, national identity and independence. The Finnish day is named after Johan Wilhelm Snellman. It was Snellman who was the driving force behind the introduction of the Finnish markka and the formalisation of the Finnish language. This year it has reached 155 years since Snellman’s financial reform and the birth of the silvermark. Marka was removed from the ruble value and tied to the silver stock in 1865. Snellman saw the national spirit pulsating in Finland. Snellman saw that institutions can be built around this, whose development, together with the will of the people, eventually led to Finland’s independence. Such patriarchs and pioneers Finland now needs. We have gone a long way since we had such a head of state and a great head of state as Snellman, who thought in the interests of the Finnish people. The water has flowed quite far in Finland where, when we are on the European leash, even to such an extent that today, on this sacred day, we would have wanted to vote for Finland as a permanent slave to the European Union's financial instruments. Aren't you ashamed of the government? Don't you have any shame that you planned a vote like this for a day like today? This did not happen to the True Finns, and that is why we are still discussing it here. Mr President! The present government seems to be primarily in the interest of Europe and, in particular, of southern Europe. And, of course, it is about saving your own face on the EU tables, because the Prime Minister and many ministers have said that what has been agreed must be adhered to. They did forget, however, that there is still a parliament in Finland, representatives elected by the people who ultimately decide these matters, and that is why it seems shameful that we should go and settle matters without first asking democracy. According to Mr Tuppurainen, thinking of his own people first is even harmful. This is the kind of decision-making that we have in this government that blames those MPs and citizens who defend Finland's sovereignty, Finland's right to defend our sovereignty in economic matters, as in this debate on the aid package. Aren't you, members of the government, ashamed? Prime Minister Marin has described his success in the negotiations on the recovery package. However, the negotiations neglected to respect the views of the Constitutional Committee. And when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided that the adoption of the recovery package and the EU budgetary framework would require the support of a two-thirds majority in Parliament, the demars opposed that too. Unbelievable. One cannot help but wonder why this government is trying so strongly to nullify Finland's interests and sovereignty. This was also seen in the fact that when citizens called for a referendum, it was not even wanted to be discussed in this Chamber except by the Finns of Peru. This house and its operation have become quite strange. Mr President! The True Finns disagree with the necessity of the package. In fact, the economy is recovering in the European Union without this and the willing Member States will be able to negotiate for themselves a new package in the event of the current collapse. Above all, the Finns do not believe that the solution is a one-off solution. With regard to its use as an example for future packages, too many mouths have been spoken from the large Member States that the claim of uniqueness should be credible. True Finns do not believe that the EU will ever return to the old normal in economic policy terms. Mr President! Today's Finnish
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u86	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u87	Madam President! The key phrase in this own resources decision is recovery. The billions now planned for use are apparently some magic billions, because they are claimed to have a much greater impact than all the thousands of billions that the European Central Bank and the public and private sectors have pumped into the economy by indebtedness over the past few years. Logic seems to be the same for those who talk about resuscitations as the slot machine in the lobby with a gambling addict who has no money: when the previous euros have not been won, you always have to add a little more. There's a couple of bends in the way of resuscitation. The first is that the main use of the resources of the recovery instrument will spread over the years 2022 to 2025, when the economy is already on the increase. Apart from the fact that there is no need for resuscitation, it is absolutely damaging. This may be the case with the wrong timing of recovery measures to heat the economy so that the ECB has been forced to reduce the amount of money and raise interest rates in a situation where the economy has been leveraged to the extreme. Even a small interest rate increase is enough to wipe out all the benefits of resuscitation, and that is not enough. Another problem is that resuscitation does not appear to have any leverage effect. Gross domestic product will grow one in proportion to spent debt, i.e. if the government takes a billion dollars in debt and spends it on recovery, GDP will grow by one billion while there is enough money and then return to normal. Debt recovery does not create a lasting increase in demand for debt-based consumers taxed on a backlog that the private sector could invest in. The central government collects just under 20% of GDP as taxes. For a billion billion dollars of debt, the government receives tax revenue of less than 200 million. You might as well try to finance drinking with bottle-return money. The Government's preliminary recovery and recovery plan estimates the macro-economic impact of what is expected for Finland of just under EUR 2.1 billion. It is worth noting that the recovery of 20-25 will include expenditure increases of EUR 2.7 billion decided by the Marin government. In the same period, the recovery instrument would be slightly over 1.1 billion, i.e. a total recovery of over 4.6 billion. Madam President! What do you get for 4.6 billion? In the first year of the recovery, GDP will grow by 0.3 percentage points more than without recovery, in the second year by 0.1 percentage points more, and then GDP will grow at the same rate, revived or not. This is thus stated in the government's own papers at the same time as the explanatory statement of the own resources decision is divided into a series of resuscitations. In fact, it is such a complex, multi-variable problem that nothing really can be said about the impact of the recovery billions. The only certainty is that Finland will be faced with debts that are paid either in the form of additional membership fees or EU taxes. In all cases, the bill is paid by consumers and taxpayers, who were not even bothered by the government to ask permission to do so. I saw it in Finland. Then there are the Member States, such as Romania, Slovakia, Bulgaria and Croatia, which receive recovery funds ranging from 6% to 11% of their gross domestic product. It will be impossible for these countries to spend money productively in a few years because they have not been able to make effective use of the EU's normal financial programmes. Italy is also one of a group of countries whose ability to make effective use of EU funding has been weak. As the main beneficiaries of the recovery instrument are the most indebted, it is more difficult for Finland to create permanent effects in such a way that private investment can be mobilised. So the whole arrangement is not really about recovery, it is about protection money for Italy and Spain,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u88	Congressman Jukka Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I now read to you a letter from Docent of Economics, Thomas Malinen, addressed to all 200 Members of Parliament: ‘The honourable Member, I would like to use your time to think about how the EU’s EUR750 billionrecovery fund will The biggest change is that Article 310 of the Treaties prohibiting the budget deficit, the transfer of fiscal income, or Article 125 of the Treaty prohibiting grants, and the budgetary sovereignty defined by our Constitution, are re-interpreted so that the EU can take debt from our guarantee and distribute it as grants. Through the adoption of the Fund, the EU will become a fiscal union. In its decision on Pringle in 2015, the EU Court of Justice stated that EU transfers should not encourage Member States to suffer from poor economic performance. What would happen if the EU, through the Fund, started to distribute fiscal subsidies to poorer countries and poor countries in their economic affairs? I am not a lawyer, but I believe that this would be precisely a violation of the ruling of the European Court of Justice. What is even more important is whether you are prepared to accept that we should move on to the fund by approving the EU fiscal union and ultimately to the federal state. As you well know, the EU is planning a number of new taxes at EU level that would in practice take us to the federal state. This is where the trust fund would open the door. The Government and, among other things, the Coalition Party Management have assured us that the package is unique. As I explained earlier, this is in no way a credible analysis due, among other things, to the large state taxes in Italy and Spain. The fund will be almost 100% guaranteed to continue with what some EU leaders have already flashed. Who will take responsibility if and when this happens? I have been afraid from the outset that the fiscal union created by the recovery fund would weaken the EU by ultimately turning the citizens of the northern and southern Member States against each other. The Fund is the last step on the road to solidarity that was opened in the summer of 2011 when the second Greek aid package was adopted. We did not join a Union in which we are responsible for each other's debts and expenses, but a Union in which we enjoy free trade, cross-border cooperation and increased living standards through economic growth. What happens if the Member States are tied together with the Fund, not in terms of economic benefits, but in terms of financial responsibilities?’ I now appeal to the representatives of all parties: to stop this absurd EU aid package and renegotiate the package. There is still time before the vote to go in front of the mirror and really wonder whether conscience will allow such a package, which the majority of the Finnish people will not accept. Mr President! Here earlier in the day, a representative of the Government Party highlighted the importance of the support package for Finland's exports. Once this European Union recovery package has been discussed in this Chamber and elsewhere, the government has constantly stressed the importance of the aid package for exports to Finland. The largest export countries in Finland since last year were Germany, Sweden, the United States, the Netherlands, China, Russia, the United Kingdom, France, Estonia and Belgium — the largest export countries. I repeat: Germany, Sweden, the United States, the Netherlands, China, Russia, the United Kingdom, France, Estonia, Eesti and Belgium. Italy or Spain, for example, are not among our largest export countries, whose economies are weak and which benefit most from the package. Let me repeat, just in case: no Italy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u90	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u91	Mr President! I wonder about the lack of public debate around the recovery package. The debate has largely been left to the hands of active citizens and journalists who are mainly agnosing the package. The government, and the Prime Minister in particular, have seemed reluctant to participate in a public and critical debate. The decision of this scale should definitely have been subject to the opinion of the citizens. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs estimates that the recovery fund is so important a transfer of powers to the EU that it can only be approved by a two-thirds majority of the votes here in Parliament. This is by far the largest legal and economic decision of the Parliament, with its effects more than 30 years away. I believe that a referendum could well have been held. It is therefore surprising why the citizens' initiative for a referendum, which collected the 50,000 signatures required in less than a week, moved at a snail pace in the parliamentary process. Of course, some answers were received along the way, including during Question Time on 3 December. The Government's statements called for representative democracy and the choice of current decision-makers. However, the public's opinion on the EU recovery package has not been asked, and even the parliamentary elections held in 2019 cannot be considered a measure of the public's feelings, since there was hardly any idea of such a transfer of power and the creation of a common economy. At the beginning of May, a survey commissioned by the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Sector reported that the majority of Finns agreed to the EU Recovery Package. Unfortunately, the questionnaire had been conducted in a leading way rather than being neutral, for example, by ‘should the package be approved’, ‘yes’ or ‘no’. For citizens and for decision-makers, it would be useful to highlight key comparisons between the Member States: for example, how households in Italy, which is part of the over EUR 200 billion of the recovery package, are more wealthy than Finland — Italy’s gold reserves are also the third largest in the world, but it has announced that it will not sell a gram of it to finance its economy — or how, for example, almost debt-free Estonia will fall short of the recovery package of EUR 6 billion. This increase in the Estonian government budget threatens to overheat the market. The same is a threat to the economy of Finland and the euro area as a whole, especially now that the market is showing signs of recovery. If the recovery continues in a boom, when can we return to the path of economic discipline? The criticism of the recovery package is not populism. It is populism, for example, to offer disgruntled countries in southern Europe loose money. In fact, all over Europe, there are already areas of use for money: Spain is starting to experiment with a four-day working week, Hungary is planning to exempt people under 25 from income tax, and Italy is starting to pay child supplements up to the age of 21. Finland, where the overall tax rate is one of the highest in the EU, is part of the funders of these experiments, as if we ourselves had no use for that money. How money is actually controlled is also a question mark. Companies or public entities are likely to use recovery funds to carry out projects that would have already been carried out but have not yet been launched.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u92	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u93	Madam President! Now we have a really, really big issue on the table, the EU's own resources. To begin with, you have to wonder that the ministry is empty. No minister has come to hear us or to answer our questions, which we would certainly have. We're in the middle of a bad place. Now the decision-making process has become a matter in which we give billions, billions, to the countries of the South. This will indeed happen if the government does not change its position. The worst part is that there will be common debts, large solidarity and so will common taxes. Mr President! It would have been time for a referendum. People were asked about this in 94, but now is really the time to ask again. At the time, accession was justified by the fact that there would be clear economic benefits. It was argued that better times would start for businesses and that the market could expand in the Union. It was seen that the economy would develop upliftingly. It was also seen that we can influence even more big decisions than if we were not involved in the EU. The plans were great, but we weren't prepared for everything, absolutely not. Now we've seen it. This has happened. So, what did the opponents think? They thought the other way around. We have already seen the realism that it is no longer up to us to decide as much as it used to be. Let's use the mouth of a bigger man to dictate the terms. It has already been understood how this will affect agriculture, for example, and it has indeed done so. Before the EU, many said that agriculture was more profitable in the past. Farms have stopped, farms are getting bigger and people are struggling to survive. There were also fears and tensions about the impact of the opening up of borders. It has had its consequences: the borders are leaking. Parliament made a big decision. It was November 18th, 94 C.E. And then it was over. At the same time as Finland was incorporated into the EU from the beginning of 1995, Austria and Sweden joined. It is extraordinary that another strong step was taken at the same time. It was not specifically asked of the people. So we joined EMU, and that's how we got the new money. Marka gave way to the euro. The euro was the fashion word of its day. There was a word in the euro all over the place. It was linked to the names of the companies, it was linked to the names of the products. After all, we even had our own purses for the euro. After all, some of the bills were big and nice, so big, they were ashamed of the size of the markka notes. In 2002, the new fine money came. A few moments were spent at the same time with marks and euros. After all, it sounded great that a Finn could pay the same money when he visited the Canary Islands as he did in his own country. I must have felt like a citizen of the world. Somehow sometimes I wonder: What if we hadn’t gone into this? What if we were independent? What if we had more cooperation with the other Nordic countries? What would be the situation now? Somehow I think it would be quite interesting for Finland. Perhaps we would cooperate more with similar countries, as with other Nordic countries. Now it's harder. We have commitments for the EU and we are restricted by the EU. It would have been time to ask the people and let the people decide. That is what we Finns would have done, but I think the government was afraid to ask the people. Or are those voting papers that expensive? Well, they're not. Admittedly, I have wondered about the decision-making of the government. Why are there no impact assessments on such a big issue? Let's go on a moody and emotional basis, even in the economy. This stimulus package totals 750 billion. It is quite an addiction package because money is being given to the southern Europe, where taxes are being circumvented for 800 billion dollars a year. Shouldn't we fix that? I should fix that problem, not just give him some gift money. Yes, we must put Finland first and not other countries. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u94	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u95	Mr President! Someone might wonder why we're here talking when we get here. We are talking here because this decision is so important to Finland that, in the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it actually requires a two-thirds majority of this Parliament, because it transfers powers so significantly to the EU, and that is what it is all about, not only does this package end in 2058, but it does not actually end in 2058. So it is the time when our 5-year-old grandchild is 44 years old, when he is paying for this package and his child is paying for this package, and in that respect time should be spent on this from many different points of view. The most worrying thing is that the EU Treaty is being stretched in a way that will continue to enable this type of package to be put in place, and the grandchildren will also pay for it. Nor has this been the case at the time when the EU was established. It was more of a free trade area for sovereign states and should have been regarded as such. In fact, the vote on EU membership in 94 has been the only vote in which Finns have had a say, and the EU was quite different from today's EU. After all, the Finns have not even been able to vote since then, and I bet that the Treaty of Lisbon of 2009 is quite poorly known among the Finns. This is what the Treaty of Lisbon was supposed to be like, an EU constitutional project which apparently met with opposition, and then this kind of Treaty reform was made, that when, earlier in the original Treaty, the members of the European Parliament were representatives of the peoples of the states, so with this Treaty of Lisbon they became representatives of the citizens of the Union, which already tells us what it is about. And I would like to quote a little more about this Treaty of Lisbon from the European Parliament's website, which has shortened this. This is a good thing for all citizens to read what is at stake, but I would like to raise one point here: ‘The Lisbon Treaty clarifies the competences of the Union for the first time. It distinguishes three types of jurisdiction. The exclusive competence of the Union means that only the Union acts as legislator and Member States merely implement Union law.’ And this already tells us that we are quite deeply involved in many aspects of integration, but unfortunately, Mr President, we are now breaking the last lock in the way of federal development by opening up a common debt and transfer union, and that is why the Finns are opposed to this. We are a strongly nationalist party. We want to defend Finland, the Finns, while at the same time being international, but I do not think it can be that we should promote this type of development, in which, in practice, Finland's influence is decreasing even more. With this package, we will be paying. And in fact we also know that many countries in the EU have long been pushing for social security harmonisation. This has not been a success so far, but just last weekend's European Council meeting, in which Prime Minister Marin represented Finland, Mario Draghi came out saying that in June he could start negotiations. [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u96	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u97	Madam President! Instead of this common debt package, all the countries of the European Union could themselves revive their own economies, some better, some weaker. Finland could spend a lot more money on sparring companies in its own business life and ensure that private investments are generated by leverage. We ourselves could make such a stimulus to support goals that we ourselves would like to see. Finland would be able to spend a lot more money on this if the same money were not recycled through Brussels and distributed to countries that are less well-managed. As we know, Finland has, after all, given little support to its own businesses during the corona crisis. Every day, MEPs continue to receive emails from entrepreneurs in different fields who are very concerned not only about their own survival, but also about the future of their own economic activities and enterprise. If all the countries were to revive themselves, that would be a good basis for effort. For example, I have no objection to the Council devising some guidelines on what countries can focus in particular on in their recovery. It is clear that the European Union wants to emphasise the green transition and climate policy and digitalisation, and these can certainly be quite good objectives for the Union in some respects, so it would also be quite possible to coordinate a certain number of national revitalizations. And it is quite clear that it is of course important for all EU countries that the European economy recovers. This is the kind of phrase that is being put forward here as an argument for this package, which, of course, is not. The massive debt package is not the most sustainable and sensible alternative to this. As we know, Italy could also revive itself. It could not do it as cheaply as Finland, but it could do it anyway. On the other hand, it could use existing mechanisms, the ESM or the IMF, for example, to support its own recovery. But, as we know, it would be much more difficult and challenging for it, because these mechanisms are subject to certain requirements and conditions and would result in Italy having to make at least some difficult decisions in its own domestic policy. Mr President! The package includes common debt and gifts and — let me be frank — bribes to southern Europe. Over these days and weeks, we have heard a lot of excuses for this package. Sometimes it increases exports — perhaps the most common argument last summer — it is a solidarity package and sometimes even a security measure against Russia. In fact, even the Chinese card has recently been raised in Parliament. Therefore, even if the recovery package is beneficial from many perspectives in the short term, what the Finns here particularly want to emphasise is its long-term effects. In the long term, the increase in debt liabilities and the fact that the Finnish taxpayer finances tax cuts in southern countries, reckless economic activity, is not profitable, nor is it profitable for the Finnish industry. And then there is, of course, this legal change in the direction of the Union in terms of competences and principles. Well, it is claimed that Finland suffers reputational disadvantages and falls on the sidelines of the EU if the package is knocked down. But are reputational disadvantages even more important then than Finland’s sovereignty? And what is the reputational disadvantage of not being treated so positively? Would those cheek kisses be weaker, less passionate? Could former ministers perhaps get weaker jobs in Central Europe? Have we had a good negotiating position in the EU so far, and have we been consulted? Have we been able to make a difference? Where and how? I would like to know in concrete terms what these are, where our negotiating capital and our good trust have resulted in us having some things that we would not have achieved without them. So I am not aware of these, and many times in this Chamber I have called for them. But, Mr President, I will continue for a moment. If we were now calling for further negotiations, we would not be alone, as has been said many times. There are critical voices in other countries as well. Unfortunately, there are also many Member States in the European Union where the debate on the recovery package or on European policy is not at all subject to parliamentary or civil debate, but I do not see that we here today should be particularly grateful that we are able to deal with this issue, which will have a significant impact on our country, that we should be grateful that a few people from Peru are here late in the evening to speak when the Chamber is empty. I do not see it as a privilege, but rather as a duty. Mr President! It is quite repugnant that Finland, which is in big debt even with its own recovery and economic problems, has to take turns financing each country that has failed to deal with it, but even more repulsive is the fact that those who decide to do so claim that it is in Finland's best interests. The Finnish Constitution defends national budgetary sovereignty, i.e. Finland decides for itself what the money collected from taxpayers is spent on. The debt package violates this principle and Finland is placed in a situation where it is no longer fully-fledged in the traditional sense. I really do not understand the people who have argued here today that this does not deprive us of our sovereignty or independence, that they are not, as it were, being handed away. It is precisely the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to demand a two-thirds majority on the basis of the argument that we are here giving Finland's constitutional sovereignty to something else, in this case the Union. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u98	Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u99	Mr President! The decision to join or not join the EU Recovery Fund is currently very important for Finland and all Finns. This decision is probably the most important decision, at least during this parliamentary term and possibly throughout the 2020s. It also applies to future generations, in particular because of their fundamental importance, and that is why, as Mr Rantanen has justifiably pointed out, we need to spend as much time here in Parliament as is necessary to deal with this issue. Mr President! In the Parliamentary debate, the Finns have clearly been the most active. Even now, there are no representatives of the other parties in the Chamber. The fact that the Finns have been active in this matter is no wonder in itself, because we consider the consequences of the recovery fund decision to be extremely important both economically and in principle. Under no circumstances should we underestimate the effects of this decision, precisely the negative effects, on the already in difficulty of Finland's public finances and on the Finnish taxpayers. I am more surprised that the representatives of the government parties have been rather silent on this issue throughout the course of the proceedings that have taken place here in Parliament. Perhaps many of them inside would like to vote against the government’s proposal in accordance with their conscience, but even more strict group discipline seems to prevent this. Of the government parties, the most hesitant are likely to be in the centre, and I would like to pay personal tribute to the representative of the centre, Mr Hannu Hoskonen, for bringing forward his own views strongly and defending them throughout the debate on the whole recovery fund during the year, probably under heavy pressure. I hope Mr. Hoskosen's line holds to the end. Mr President! One of the key objectives of the Finns Party is to reject the outcome of the negotiations on the Recovery Fund and to leave the funds released in the country. It is a matter of both economic and fundamental importance. Support schemes for joint borrowing by Member States should not even have been possible in the light of the EU Treaties, not to mention direct debt-funded grants. This was to prevent the moral deterioration of the Member States' finances, but with this decision on the recovery fund we are on the way to an ever worse moral hazard. Mr President! The EU Treaty prohibits the financing of the Union's activities with a debt and solidarity with Member States' debts. The mechanism now before us, the recovery fund, would not be temporary if it were to come about, even though other things have been vehemently claimed in the House by the government parties. It will be valid until at least the end of the 1950s. Almost four decades is a very long time, and no one can predict that far into the future, usually not even a few years away. Over the years, new and new needs for the use of the Fund will likely emerge within the framework of the EU. On the next occasion, it would be possible for the debt and aid rules of the Treaty to be ignored if this recovery fund decision were adopted to become a habit. If this happens, the Finnish Government will hardly object if this happens already during this parliamentary term or, perhaps even worse, if the current government base continues even after the elections. Mr President! It is quite clear that government parties are prepared to take a huge financial risk on the part of Finnish taxpayers if they accept the outcome of the negotiations on the EU Common Recovery Fund, supported by the opposition party’s coalition. In fact, it is not even possible to talk about the risk, but it is in practice a certain loss of at least EUR 4 billion. [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u100	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u101	Mr President! Finland’s independence is not self-evident. It has been achieved with the sweat and blood of previous generations. It's been paid the most expensive price. The interest crisis is nothing compared to the crisis in which our ancestors faced a firestorm in the foxholes. It is nothing compared to the fact that our grandmothers had to carry the fate of the country on their shoulders, to care for and care for the broken people and future generations. Then, if our independence was not given up, why now? We are threatened by the fact that the rejection of the recovery package would even jeopardise the EU's common security policy. It's hard for me to see the connection between the two. On the contrary, a stronger link with the EU would limit our power of decision in our own affairs and drive us closer into the EU's arms against its enemies. The EU has no army of its own. The Finnish Defence Forces and the Finnish Reserves only ensure Finland’s security. And even in our Constitution we still have a duty to the defence of the country, not to the defence of the EU. The rocking of the recovery package is described as playing into Putin’s bag. Mr Purra has already made some reference to this. However, Putin would only benefit Russia if the EU as a whole were to weaken to the level of its weakest link. Moral deprivation and fragmentation resulting from the rejection of the EU's own Treaties are real Putin’s playing in the bag, the blow to the Finnish economy and the paralysis that intra-EU transfers would mean, only Russia’s strengthening vis-à-vis Finland. Patriotism is first and last to care for our own affairs and interests. It cannot mean taking the debts of other countries on the hands of the Finnish people. It cannot mean a European cash-in-transit machine in which Finland is reserved the role of a payment man. Now is not the time to think about what other people in the EU think of us. Now is the time to think about what the people of us decision-makers think. It is regrettable that the government does not hold a referendum on the recovery package. It is regrettable that the government has not even clarified the opinion of the public on the recovery package. It is still regrettable that no impact assessments have been made on the impact of the recovery package. I wonder how complacent the defenders of the recovery package are in the face of such a huge lack of knowledge and lack of opinion. The coalition could give up the national word in front of its name — nationality is hardly visible, internationalism is all the more so, and it is not positive internationalism, but internationalism at our expense, forced on us and toxic. The debate here yesterday and today shows that the coalition is no alternative to the current government. Changing any party in the board would not change the way the government operates. The meeting shows socialism of the SDP and the Left Alliance, green climate hunk, the sheeplike defence of the RKP’s forced Swedish and the total spinelessness of the centre. However, some of the members of the Assembly have announced that they will not vote for the recovery package against a group decision. To the other Members of the Assembly, I suggest that you now look deep into yourselves and examine who you are standing in the ranks of. Where's the old home, religion and patriotic thinking? There are two positions on your behalf, and only one of them is correct. There's only one position.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u102	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u103	Madam President! Yesterday I asked Mr Vanhanen, Minister for Finance, about the EU recovery package negotiations last summer. I asked him to confirm the outcome of the negotiations on the four sides of Finland and the moor. Unfortunately, the Minister did not answer my question. Of course, this did not surprise me. Prime Minister Marin last said here in plenary today that he negotiated a great deal for Finland. It contained what was called a 500 million envelope. The Prime Minister said he was more successful in budgetary negotiations than a snoopy foursome. As a result of the negotiations, Finland was able to maintain the level of funding for agriculture. So instead of the membership fee reduction, Finland chose separate funds, EUR 400 million for rural development and EUR 100 million for regional development in Eastern and Northern Finland. In particular, the centre has been delighted and boasted about this. Let us take a closer look at this excellent outcome of the Prime Minister's negotiations. The result of the negotiations announced by Mr Marin was that we received EUR 500 million in the envelope for agriculture between 21 and 27 years. When its impact is combined with the overall decline in the financing of the various CAP schemes under the EU's common agricultural policy, Finland's agricultural funding for 2021 to 2027 will improve by an average of 21 million per year, at current prices, without the resources of the recovery instrument. On the other hand, the countries of the Nuukka Four did not receive the same agricultural envelope. As a result, for example, Swedish agricultural funding will decline by around EUR 44 million a year — but Sweden demanded and received an annual reduction of EUR 1069 million. Compared to the 2014-2020 framework, the reduction in membership fees is approximately EUR 499 million more each year. In view of the fall in agricultural funding, Sweden received a bonus of EUR 455 million every year in these negotiations. The government doesn't even want to discuss it. The government will not answer any questions about this. In other words, Finland will receive a bonus of EUR 21 million per year, Sweden EUR 455 million. That's a great deal. And this amount, EUR 455 million, is roughly the same as Sweden's annual contribution to the relief loan of EUR 390 billion from the Recovery Facility. Do you think it's a coincidence? Madam President! The reductions in membership fees negotiated by the other Member States of the Nuukka Four, namely Denmark, Holland and Austria, produced very similar results. Denmark's net net after agricultural financial losses is 218 million per year, the Netherlands receives a plus of 684 million every year and Austria also has EUR 539 million. The net size of each of the four countries in the bud is the same as their annual contribution to the relief loan for the recovery instrument. Is this a coincidence? As a result of the negotiations, the four countries of the Nuukka family receive hundreds of millions of pros each year, unlike Finland. Finland's contribution to the grant loan amounts to approximately 220 million per year, which means that Marin won 21 million per year in agricultural negotiations. Finland will pay 200 million more each year. This is not what the countries of the Nuukka Four have to do. A good deal for Finland — really? Madam President! In other words, the Commission offset the burden of payment coming from the recovery instrument for the mere four by reducing membership fees. This reduction was imposed on all the other Member States. Neliko's negotiating power also shows that when the reductions in membership fees were to end completely after 2020, [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u104	Congressman Mari Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u105	Mr President! I will therefore continue with this excellent speech by Mrs Rante to the extent that this good negotiating position and good negotiating skills in Finland seem to be the case with this package, while quite a few other things would certainly be left to be improved rather than just a little. Let us think that we should accept this package in order to maintain a good negotiating position. Well, let us take a look at Poland and Hungary, which we are pointing our finger at here for their violations of the rule of law, among other things. If they were to be rejected so much in the EU, how on earth are they able to get such good deals there? Such action should not have a good negotiating position. And I must say that I have been a Member of Parliament for about two years now, and these laws have come into this house and have been quite surprised here. For example, when we approved this European Public Prosecutor's Office Legislation on the EPPO in this Parliament some time ago, and even in that, Finland had forgotten that we have some different elements in the Constitution than we may have in other countries. Such matters should certainly be able to be negotiated in the EU, but, as I read directly from this Treaty of Lisbon, quite a few things are currently being decided by qualified majority in the EU, and in that respect Finland's negotiating position is quite poor. And I have to say, obviously, we have... I do not know whether we consider all the legislative work that is being done in the EU and is being negotiated by Finland under the auspices of the ministries to be a good deal, in fact, everything that comes out of it, because now it seems that we are going to miss out on the far-reaching impact that is where we could still be affected. In particular, it should ensure that the legislation coming from the Union does not conflict with the Finnish Constitution, for example, but that does not seem to be the case, and that is certainly problematic in that respect. The EPPO is not the only one, there is much more. But, Mr President, I would like to return to today's sitting as far as the ministers were present. Minister Marin here specifically underlined that Finland's independence is not going anywhere at this point. I believe that this statement is quite contrary to the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the other hand, that significant powers are being transferred to the EU. Well, does that not mean that the sovereignty of Finland will be abolished, especially with regard to the budget, because now, in practice, this agreement binds the budget of the Finnish Parliament until 58? In any case, these responsibilities must be taken care of. And then the second thing I particularly remember from today's debate was that in the Chamber, in particular, the members of the Assembly asked on several occasions how these statements in the report of the Committee on Finance now affect Finnish EU policy. Well, this is perhaps a bit of a trick of this kind, since last summer the Constitutional Committee gave its opinion on this recovery package, and their statement then stated: ‘At this stage in the deliberations of the Council of State, the proposed Union borrowing and Member States’responsibleresponsibility for grant-based support instruments’. If the statement of the Constitutional Committee does not mean anything to the government, how would the statements of the opinion of the Finance Committee somehow guide them? I do not believe in this at all, and in this regard too, given the statement made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last summer, I consider it very special.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u106	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u107	Madam President! We are dealing with the use of EU money, and that is a big deal. The Finns of Finland think this is a very big issue and it needs to be dealt with thoroughly. It is unfortunate, therefore, that there still seems to be no representatives of the government parties in the Chamber. With the support of the Government, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for European Affairs have assured the usefulness of this recovery package for Finnish and Finnish exports. The European Minister himself has also spoken of the necessary evil. I wonder who the government thinks this is now. Does the government have a consensus on this? Is the package useful to Finland or is it a necessary evil? If necessary, what makes it necessary? As far as I know, we are still an independent state, and we must be able to decide for ourselves whether we will be tied to a huge debt by future generations. No one, no one can dictate the evils we need from the outside. If we are being imposed from outside, it must be told to the public. If we are not commanded, then there is no necessary evil, only a good or a bad option. Then the choice is easy. It is also assured that this is a unique recovery package to be taken during this government — a unique one. I am puzzled by the contradiction in this matter. If the recovery package is so useful for both Finnish and Finnish exports, why is its uniqueness highlighted? Is it not worth making an annual package that is useful for Finnish and Finnish exports? Then we would benefit Finns and Finland's exports every single year. Something tells me there's a contradiction here. However, does the government also consider that this package is not actually useful for Finnish or Finnish exports? I'm also curious about the precision. How can we start to guarantee the loans of others and give gift money to other countries if there is no precise information on the amount to be paid or received? If a Member State does not pay its share of the payments, how much is Finland’s share of the liabilities? What is Finland’s share of claims? That too seems to be getting smaller and smaller. Is there any in the end? Such things must be known before this is even proposed for approval. Does the Prime Minister, supported by the government, give a half-open mandate for the distribution and use of Finnish taxpayers' money for tax reductions, increases in child supplements, export subsidies or a four-day working week? This aid package is justified by the recovery of Finnish exports. Could someone, at least someone, from the government provide calculations as to how much Finland's exports are recovering precisely as a result of this aid package? I am interested in the recovery of Finnish exports, not EU exports, because at least we are not part of the EU federation, and I am therefore not so concerned about the recovery of exports from the countries of southern Europe. Where are the numbers? They haven't been presented. The government is very much comparing this aid package with the recovery packages of the United States and China, among others. The difference is that they revive their own land — their own land. We, as a net contributor, will only revive other countries with this aid package. Has the government already, in its thoughts and plans, taken Finland into the EU Federation when it hears statements that the thinking of its own people first is harmful — that is harmful? And how is reviving other countries also in Finland’s interest? Of course, this would be the case if we were part of an EU federation, but we are not, at least not yet. Has the government forgotten that we are still an independent state, at least for some time? There is no way in which we should go along with this package, under no circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u108	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u109	Madam President! A fundamental change in debt as the Union's financier and solidarity will guide us in a direction in which Finland cannot be the winner. In view of this fact, Finland's negotiating strategy, or even the actual receipts, is completely secondary to the proportion of payments we receive back. However, there was a great deal of talk about these, especially last summer after the negotiations, and the same debate will continue. From the outset, the technical procurement debate was used to dispel the fact that the role of the Union has changed. The truth is, of course, that as long as we are a net contributor, that is, as long as we are a member of the Union, we will not be allowed to pay. We recycle our own money through the Union. Secondly, this can only change in a situation where our economy has collapsed and, of course, no one wishes this to happen. It seems clear that these measures will not remain one-off. The Covid emergency became an excellent opportunity to implement the policy that a few large Member States have been trying to implement for years in the EU. On the other hand, we know that even the 750 billion package will not solve the problems that it would want or claim to remedy. It only calms the market a little, as well as politically, those who fear the strengthening of the EU's critical front. The recovery fund is a package of support to keep the euro up, and what will it do? All key problems remain, structural and administrative problems in southern Europe, problems of competitiveness between EU countries, in particular in relation to the United States and China, debt, budget deficits, disproportionateness, inefficiency and misuse of funds, for example in cohesion policy. No matter what parties are in the Italian government and where populism may have turned, the country will not take decisions that will help it in the long term. The huge grey economy, the problems of tax collection, the mafia and other corruption are rampant, and the country has a great interest in seeking relief from the Union. Mr President! Finland joined the Union 20 years ago and the euro in 2002 under the guidance of a referendum. The euro was born with a well-known runoff with which to live. Some benefit, others suffer. The single monetary policy, debt, slow growth, high domestic costs — they have derailed us to a path where our economy may recover more slowly than others, even though economic growth is very high. In the long term, we are giving away the welfare state, says Peter Nyberg, an advisor to the Bank of Finland, who is in favour of Finland's withdrawal from the euro, which he considers to be a straitjacket of the economy. The changes in EU activity over the past ten years are so significant and widespread that it is perhaps entirely justified to say that the EU is different today than it was in 95. And all those changes have been made without exposure to civil dialogue, not to mention democratic decisions. Finland's EU policy is far from democratic, even though we are able to discuss it here at the moment. We are going to have a further bill because of Italian recklessness and the Central European banks. What kind of money is this going to be? How much do your own taxes go up? How much more a Finnish worker can be taxed, especially as an increasing proportion of that amount seems to go to even the necessary places to benefit him and his loved ones, such as the basic services of the welfare society. Should we discuss how we should deal with the growing federal state? Should we talk about things with their real names? The fact is that Finns are not committed to a European Union, a Union of debt and income transfers, a financial union that is moving towards a federal state of complete self-interest. Some of the supporters of the package do not understand this point. Madam President! Just a minute longer. — — — — Some people don't care, some people want to move in this direction, but they don't have the nerve to tell you, others want to and tell you. These are in the minority, yes. And then there are those of us who may understand, we care, we do not want to move in that direction, and we will tell you that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u110	Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u111	Mr President! Finland’s public debt has increased dramatically during the corona crisis and by the Marin government. Unfortunately, however, Finland will soon not be in debt only by domestic means if Parliament approves the proposal for an EU recovery fund of EUR 750 billion. Despite its name, however, this fund has little to do with recovery or the corona crisis. In practice, it is a step towards income transfers, a debt union, even without citizens being allowed to express their views on this issue. Such a step is unacceptable to the Finns, neither now nor in other contexts. Our minimum requirement would have been for a referendum to take place. Mr President! From all accounts, citizens, or at least a very large proportion of the population, will not swallow up the prospect of a decision to participate in the recovery fund. Something can already be drawn from the huge flood of messages that we representatives have received in recent days and weeks from our citizens on this subject. I understand that these messages are a very serious and clear indication that ordinary people are very concerned about this situation and Finland's commitment to EU federal development through the introduction of the Recovery Fund. On the other hand, it is hardly a question of externally organised harassment, even though this has been claimed by some people. Citizens must be able to exercise their freedom of expression, even if their views are not always pleasing to the decision-makers, and this is the case here too. Mr President! As the citizens' initiative on the referendum on the EU Recovery Fund was seen in the parliamentary vote, the Finns of Peru would have liked the people to have been able to express their opinion in a referendum on this subject, which is extremely important for Finland's sovereignty, especially for the economy. However, neither the Government parties nor the Coalition Party agreed to that on Tuesday. So the public was not asked now, as was the case at the time with the accession to the euro. Let those responsible for these decisions explain to the potential questioners why and how this has happened. Mr President! In his opinion to the Committee on Finance, Dr. Peter Nyberg describes the legal problems of the recovery instrument as follows: ‘The link between a particular budget and the There has been widespread debate in Finland and elsewhere as to whether the way in which the recovery instrument is being implemented in practice violates at least Article 122 of the EU Treaty. Article 125 and Article 310 Although this may be a legal issue, it is clear from the economic point of view. There is no doubt that the exceptional situation has hit many and not one Member State. It is obvious that the allocation criteria for the recovery instrument will lead to transfers between Member States which will help some countries to meet their commitments. It is also clear that the Union's expenditure is financed by a loan, even though it goes beyond the actual budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u112	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u113	Mr President! The recovery package is in breach of the EU's own Treaties. They do not allow the financing of activities by joint debt. If the recovery package is implemented and Finland takes on liabilities from other countries, it violates the no bail-out principle that has been highlighted so far. It has been the consistent line of the Finns of Peru that the Treaties are adhered to and each country is responsible for its own debts. The Finns are not prepared to sell Finland to Brussels. Remember, I'm not sure. It is not even long since the SDP’s Jutta Urplainen, as Minister of Finance, granted loan guarantees to the euro crisis and appeared in public as Nanny Tight, and so only the Urpian road led to the present, perhaps the Commission’s poorest African Commissioner, despite the dream of the heavy portfolio of the Commissioner for Economic Affairs. A rather large amount of taxpayers' money was also preceded by the patronages of Jyrki Katainen and Alexander Stubb's Commissioner — the short-term ministers, for whom the history was not flattering and in whose estimation the people were not gentle. Once again, we find ourselves in a situation where EU-minded actors convince us that this is a temporary and unique one-off solution, just as the current finance minister, Matti Vanhanen, as the Prime Minister at the time, told us how Greek subsidies are a unique solution. History has an exciting way of repeating itself. The Government has bypassed legal issues by outsourcing the evaluation to the Council's legal services, the same instance that was given the role of a faceless threater through the Yle leak if the recovery package was threatened by a fall in Finland. It is rather worrying from the government that faceless EU bureaucrats have been given the highest powers of interpretation in the Treaties and the last word in the assessment of the consequences. There is good reason to question whether the primary concern of EU legal services is the interests of Finland or other small individual Member States or the interests of the large Member States and the institutional interests of the EU. The interpretation of the Treaties was politicised both with the EU and internally at home. Mr Marin negotiated a catastrophic package with a mandate from a large committee, despite the fact that the Constitutional Committee stated: ‘At this stage in the deliberations of the Council of State,the proposed Union borrowing and Member State’sresponsibility for grant-based support instruments is not accepted or advanced. “ In the negotiations that summer, the Prime Minister should have announced that Finland must first obtain the approval of the Constitutional Committee before he can commit to Finland's agreement. However, this was not the case with Prime Minister Marin, but with the Heads of State and Government shaking hands without Parliament, let alone the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs being clarified. The forthcoming vote will be historic: will we be the northernmost state of the EU in the future, or will our name remain among the independent nations? We have a matter of fate for our little people. Personally, I am not prepared to sell Finland or even rent it, although I suppose that after this decision, there would be another nice little prize ball for a good brother or sister. I don't support, and I don't approve of, good brother systems either.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u114	Congressman Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u115	Mr President! There has been a great deal of debate here since last summer on the fact that this is a unique package of support for the corona crisis. But the horses in the EU did not stay in their pants now, when Dombrovskis blabbed the day before yesterday that, in fact, this opens the way nicely for new packages. This became apparent in Finland too, after which he then tweeted in Finnish yesterday, in plain Finnish, a Latvian gentleman, that this is a unique and accurate one after all. I do not know who had sent it to him and asked him to tweet, but it seemed to me in some way a very sad way to influence Finnish politics. Yesterday it also became clear that the Greek and Spanish prime ministers met the day before yesterday, and their exit also said that they wanted to deepen EU integration and the adoption of this package will continue to open up this type of mechanism. And yet we are talking here that not that this is this time but that there will be no one else, or that others may be decided on another time. But somehow I would think that all this information we have about Europe, not only did the European Council last weekend contribute to this harmonisation of social security and unemployment security, but all of us are talking about deepening the EU integration and the Union for Income Transfers. And somehow I think that, when this is known, I think it is inappropriate to keep saying that this is just a one-time thing, that there is no Union for the transfer of income, that there is no decision-making power to move to the EU. If that is the case, then I think it must be possible for the decision-maker to tell the people as well. Now I feel like it's very difficult. So, if you really are a federalist, you think that more taxes can be imposed on Finns in order to harmonise social security in the EU area,for example. Mr President! The supporters of this package have come up with a number of other arguments as to why this should now be accepted. One of these is solidarity: solidarity drives us. But in fact, during this crisis, it was seen that solidarity will end evenly, at least when other countries need something. For example, our protective equipment orders were hijacked by other EU countries. Is it solid? I do not think so, and what we see here is that Finland, the Finns as good people, are very solidarityable, but when we need something, the others are not. The question then arises whether we too should be a little stricter in the negotiations and also in our own interests. The second point that has been raised is that the EU is a security community. In my view, since February last year, Turkey has constantly violated Greece's sovereignty over land, sea and air, and have you seen that the EU, as a security community, has played a very important role in this? As far as I can see, France was the only one who sent fighters to support and protect Greece. This has at least been a very eye-opening process for me, in my view, according to the message that Greece has become, because they have had to seek refuge in other countries and other countries, they have been very disappointed in this security community. And in this regard, I am afraid that we Finns today are a little naive and too kind and we imagine that we have some sort of security that we think we have, and in this regard too, Mr President, these arguments that have been heard in this Chamber are not entirely watertight. - Thank you. representative wrist
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u116	Madam President! Yesterday, the government parties and the coalition rejected the citizens' initiative to hold a citizens' vote on the recovery package. The bill, which includes a recovery instrument of 750 billion, will therefore be adopted without consulting the public. It means the collapse of the legitimacy of our decision-making system. The moral backbone of representative democracy is broken, and then everything goes. This is because none of the arguments and arguments put forward to Parliament and the people about the package are true. It is an intellectually dishonest legal project in the history of independent Finland. Some claims: ‘The package isrequired to address the consequences of the rona crisis. “ The truth is that the package has nothing to do with the corona pandemic and does not deal with it, but it aims to prevent the destruction of the euro. The claim: ‘Package supports structural reforms in problem countries. “ Truth: The package does nothing to remedy the structural problems faced by the problem countries of the euro. Well, at least the package creates a new spirit of community. That's not true. The package increases internal conflicts between the net contributor countries and tensions between the West and the East and between the North and the South. The soft argument that the package is a sign of solidarity between Member States is also nonsense. The package is the subject of blackmail against the EU by the southern problem countries, in particular Italy. A lot of information and expert opinions have emerged on the compatibility of the Treaties. Of course, this means that the purpose and significance of the national law of the rule of law cannot be explained entirely by politicians at a later stage, but it seems perfectly possible for the EU Treaties. It is disastrous for the legitimacy of the EU. Well, then it is claimed that the package must be implemented because it revives and the other option would be worse. It is quite clear that the package will be used instead of a stimulus to promote a green agenda. According to the impact assessments carried out in Finland, the green recovery does not even work. On the other hand, the debt recovery of pre-debted economies will reduce GDP compared to the baseline situation. EU simulations mean that in some countries the GDP impact of the package is negative but is not shown. Finland’s difficulties with the package will only make it worse. Madam President! The most dishonest of all is the claim that the recovery instrument is precise and one-off. The truth is that only Finland believes in this one-off nature by following international news. This is very childish. The threat of Italy becoming insolvent is significant, so that the country would not discharge its obligations vis-à-vis the EU budget rather than the recovery instrument. The maximum annual responsibility for the EU's ability to pay would then not be enough for the government. There is either a new package ahead, or the EU is facing payment difficulties. Valdis Dombrovskis, which has already appeared many times in this Chamber, was mostly ridiculous. So it was argued at first in the interview when he was interviewed that this recovery tool paves the way for new similar and permanent economic arrangements between the Member States, but then he really tweeted in English that this is a one-off, unique and strictly time-limited package. The transition to a debt union is not about changing this recovery instrument, but about the principles that will allow budgetary expenditure to be covered by a joint and several liability secured by the EU's tax law. The Commission has already shown that its imagination is sufficient to create a new form for each new one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u117	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u118	Honorable Madam Speaker! The clock is coming closer to midnight and there has been an in-depth debate here about this recovery instrument. Madam President, when I was unable to sleep, I thought I was going to make a few speeches. At this time of night, I like a good, peaceful debate on the matter and on matters. It has been different in the daytime, because there has been a bit of such an understating style and even a mockery about this. But I saw the Finnish day in the final class, J. V. In the last hour of Snellman's day, I say that every Member of Parliament in this Chamber is in favour of us Finland, the country of the country. Of course, things are discussed and things are divided. Mr President! Today and in the last 24 hours, much has been going on in this debate in the Chamber and in the public domain, mainly in terms of the payment and access appropriations for this package of recovery instruments, which I personally see as mainly financial details. The biggest issues in this recovery instrument are not the individual sums of money, but the larger political changes that this package will bring about. The package is not financially motivated at all, as the fiscal margins of the Member States could be secured by other means. As I said 24 hours ago, why not increase the size of the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism? Well, if this type of supranational recovery is to be carried out, it would be cheaper for the Member States of a stronger economy to issue their own bonds, collecting a fund for this purpose, so that the debt would be cheaper than the EU debt that is now being issued. Mr President! The political aspects of this package are as follows: 1) The package modifies the interpretation of the requirement for the balance of the European Union budget. When this package is adopted, it will therefore be possible, according to the Treaties, to create long-term budget deficits. 2) At the same time, the package will change the interpretation of the possibility of co-indebtedness against the European Union budget, i.e. Eurobonds. After the package, the interpretation of the Treaties will therefore change in such a way that it is possible to issue bonds against the EU budget. 3) The package further relaxes the perception of the possibility of transfers within the Union. Mr President! All in all, therefore, the objective here is clearly to change the Union's economic nature towards the federal state, and that is why it is essential that the package be integrated into the EU budget. When the budget is federalised, it will certainly be able to come up with all sorts of new fiscal tasks in the future, such as the Commission's pending proposal for a common system of unemployment insurance, for example. The Commission's approach is also questionable, to say the least. On economic grounds, a complex arrangement of this kind will be created, such as this recovery package, which will then have to be adopted quickly by everyone in this rush. Well, of course we haven't been in a hurry. We've been over this for a year. Or, if you don't accept in a hurry, the world will collapse. If these new arrangements are to be created, they should be implemented in a transparent and parliamentary manner, not through crises and the collapse of the world through intimidation. Mr President! Of course, the biggest thing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u119	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u120	Madam President! The recovery package is strongly linked to the single currency to save the euro. If you compare Finland with countries outside the euro, such as Sweden and Denmark, which are closest to us, you will see that these countries have generally managed better than the euro countries in terms of economic policy and perhaps even their well-being. Finland has never been one of the great beneficiaries of the single currency. We have had considerable slow economic growth since the financial crisis. Even at world level, we have been a country of weak growth. We're in a straitjacket right now. Of course, we have structural problems and major challenges in terms of sustainability, demographic development and so on, but the europakko shirt is one of the important drivers here as a whole. Paavo Lipponen's government decided to join the euro more than 20 years ago. Four years ago Paavo Lipponen said that the problem is not that the euro is not suitable for Finland, but that Finland did not fit into the euro. He assured us that the government under his leadership did not make any mistake in this respect. Well, a number of experts, both political and economic, have also disagreed over the years and have said that euro membership was at least partly a mistake. According to some estimates, the combined welfare loss of the euro countries as a result of the euro is now 20%. On the other hand, as has been said here, we have little choice. In practice, you cannot separate from the euro without leaving the EU. Another option is that the euro will drive into the wall despite a number of supporting packages, and that would certainly be the most negative scenario. Mr President! At the time of the accession to the euro, the EU's golden age was quite relaxed. At the time of the decisions, the Member States, including Finland, had a very childish credit and believed that the EU Member States would then play nicely according to the same rules and consistently strive for good financial management. Well, here again, the thought was not worth knowing, and pink glasses have often been taken off the face. At the beginning of 2002, at the start of the euro, I myself started a thesis seminar on international policy and I remember that the EU was still very idealistic at that time, sometimes even on a manic basis. Almost all the people in the region also wanted to study European studies, and it was seen that there was a great future. Many of the thesis also dealt with the common identity of EU citizens, for example, in some form of constructive analysis. It was thought that this is developing and that it will only take a few years, and the Finnish identity is somehow a common European. Well, this is not what happened. Of course, I am happy with it. As the government does not want to ask about this debt package, it was not at the time that people were bothered to ask about joining the euro. Of course, however, there is a need for citizens. They are trying to convince them, for example, by talking about solidarity or the promotion of exports, or, on the other hand, by horror pictures of the damage to their reputation and the fact that we will no longer be spoken to. But I find it very problematic that the real opinion of the public should not then be measured. It is known that EU support remains very high. It's even gotten a little bigger lately. However, as has been noted here in Parliament, so many people in the EU, even with great optimism, may be much more critical of this package itself. Those who are naive about the EU often want to remind them that there is no return to the past. Of course there isn't, and who wants to go there anyway? At least in my own view, it is the future of Finland that is at stake, and I believe that in 2021 we will be able to be politically, culturally and emotionally located in Western Europe without making any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u121	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u122	Madam President! Money and the EU — an interesting combination. And what do we get there? Finland will be able to recover a total of EUR 2.1 billion from the recovery package it has paid. Thus, Finland will lose EUR 4.5 billion in this agreement — if Finland can apply for all its funding. And this $2.1 billion ain't for sure either. The final amount will not be known until the package has been approved. I mean, this sounds pretty incredible. How can you put a name in a contract that you do not know what type of contract you put a name in? How can the government negotiate an agreement that knows about the amount that we are committed to paying and the amount that we may receive if we receive it? The impact assessments will come only after the package has been adopted. And have the impact assessments even been made? And how does the package affect Finnish exports? I don't think it's done properly. Indeed, the government has marketed this package with effects on EU exports. Of course, that is different from Finnish exports. This lack of impact assessments is quite interesting. The effects are always important, and the same is true of drugs: if the medicine works, it is more effective than the one that does not. Isn’t this a bit like swallowing a medicine, but you don’t really know what it’s going to do: I’m taking the medicine now, but I don’t know what it’s going to do. I feel a little dizzy. Let's say we get 2.1 billion. Reality can be smaller. If our contribution were 6.6 billion, assuming that no other country would fail to pay its share, it would be 4.5 billion, even in simple mathematics. Well, what would we get for this 4.5 billion if we took out a loan on the market? That's a lot. Finland has 77925 kilometres of road network. The renovation debt of the entire road network amounted to approximately EUR 1.5 billion in 2019. Fuel consumption increases significantly due to uneven road surfaces, coating damage and grooves, for example, as rolling resistance increases. The rolling resistance plays an important role in the consumption of heavy goods vehicles. The unevenness of coatings can increase fuel consumption by up to 10%. You should be fixed and refurbished for that, too. In transport, the road network is always part of the transport, because at both the beginning and the end the raw materials usually go along the roads and the distribution takes place along the roads. In the event of a crisis, the road network is also superior to the rail, air and water routes. Rail transport will not be able to replace rubber wheel traffic in the future either because it makes neither sense nor is it possible to build rails in all the necessary places. A comparison can be made of the length of the road network of 77925 km compared to the length of 5924 km of the network. In total, there are 480,000 kilometres of highways, highways, roads, roads and private roads in Finland. In other words, the money paid to southern Europe would help to restore the whole Finnish road network to a safe and more ecological environment. Well, would Finland's health care use EUR 4.5 billion? Health care is estimated to be short of 2 billion. Care workers do a tremendous amount of valuable and meaningful work. There is a shortage of skilled professionals in the field of social welfare and health. There have been huge numbers of professionals leaving the social and health sector for other tasks. Some have gone completely into other areas. We can talk about a mass escape soon. According to a survey of the Nursing Association, half the nurses have been thinking about changing the business. Before the corona, one-third thought about changing the industry. Almost half reported that they were exhausted and very exhausted. At the moment, nurses are exhausted because of the corona crisis, the long-standing flexibility. Studies show that the industry is leaving because of the burden of work and low wages. You can get the same money anywhere else with less effort. How many pairs of hands could we get to social welfare and health care for 4.5 billion? Additional hand pairs would have a significant impact on the attractiveness of the sector. I wish this government would:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u123	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u124	Mr President! The Coalition Party has publicly reversed its decision to abstain and, at least to a large extent, to support this poor recovery fund. In its explanatory statement, it has taken the statements in the report of the Committee on Finance. In these, the committee proposes that Parliament should, among other things, require the recovery instrument to be regarded as an exceptional and one-off solution. The arrangement does not serve as a precedent and Finland does not accept the repetition or transformation of the corresponding arrangement into a permanent one. In addition, Finland is required, among other things, to promote the introduction of the single European debt mechanism and the necessary rules, as well as compliance with the no bail-out principle of the Treaty. However, you can imagine how well those statements will bind future governments, let alone the EU, which can even interpret its Treaty in such a way that black becomes white. Yesterday it was announced how the European Commission's leading economic experts estimated that the European recovery package could become a more permanent approach if it succeeded. The Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Valdis Dombrovskis, and the Economic Commissioner, Mr Paolo Gentiloni, are looking forward to a permanent solution from the Recovery Fund, even though there have been tweets where the position has been somewhat ebbled. Similar ideas have already been put forward by the German Finance Minister and Vice Chancellor Olaf Scholz, the current President of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, and the former President of the ECB and the current Italian Prime Minister, Mario Draghi. According to the father of the package, the French President Emmanuel Macron, the recovery package is the most important thing that has happened to the Union since the creation of a common currency. If we look at these speeches, how credible are the assurances of our own government about the uniqueness and the one-off nature of the package? It is quite clear that economic crises come and go even after the interest rate. How credible is it that once a package has been decided, it or the like will not be used again? How will Finland be able to reject future packages if it is unable to block this package here and now? The same justification for solidarity, for caring for the economies of the Member States and for security policy dimensions will continue to be seen. Threats about a reputation disadvantage or loss of trust capital are nonsense. What good is it to Finland for a reputation that we agree to everything that is invented about the EU? For once, Finland would have the opportunity to be a bigger negotiator in the EU. Finland's participation in the negotiations conducted in a transparent and constructive manner in the EU has meant weaker conditions than, for example, the group that called for economic discipline in Sweden, Austria, Denmark and the Netherlands, which negotiated substantial membership credits for itself. Many other representatives have taken a stand on this. Among other things, Mrs Ranne had made good calculations. The Prime Minister of Finland, Sanna Marin, was deliberately excluded from the four sides of net contributors and negotiated the rule of law related to the recovery package. Originally an excellent result of the negotiations and the revival package, which has been acclaimed as a political victory in Finland, has even turned into a necessary evil in the mouth of European Minister Tytti Tuppurainen. The collapse of the next complete recovery package has been threatened by the collapse of the recovery package. Even the EU difference has been flashed in the wildest speech. However, this is not defined in EU rules, and why would the EU distinguish between a net contributor and a contributor to its activities? If the package were now brought down in Parliament, it would mean going back to the negotiating tables. Negotiation is certainly needed. We are completely lacking in a political debate on the nature of the EU and the direction in which it is going to be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u125	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u126	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Fox for your presence here in the debate. Your speech left me with the understanding that you too are perfectly aware of the risks involved in the adoption of this package. In fact, this is the tragedy that many of us are carrying: unfortunately, quite a few people in this Chamber know what this package means, but perhaps they are going to have to get their backs against the wall quite a bit. These consequences are very far-reaching. In fact, today I was wondering how long it would take for the defenders of the package to get older in this Chamber. What has now been mentioned in this debate is that the deepening integration of Europe and the new packages are already around the corner. It is true that all those who follow the situation know very well the situation in Italy and know very well what the Italian banks are the largest creditors there, and they also know the proportions, and this 750 billion will not be enough. And in this respect it is interesting to see how this matter will then be translated and explained to the Finnish citizens again. But I'm still coming back... In fact, I just received feedback from someone who had no knowledge of what the Treaty of Lisbon is, what kind of agreement Finland is involved in — an agreement that was concluded in 2009 and which is completely different from the Maastricht Treaty of 94, on which Finnish citizens were able to vote. Yes, I must say that we are in a very different Europe. But if I recall the year 94 — I was then 18 years old and I was able to vote in those elections for accession to the EU — then the extermination of the EU was very similar to what it is now all about the EU, as is the case with this package: not wanting to bring out the risks, the disadvantages. And then Tampere — the Pakkahuone — had such an EU information point for people who wanted to know the truth about the European Union. I remember going there too, and it was all good, and nothing negative came out. That conversation was very special back then. We did not have a debate on what the EU really is. Well, of course, there was a very different treaty to which we went then than what the Treaty of Lisbon has brought to this. But I think that there should be a debate in Finland about what kind of EU we want to be involved in, which is an EU that also benefits Finland. It is now beginning to seem that these solutions and policies are not in Finland's interest, in no way. Now, if we are going into this package and then we are going to go back to discussing this common unemployment security in June, we will certainly be going very quickly into a situation where, in order to finance this EU integration, we will have to reduce the social security and living standards of Finns, either by lowering social security or by raising taxes, in which case the final flood will go in the same direction. There has been a government report on the EU in Parliament, and there is no way to find what we are looking for in the EU, what our objectives are, what we want to be in the EU. There are also alternatives. There is always an alternative to deeper integration. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u127	Once again, I would like to remind you of the five-minute speech on the recommendation of the Council of Presidents. — Next, Mr Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u128	Mr President! This has already gone to the side of Thursday, the heavy and important thing that has been going through in this Chamber during Tuesday and Wednesday. But yesterday was indeed flagged to celebrate the Finnish day. In my view, Finnish, Finnish national identity, language and national identity are not sufficiently appreciated in Finland today. J. V. Snellman was a respected statesman who, among other things, promoted the position of Finnish. Here I am going to say in his honour a poem written by my talented assistant on the EU recovery package. If my speech goes beyond the recommended 5 minutes, I would most kindly ask that my speech not be interrupted by the President-in-Office. Knocking on a jerk would cut a poem pretty bad. ‘Mr President! Our prime minister left Finland like a rocket, /the birth-of-hearing resuscitation package. / There are friends, reputations, mammonhaki/ but forget about / All the tips and advice were ignored/when the negotiating table was set up. /Fire in Finland,the moment was shrugged,/there was news / But if the deal was good, why didn't it come to a deep discussion? / The EU is characterised by a deep,so deep silence,/a sense of character. / Where would you go to the point of not being represented? / When we did not discuss the package here as soon as the situation was in place, so to speak. / It was the summer, the fall came, the hunch creeps in the creepy /—we think we're in Brussels. / So where did they make a mistake, another mistake? / Well, at all, we're in the package. / It will change the current nature of the Union, as well as the future. / Continue to create a heavy debt load,/ when ‘Mr President! Right in the autumn, young people noticed it, /no package has been more than once. /And if we are staying in the Finnish / It is not a law of popular interest, but it is only / Onihanpurha actilt, if there is no pressure in / Jaennen everything, if you slip into the game rules,/should be sure of such distortions,/that even the game will not be handed down,/no rules will stretch the liability. / I ask everyone what the result is, when billions of dollars are blamed. / And when money to be used quickly,/what do you think,what does it look like? / There are many projects, but do they benefit only one,not another. / It is not intended to make you feel better, and it does not remain in a single package. “ ‘Mr President! So, please put my words in your mind, /in this case, you can't do it. /If we turn the EU rules around,/they are / Municipal donations arerequiredfor those who are not on / The name may change / Once the rules have been bended,/there is a new package with a pat on it. / So what is the next crisis in Europe, and why would Finland not say ‘yes’? / So I’m stillremembering,to the extent that we’re working for the people,/to defend Finland in these situations,/andto think about many ends,/are we representing a greater / Let's pour the package, sit on the table,/ yes, you'll find the compromise. / You must refuse/precedent your debt. / And to build a fair Europe with this report.’
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u129	Congressman Wihonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u130	Mr President! The question of the European Union’s recovery package is important for the history of our country. This Chamber and the media have been drumming about how important and important the adoption of the package is, otherwise we are said to be missing out in the EU and lose our reputation once and for all. The impression remains that if the package is rejected, Finland will cease to be a Western country, we will end up in a recession, our economy will collapse and all civilisation will disappear from the northern part of the country — doubting it. The aid package was brought up on the pretext of a corona, even though the problems of countries with financial difficulties go back years, even decades. And, contrary to what has been said in support of the aid package, these countries are not important target countries for Finland's exports and the future of Finland's exports is not dependent on the package. It is claimed that the aid package is one-off. However, this is not the case. France and Italy, for example, have already become openly aware of plans for new, wider recovery packages and common bonds. The adoption of the aid package in the European Union is a step-by-step move towards federal development, one budget and a Europe-wide tax collection. The purpose of the European Union has been a trading community, but it has become a huge bureaucratic monster. The Brussels posts attract politicians and officials, and the interests of their own country are ready to end in their own interests. For Finns, Finland and the citizens have the primary interest. Tax money collected from Finnish residents and national assets should be used primarily for the benefit of their own people and the country. We are now opening up endless debt gates and more of our own sovereignty is being handed over to Brussels. Everyone understands the further the centralisation of decision-making, the less influence the regions have. If it is difficult to make the voice of the peripheral regions of Finland belong even here in Helsinki, how hard is it to make the voice belong to Brussels? The overthrow of the aid package is said to cause Finland a lasting disadvantage in its reputation. So do we have to take decisions against our own interests just because no one is upset? It sounds more like a school drama for middle-schoolers than it does for the government. The question is what is the reputation of Finland, which we want to preserve. At the moment it seems that Finland's reputation is that we can present anything to us and accept everything. The aid package is also justified by the obligation, as as a rich country it is Finland’s duty to help other Member States. In other words, a state of just over 5 million citizens must take care of the issue of countries that are many times larger. Is there any sense of proportionality? Is Finland really so rich that it is up to it to support large countries such as Italy and Spain? What is the richness of the fact that factories are being driven down here because of excessive costs, but the debt money supports the creation of new factories in Spain? Every year, billions are collected from Finnish motorists, of which only ropos are used to maintain a crumbling road network, but there is a willingness to take a large amount of debt so that the countries of southern Europe will spend everyone on what. If we want to revive, why not revive the country? You take your debt without thinking about tomorrow. The reductions in this first aid package will be paid up to 2058. The adoption of this first aid package will not only oblige the government, the next government or the next one, but also the generations after us. And how far will debt imprisonment increase when the second, third and fourth packages arrive? Neither Finland nor the EU will fall even if the package is rejected. The day will come tomorrow, and there will be friends in the West in the future. A reputation may suffer a blow, but it would rather be a dent in a reputation than a loss of independence. I intend to continue to be on the side of Finland's independence and to act in the interests of the Finnish people,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u131	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u132	Madam President! Good morning! Happy Helatorstai, this annual Christian holiday celebrated on the 40th of Easter in remembrance of our Savior’s ascension to heaven! There is a stimulus package in the debate. The Latvian Vice-President of the European Commission reported that he said: ‘The better we are able to use this instrument, the more we have the chance to discuss the use of a permanent and similar financial instrument. “ This is not the first opinion on permanence, including from France and other European countries. I understand this beautiful idea behind the European aid package, but I do not believe in this one-off – hopefully I am wrong. This EUR 750 billion is insufficient to revive the European economy. Mr President! This is a matter of principle for me, and this forthcoming vote will be one of the biggest in Finland's independence and will have a strong influence on the development of the EU. I, and certainly none of us, want a debt union or a federal state. I want a partnership and a partnership. Finland joined such a member in the 1990s. We would rather stick to it and stick to the fact that the European Union will continue to be the Union of Independent States. This recovery package is, in many ways, a transfer of income between the north and the south and between the poor and the rich. Money will go to creditors and multinational corporations. This doesn't seem very fair either. If only private creditors had been involved — and this would have been possible if the EU had exercised its authority, but not: nation states are forced into the Union's common debt, but private creditors are not involved. In practice: pay the poor to let the rich keep their money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u137	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u138	Madam President! In addition to having a diamond parliamentary group and a group office here in Parliament, we have a top group in the municipal councils and members. I get a lot of messages from there and a lot to learn from there. There'll be dozens of e-mails a day. Here's one of them I want to read here now. Aarne Raevaara, a City Councillor from Tampere, hoped that I would read this column she wrote here in Parliament. Now I'm gonna do it, because there's a lot of teaching here. Often, what happens in municipalities, or at least in larger cities, also happens here at the end of Parliament — much the same people are deciding. In other words, ‘the Tampere model has moved to the national level. More debt and tax increases. Projects are justified by images. The decision-making power is being shifted further and further away from the payers. Savings will be cut from important services.’ ‘The President of the SannaMarin Council at the The same thing goes on when he's prime minister. Finland will have more responsibilities and costs of the EU Recovery Fund than we paid for war compensation between 1944 and 1952.” ‘The recovery fund infringes agreements and the rule The EU Treaty prohibits the financing of the Union's activities with a debt and solidarity with Member States' debts. The arrangement now agreed is not temporary. It is initially valid until the end of the 1950s. By then, the needs of the new funds will continue to emerge within the framework of the EU. The next time the Treaty rules on debt and aid have been passed, it can be said that it has become a habit.’ “In the wake of the new ones, the It is not possible to increase the tax burden by 10-15% without a strong cut in current taxes. At the end of the road is the end of the current welfare state of Finland.” ‘There was no victory that Finland had negotiated a few additional grants. Sweden, Denmark, Austria and the Netherlands were able to negotiate a reduction of EUR 4 billion, Finland’s annual contributions increased by 100 million.” ‘I think that Prime Minister Marinyl has the The project as a whole runs counter to Finland’s national interests.” ‘The Marin Negotiated Recovery Fund aims at a significant change in the After an in-depth public debate, there must be a referendum. Aarne Raevaara, City Councillor.’ Well, we know what happened to that citizens' initiative on the referendum, which is already bad. Mr President! I would like to add to this text by Mr Aarne that it seems that Prime Minister Marin has been stuck in these loans for 30 to 40 years. As Aarne wrote here, first Marin was involved in the debt-taking of Tampere with an absurdly expensive R & D project, and now he owes Finland with this recovery package. Clearly, the economic doctrine of social democrats is based on reckless debt and the subsequent increase in taxes both in the municipalities and in the state. To conclude, I would say that thousands, tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of people will be watching these videos when they set out on social media, so that you can send your own opinions here, at least to the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, and we will take them seriously and read them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u139	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u140	Mr President! Abraham Lincoln said that all people can be fooled for a while, some people can be fooled all the time, but not all people can be fooled all the time. Government ministers have praised the fact that we have a top deal in borrowing EUR 6.6 billion and donating it abroad. The intellectual arguments have been nothing. Ministers invented various childish stories that Italy, for example, buys industrial export products from Finland with the money it receives, and thus Finland becomes rich. The government has tried to mislead the people on this issue at any time. At first, they reiterated that Europe must do a coordinated recovery together, while at the same time suggesting that it would not be possible to do so together without starting a common debt and transfers. No matter how many times a false claim like that says, it doesn't turn out to be true. Now federal parliamentarians are saying that it is a question of EU unity, and if the EU calls for economic discipline and justice for small nations, it is playing into the Russian bag. Politics is sometimes a game of words, trickery tries to hide and manipulate the truth to the people. When ministers finally discovered that people began to see through their fictional explanations, they simply exchanged explanations. Now it was only a question of EU unity: it was feared in Russia, and the European Minister even came up with the idea that if the EU recovery package was not adopted, we would go towards the 30th century, Germany in the 30th century, towards national socialism. So the Nazi card and the Russian card have been used. No argument has been left unused, no matter how bad it may be. Mr President! It has now turned out that the representatives of the government parties speak differently and do something else. They speak beautifully of Finland's independence and at the same time donate our country away without a shot.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u143	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u144	Madam President! Very good morning for me, too. I woke up on this new day of battle just now. There is indeed an EU recovery package on the table, in which, frankly, Finnish money is being plundered by other countries that have not managed their economies well. This is a fight for Finland, but it is also a fight for Finnish money. Indeed, according to the EU recovery package plan, huge amounts of Finnish money are running south, and these are quite halting figures that I was digging for. Many may not know how much money is actually going on for Finns, and now, next time, how much money is going on the basis of the Commission's proposal for the largest beneficiaries of grants between 2021 and 2023. These are cold numbers. Let's leave Estonia, our beloved neighbor. They would be leaving 1 billion, which is about 10% of the government's 2020 budget. Next, the age-old Kankkula well, the perpetual money-worshiper Greece, to which Finland has already been granting three support packages in the past. Greece would be leaving EUR 16 billion, which represents around 18% of the State budget for 2020. Well then, Poland, which has long been a net recipient in the EU, a year after the year. A further EUR 23 billion is going to Poland, which represents 10% of the State budget for 2020. France, for its part, would be receiving EUR 37 billion, which is about 3% of the country’s 2020 budget. The Spanish figure is, quite frankly, shocking, Mr President. Under normal circumstances, it corresponds to Finland’s total annual budget of EUR 59 billion and represents 11 per cent of the central government budget for 2020. And lastly, the largest, Italy — the country with the third largest gold reserves in the world reserved for a bad day. They do not have to use them, because they know that Finns, for example, are ready to pay for their filth, as long as they realize to ask. On the basis of the Commission proposal, a total of EUR 65 billion is now leaving the package for Italy for 2021-2023, which represents 7% of the State budget for 2020. It is incomprehensible that we belong to a good brother club like this, in which we can deal with other people in this way, provided that, as a majority, we put pressure on and put on well-managed countries. This is not fair in any way, and every time a country that has done well in its economy wants to say that now is the time to put its own economy in order, then start using the card on these EU negotiating tables to put pressure on it and say that you cannot resist it, that you do not want to be those difficult countries, that you are forced to agree to this or that you lose your reputation. For example, earlier today, when Prime Minister Marin was here on the ground, I asked him very bluntly and asked him for a concrete answer as to when all of us Members of Parliament will receive the memo explaining how we Finns have been threatened by the EU by a loss of reputation. However, unfortunately, once again, as we have witnessed several times, Prime Minister Marin avoided this question and merely replied that he did not know who had had such a debate and did not answer that question in any way. [The President knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u145	Again, I would like to remind you of the five-minute recommendation from the Council of Presidents. As has now been seen here in the last few hours, many and several speakers will be speaking here, and the next few hours will have the opportunity to speak again, so please try to stick to this recommendation. — Next, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u146	Thank you, Your Honor! First of all, I would like to go back to what Mr Tynkkynen said in his previous speech, how big these country-specific contributions, the GDP shares, are in this recovery package. It is quite clear that, in such an economic policy measure, at least three rules must be implemented: it must be the right size, above all the timing must be the right one, and it must be geared towards the right point. In fact, this speech by Mr Tynkkysen halted the fact that, for some countries, we are actually putting gas in flames, i.e. overheating, apparently even on purpose, in these countries, and it will cause more problems in these countries in a few years' time. But in this speech I wanted to focus on how this recovery package actually changes the nature of the Union as a whole. After all, we have been in such a debt union situation since the first packages of aid. From 2011 to 2012, a temporary support mechanism was established and then a permanent one, and now we are moving towards a fiscal union in which the EU really has its own income and then its own fiscal capacity, and then the EU also has a common borrowing policy, and the expenditure was already in place. The EU's own income: In the past, there has been a country-by-country charge based on VAT and GDP, which favours non-developed countries because it is a slightly weaker statistical method in these countries. After all, we are completely lacking in a civil debate on the direction of the EU and how this fiscal union actually changes the nature of the EU. In practice, this will be a weak federal state, and then, on a permanent basis, we will probably have to support these weaker countries, which will always be in trouble. From the fiscal union: there is practically no return from it; it is debt imprisonment. We have now seen the cost of this package, 210 million additional contributions to Finland up to 2058, except, of course, if these increased contributions are covered by some new sources of income in the EU. This is where the plastic fee is presented. It is apparently advantageous to Finland at the moment. What it's going to be, we don't really know. On the one hand, other countries, most of them, applied for relief and, on the other hand, they did. I think Finland was among the two or three countries that did not seek any relief. The forthcoming carbon customs mechanism is likely to be acceptable in some way, but the content will not be clear until June when the proposal is possibly submitted, so it will be more difficult to comment on it. Expansion of emissions trading will be the question of what the price tag for its expansion of emissions trading really is for our chimney industry, and then how the EU intends, among other things, to use forests as carbon sinks, to calculate them and to tie them up. This is a very interesting development. It has also been said in this Chamber that these digital giants are being put on the payroll, that they are being paid by the EU for the digital presence or that they are operating within the EU. In practice, this content production is generated within the EU, but the proceeds then go outside. This kind of payment will then lead to all these digital companies, which would be born in the EU, automatically looking at the location outside the EU. It automatically takes up all the additional income if we do not go to the OECD preparation and then it becomes global. Well, we'll see about this. Anyway
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u147	Congressman Wihonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u148	Mr President! The aid package is not about solidarity, the corona crisis or the green transition. The adoption of the aid package means moving towards a development that is no longer possible to retreat from. The adoption of the aid package means moving towards a new generation of European Union, and no one has any answers to what it means. It is clear that Finland must be part of the Western and free democracies. Already because of its geopolitical position, Finland has played a challenging role as part of a major power policy in its history, and we have had to struggle for our existence as a battlefield of foreign powers. In the great picture of world history, the time for our independence is very short. Since the fate of World War II, Finland has had to create through the Cold War and now as part of the European Union. The European Union has been sought to provide security for a small country. However, there have been many problems. As a net contributor, Finland has already been involved in many of the economic crises in the euro area. In the past, a great deal has come back from Brussels in the back pocket, but later it has been discovered that the payment was made and the new aid package does not seem to differ from the previous one. Finland and Europe need a recovery from the corona. There are a wide range of structural problems across Europe and it is not possible to continue in the same way. However, the solution is not to make problems and debts common. The solution cannot be that Finland is still in debt in order to support countries that have failed to manage their economies. The aid package obliges Finland for decades to come. Debt and interest will be paid until 2058. Of course, it is just this one package. All the signs indicate there's more coming. There is still no precise information on the level of interest rates, so the aid package is being adopted without any information on the actual costs. Experts estimate that interest rates on the common debt may rise above what Finland itself would pay for a debt taken in our own name. The adoption of the aid package opens the way for new recovery packages, the size of which can only be guessed. And now we're about to commit to decades. The gate is open to closer economic integration and common debts. The next recovery package probably does not even need to be discussed in the Finnish Parliament; the decision-making power has been transferred elsewhere. The payers will remain the same — still the payers are ordinary Finnish taxpayers and companies. Tax resources shall be used to maintain Parliament and the Union's official machinery. It seems that when we talk about large numbers and lines, the ultimate purpose of Parliament and the Union is to represent the people and act in their interests: to create security, jobs and conditions for a good life. Finnish representatives represent the Finnish people and their interests. If the power of decision is transferred away from the Nordic Region, the opportunities for influence will also be reduced. Officials of the European Union do not care whether a battery factory is established in Spain or in Finland. No one is in the best interests of Finland but Finland itself. Although there is a trend towards federalism and economic integration, it is childish to assume that large countries would stop thinking about their own interests. It would be precisely federal development that would benefit large countries such as France, Germany and Italy. They would gain even greater influence on the affairs of other Member States, and then the economic problems of the Member States would be offset by the northern paying agents. The directions of the future European Union are very unclear. There is a willingness to promote common bonds and economic integration without a clear direction, for example in the area of security policy. In the speech, the fall of the aid package has been intimidated to lead to an increase in the influences of the major powers on the continent. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u149	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u150	Mr President! I am glad that this package has now finally been discussed here in Parliament's plenary session, as it should be, for a long time and a long time, and with a great deal of reflection and reflection on its many aspects. Despite all the praiseworthy speeches, I still believe that the package is no more than to the detriment of Finland or the European Union. I don't care if this package is critical or positive for the EU, it's not good for either side, it's doing incalculable damage. On this point, I should like to thank Mr Ketttu, the representative of the centre, who has also spoken well just now. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. The debate has been good, but it will not help too late. This should have happened last spring when all the signs of the nature of the package were already in the air. These statements in the report should have been clear in everyone's mind, especially at ministerial level before the negotiations took place. After all, they are now repeating the long-term principles of Finland as a member of the Union, such as the no bail-out rule, which should have been used with all reason in last summer's negotiations as well. It was unfortunate that ministers did not agree to suspend their summer holidays last July, so that we could have a debate on the EU recovery package. But, as has been said, we are now having a debate. Above all, Finland's EU policy seems to be that milk falls, and all our so-called trust capital goes to waste time and time again. As Finland, we should definitely strengthen our national goal in the Union and take it forward on all fronts. For example, Finnish forests are even thought of in different ways among our own European parliamentarians. Some of them feel that our forests are a common property of the European Union which can be used as a carbon sink for the whole of the Union. This cannot be the case, ladies and gentlemen, but every EU country must take care of its own carbon sinks and compensatory measures. Yes, it must be that we ourselves control our forests and their use. The protection also threatens an important Finnish rounding and hunting culture alongside the forest industry. It's shocking. The understanding of our affairs in Brussels is very thin. I am also surprised that there could be no referendum on an issue of such importance, which is so much discussed here in Parliament by us parliamentarians. After all, referendums in Finland are very rare: the most recent referendum was held in 1994 on EU membership. At the time, the people were led to believe that the euro would also be the subject of a referendum, but the public consultation was ignored. I have been thinking about the fact that referendums in our country should be treated much more favourably than they are today. If such a great, unforeseeable thing comes before us in the middle of the parliamentary term, then the referendum should even be viewed with great goodwill. There was no information about this package before the Parliamentary elections in 2019, and until now Finland’s position has been absolute ‘no’ for co-operation. If the package had been known before the elections, I would venture to suspect that it would also have had an impact on the outcome of the parliamentary elections — and, of course, it would be a concession to say that no one could anticipate the corona crisis and that it came as a surprise to us all, unfortunately, but instead how the crisis is being handled and what instruments we can use to deal with Europe and the Union, ladies and gentlemen. There are many points in favour of the referendum: the referendum will involve the people, encourage citizens to get to know and study the subject, increase citizens' influence and probably interest in politics and the conduct of common affairs. So here in Parliament, too, we should be able to swallow our dignity and ask the people for their opinion when the situation demands it. In my view, in this situation, the opinion of the people should have been asked. This message is for all my fellow Members: do not be afraid of the opinion of the public, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u151	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this night's sitting too! [First Vice-President TarjaFilatov : Likewise, thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u155	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u156	Madam Speaker! The introduction of income transfers to countries that are worse off than us and the taking of joint debt are historic changes to Finland's national sovereignty. The democratic concept of social democracy is reflected in the wedge-eyed drive through this package in our home country. The Finnish people have not accepted the establishment of an EU Union for Income Transfers in any elections. The start-up of transfers had not even been presented before the parliamentary elections, but instead all parties had publicly promised that Finland would no longer support the euro countries that had managed their economies badly. In the past, it was wondered why Finland commits itself as guarantor to the debts of Greece and other southern countries, even though they are never able to repay. It never occurred to anyone then that in 2021 we are already giving money directly across Europe. The historic decision lies in the centre because it has the second largest government party in power to overthrow the EU's transfer union and joint debt and thus has the power to save Finland. In the past, the centre was strongly opposed in public to the EU's common borrowing. For example, in the spring of April 8, 1920, when the President of the Centre and Minister of Finance Katri Kulmuni said: ‘We need joint coordinated actions,but there are framework conditions. Finland is not committed to and will not accept a common debt. And each country is responsible for economic policy itself and independently.” Not long after this, Prime Minister Sanna Marin left in the summer to negotiate a joint EU debt-taking and a joint recovery in response to the corona crisis. It was supposed to be a show for the Prime Minister. In the end, the Prime Minister accepted, without even joining the better conditions for the countries that have been consulted, that Finland will take up EUR 6.6 billion in debt and then donate it to the EU for distribution and then expect the EU to allocate some crumbs falling from the table to Finland in return. The ministers knew that the solution was a disaster, and the Constitutional Committee had already denied that Finland's commitment, contrary to the Constitution, should not contribute to collective debt and solidarity. Unfortunately, the situation in our country is such that it appears that we are even voting on the interpretation of the constitutions on a political basis. So the Socialist Government is pushing its own agendas without hesitation and will not stop until our country is impoverished in the name of climate change and the population is changed according to the ideals of multiculturalism. I still wonder that when Minister Sanna Marin made a promise to give our money to other EU countries, she did not ask very much about it from downtown, but it seemed to have come as a surprise to the representatives of the city centre. Well, since then, downtowners have given up their spines one after the other and have submitted to the social democrats' solution to start making donations in the EU with a common debt. This is how strongly the Green Left has subjugated the city centre and turned it into an auxiliary party. Mr President! The starting point for EU transfers was initially to bribe Italy and its mafia so that they would not drive Italy out of the EU. By donating money, Italy would be pleased to be a Member State, as would the countries of Eastern Europe. On the other hand, France and Germany want to prevent Italy from falling into the euro crisis and insolvency, because their own banks have so much to gain from Italy. However, the end result is that the federalists in Brussels will gain more power. [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u157	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u158	Madam President! As I said in my previous speech, I am surprised that I have heard many times in this Chamber, especially from the left side, that all experts would agree on this recovery package. However, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we have heard very different opinions on this, and I can say that not all experts agree that this is good for Finland – in fact, quite a few experts have been critical. For the general public, the expert opinions can be found on the Parliament's website once the matter has been dealt with. You can go there and read what the experts actually said. Here in the Chamber, it is often colored by what the experts said, or another option is that some of the representatives do not understand what they said. That is why I thought that I would now and in the future start to read these expert opinions here in connection with the debate on this subject, so that every citizen can then think about what those experts actually said and what part is then coloured here. After all, they feed willow rope without blinking, especially in such big things as this recovery package. Many politicians and parties have their own cow in the ditch, so to speak. The EU is such an institution that it easily corrupts the mind and then part of it begins to serve. But there are good experts in Finland who can be trusted, that they are neutral and that they are neutral about these things through science, through the facts of economics, and then I thought about reading these statements here. This is Chief Economist, Docent Thomas Malise's statement. There's this five-minute deadline, and then I always stop at five minutes, and then I go on, I'll take a new... [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : The deadline is agreed by the Council of Presidents. [Sebastian Tynkynen: That's his justy!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u161	Okay. — Mr Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u162	Madam President! Now, in the next parliamentary elections, each voter: There is an opportunity in the constituency of Oulu to vote in favour of a candidate who is ready to fight for the Finns even after getting to Arkadianmäki. A lot of people come here with big talk, but it's only the actions that make the difference. In the last parliamentary elections in 2019, Thomas Kettunen from Kuhmo was left with 4331 votes. During the past period, he got into parliament from a thief and had the opportunity to be worthy of his votes. When the Finnish money was being put in place for more than 4 billion dollars for those countries in the South who were irresponsible about their economies and when we were being taken into a new Europe in violation of the Treaties, Mr Kettunen gave an excellent speech against the recovery package, which included:... What then happened on the day of the vote on the recovery package: Did Mr Kettunen vote ‘no’ in his own action to clear the package through the historic Do you think she The correct answer is:... In these next elections, you will have the opportunity to select a representative who will not betray his constituents and stand behind the Finns. It may be that I will have to return to this speech in a few years' time, but hopefully Mr Kettunen will understand how to vote with the Finns in accordance with his words against the EU recovery package. This historic situation will not be obscured by voters. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u163	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u164	Honorable Speaker! In my previous speeches, I have addressed the theme of how the EU is moving towards a fiscal union in this package, and I am thinking of dealing with the same theme now. Indeed, when we know what kind of income the EU currently has, those own sources of income are VAT-based and GDP-based contributions, and many Finns do not know that when we buy something in stores or kiosks, a small proportion of that VAT goes to the EU as well. Well, in itself, this procedure, and then the source of EU revenue based on this GDP share, favours less developed countries, because statistics are considerably worse. How much of the EU's own revenue could be increased if these accounting and statistical methods were developed? In itself, it may be able to cover the costs of this recovery package. Well, then on these new sources of EU revenue, which have been on the table: They all have their own impact on Finland's competitiveness, employment, and the state also loses potential income. These should be analysed very carefully before we go anywhere. And these new sources of income in the EU effectively reduce Finland's budgetary powers in terms of the CCTB, i.e. the level of remuneration paid to them in each Member State in terms of material assets, balance sheet, sales, staff. So this method of calculation would in future apply to companies with a turnover of over 650 million. Possibly dropped somewhere, some 200 million have been talked about. Well, now, in this formula, as we have just seen, there are no intangible rights at all. For Finland, that is the central question. When the intangible rights to this formula, the division formula, have not been taken into account, then all the results I have seen have been harmful to Finland, that is, in reality Finland would lose, the state would lose, here will lose revenue, and it will, of course, weaken our budgetary powers, because we will not be able to share it here. In all these new sources of income in the EU, when considering them, there should be an absolute unanimity requirement. We should hold on to that. You can't touch it. This has also been proposed. Well, we see that these new revenues are constantly being reduced: the plastic fee is now automatically included in this package. In itself, it is slightly advantageous to Finland — we do not know for how long — but in fact all of this,however, undermines the Member States’ ownresults which could have been self-recoverable and used in their own country. These are now for the benefit of the EU. Now, the extension of emissions trading to shipping, air transport and its possible introduction on 1 January 2023: This proposal should come in June. Now that we are thinking of the strange dilemma that this extension of emissions trading will also contribute to the cost of the recovery package and the recovery package has been said that there should be an export-friendly effect here, in fact, the extension of emissions trading to shipping is a question for Finland of 500 million. Now that several models have been on the table, that emissions trading is limited within the EU, it would like to say very bad things to all of us ports, that shipping would go to a port outside the EU and then bring the cargo to Finland by road. Then again, if we go to the extension of this between the EU and third countries, it will have the biggest cost implications for Finland. And then, when we are all aware that the price of allowances has been rising significantly over the last six months — it has been on level five for a long time between 2013 and 2018, then for a few years the price of allowances has risen, and since last autumn it has risen and is currently at a rate of four-to-five-tenths — the impact of this cost on the Finnish industry,the expansion of this emissions trade in shipping can be significant,and we do not really have science in the future,but all these measures proposed as new EU revenues,reform the direction of the Union of fiscals,and there will be no return.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u165	Congressman Vihonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u166	Mr President! The recovery package is being run under the guise of a corona, although it has long been driven by problems in managing the economy of the largest recipients of the package. The purpose of the package is to stabilise the European Union's troubled countries by wiping out debt money for those who already have debt problems. Last year, when the aid package was launched, solidarity was demanded with the countries affected by the corona. One year forward, and we are talking about a new generation of Europe, common bonds and common taxes. The steps set out in the aid package are clear: the aim is to intensify the management of the European economy in the direction of a federal state. On the other hand, there is nothing wrong with this development. Finland is said to be closely involved in the decision-making table, a strong part of Europe. Finland is said to receive significant security guarantees and to be a bigger decision-maker than its size. The reality is very different: Indeed, Finland is larger in size, not the decision-maker, but the payer. Italy, for example, is the third largest economy in the euro area but is one of the main beneficiaries of the package. It is claimed that the aid package will increase Finland's exports and thus generate revenue outside the package. However, the main benefits of the recovery instrument are not important export partners for Finland. Finland's exports are directed at the rich countries of the EU and not at the southern Member States benefiting from the package. As demand increases in the south, it also decreases in the north, reducing the demand for Finnish export products. Recovery funds have been designed to support the Spanish paper and pulp industry. It is very difficult to understand why this would be beneficial for Finnish exports. At the same time as factories are being driven down in our country and thousands of people are being unemployed, there is an enormous amount of support for loans in order to set up factories in southern Europe. This is the green move? Contrary to what is suggested in other speeches, the purpose of the Finns is not to separate Finland from the West or to fraternize with others. The Finns themselves are critical of the fact that the European Union itself has gone into breach of its own most important regulations. Under the pretext of the interest-rate crisis and the recovery package, the nature and functioning of the Union are insidiously changing. It is not a one-off package of aid that is at issue, but through the adoption of the package, the gates will be opened for new recoverys and common debts. Criticism of the aid package is claimed to ruin Finland's reputation. Apparently, Finland’s reputation should be a silent councilman who acts against his own interests. In the past, Finland has been regarded as part of a tight line with the northern Member States, but it became clear in the negotiations on the aid package that this is no longer the case: we do not want to be difficult, but let the big countries dictate what is being done, and let us settle for our role as a net contributor, so that we do not just lose our reputation. If even now Finland cannot even pursue its own interests in the aid package negotiations, how can anyone believe that Finland will gain its own advantage in an even closer union, let alone in a federal state? In Europe, there is no understanding of the lives of people living in remote areas, nor of forest management, nor of the strict management of the economy. Finland will be left with the role of the payer and silent acceptance. The hand is pressed into the fist, but everything is agreed, as is often the case in our history. However, our current government has already shown that it is adopting a new generation of European Union policies, at least in terms of debt. You take more debt to pay the debt, you just stare at the income side, and you admire when money comes. Even the idea is not given to interest rates, to who will have to pay them in the future, but the debt will eventually be paid in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u167	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u168	Mr President! In my speech I will return to history and to 1994 because this whole debate on the recovery package is so much like the debate that took place at the time. The spirit and arguments are very much alike. The critical voices were suppressed by appealing to the unity of the EU, it was assured that, in a tight place, Finland's interests are the lines of the Maastricht Treaty in which ratification is needed for each nation state, i.e. a decision confirming the outcome of the negotiations. This is precisely the moment, ladies and gentlemen, that is the opportunity left for us to be some sort of straw. But no, it is a missed opportunity, because obviously the government does not have the courage to admit that the package was a wolf when it was born, and the government does not have the courage to represent a larger Finland in the European Union as a whole. In 1994, a heated debate took place in Finland on how, when and what questions should be put to the EU referendum. Finland had already made a prior commitment to the Maastricht Treaty at the mouth of President Koivisto, among other things, and the image of Finnish rural areas being saved by the EU was passed on to the public. Unfortunately, the Central Party was tricked into this, for one reason or another. In fact, even then, the national agricultural aid package solution was strangely linked to the referendum as one of its motives. People want to be fooled with all kinds of vispa scones. After all, the recovery package is now linked to the EU's Multiannual Financial Framework with vis-à-vis vis-à-vis the EU budget, although it could and should have been separated from it from the rest of the EU budget and considered to be a separate issue from the outset. After all, there has been a number of scares about how exiting the recovery package would also destroy the negotiated multiannual financial framework. Nevertheless, why not return to the negotiating table? Mr President! In 1994, the Parliament was concerned about how the Finnish economy would be able to qualify for EMU after the recession. As I am sure everyone in this Chamber knows, in the 1990s, historical adjustments had to be made in Finland, the effects of which are still being corrected. Frustrated speeches were made in Parliament on why there was hardly any parliamentary debate on EMU membership and its importance, that is to say the loss of its own currency, not to mention the civil debate. There should now be similar, even painful, economic reforms in southern Europe in order to make the countries eligible for the euro. But they will not do so if the Union's agreements can be circumvented without doing so and the gift money will be paid into the account. If anyone should do everything in their power to defend the common rules, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, these treaties are the only security of a small net contributor state in a giant federal project. It is therefore rather surprising that, despite all their criticisms of the euro and the EU, it is the Finns of Peru who, in this Chamber, are almost the only ones who stress the rule-based nature of the EU and its compliance with the rules. We see that this is the federal route on which we, as Finland, will step if this recovery package is adopted. After all, this has long been the EU's objective, even at the time of 1994 this was advocated and analysed in depth by those then, mainly the opposition's representatives, who were able to predict the course of development. Some of the then MPs did not even know that, when Finland joined the European Union, Finland would also automatically join the EU's monetary and economic union. It therefore wonders — now that it is clear to all Members of Parliament what it means to vote in favour of the recovery package — why we want to adopt the package and why we want to take the EU towards a federal state, why we want to give up our sovereignty. For some of us, of course, it is all right, but I would like to ask myself whether these Members of Parliament are trying to repeat to themselves that this is not the way it is, or whether they are playing with the hope that the political memory of the voters will be short. It doesn't make sense, and it's not right.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u169	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u170	Mr President! The Finns of Finland invite the entire Finnish people together to defend justice, independence and our own democracy. Independent Finland is at a crossroads: are we prepared to submit to the will of Germany and France, which are apparently sovereignly leading the EU after the British have left? The freedom and independence that Finland has achieved today are too obvious. We have achieved the existence of our small nation through common sacrifices. We have achieved our independence and our freedom to decide our own affairs in our own country. For the population of the wartime, that sacrifice was absolutely bloody and costly. In the EU, Finland has not had a strategy. We're in the Union as a chip on a loan. This puts Finland at risk as a stable welfare state once and for all, because when decisions are made in Berlin and Paris, you can say that there is no interest in Finland's interests. The speeches on the EU's common interest have remained speeches. Our industry is suffering in the euro currency and we are in debt because of the reckless economy in other countries. Mr President! Belonging to Europe is self-evident to the Finns of Finland. We are the most pro-European party in Finland, because to us all the peoples of Europe, even the small peoples, are neighbours and friends. We want to allow the characteristics of the nations and maintain their independence. It is tragic that we are trying to force everything into one EU fashion under the central committee system, which is dominated by Germany and France. The Finns of Finland are primarily for Finland and defenders of Finland's national interests, because small nations can only survive in tough competition by controlling their own interests. It is shocking that, over the decades, a flock of Brussels footmen has emerged in this Parliament. Here, this pack of footmen will jump into a well if the Commission so tells. The EU has become a new country for some of our decision-makers. At the same time as the bread lines are growing in the country, our state leaders are in Brussels eating caviar and drinking champagne, and then they come back to the country in a very flattering manner, that they were treated so well there in the EU that we are certainly very important decision-makers and we are appreciated. These Brussels footmen are useful fools. Mr President! When more power is transferred from moment to moment to Brussels, only the role of the EU rubber stamp will remain with Parliament. We must not give up the sovereignty of our country and the freedom of our nation on light and false grounds. When Britain resigned from the EU, the federalists swore that no other country would be allowed to leave. Italy threatened and, as a result, was promised so much money that membership of the EU would certainly be worth it. The aim was, of course, to secure the claims of the French and German banks. As such, this new co-debt of enormous size is intended to guarantee that the new Brexit will no longer take place. No EU country, like the British, could leave the Union, or else it could be threatened with a huge debt being realised. The Government’s claims that, in the event of Italy’s insolvency, for example, the combined debt would be precise are like a line drawn in water. [The President : 5 minutes! ] Mr President! The last few days have shown that the Green Left can no longer mislead the people. False claims that joint debtorship and the sending of money abroad are in the interests of Finns have been shown to be completely untrue. The childish argument that the package is a one-off package is nothing more than words. After all, the last day before, the EU Commission again announced that a permanent model for the recovery package would be envisaged. Now the package has been sold in the name of the corona, although it has very little to do with the corona epidemic itself. They are mainly bound by their position at the same time. Of course, the next package will be given a new name with which to sell it. Even with interest, you can't sell forever. But the result is the same: Finland will be forced to control the debt trap by the EU and pay the debts of countries such as Italy. The government has suggested with poker faces to the Finnish people that the next set of joint debt and transfers will no longer be accepted that you accept the violation of the EU Treaties only once. The Social Democrats, the Centre and the other Green Left or the Coalition Party, when are you going to take up the fight against co-financing and the Union for transfers, if not now?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u171	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u172	Madam President! I'll pick up where I left off in my last speech. So I'm presenting the expert opinion of Docent Tuomas Malinen on the recovery fund. ‘Introduction. The history of monetary union shows that the single currency has repeatedly been exposed to the blinds of monetary policy, competitiveness and production. These blind ones are, for example, those faced by a country. the economic crisis, such as in Greece 2010, or the whole region; ‘The specific features of the currency area are due to the fact that it is then In many ways the Member States are different financially. The single currency wants to weaken the already weak Member States. The euro area has not led to convergence in the economies of the Member States, i.e. convergence, but on the contrary, the differences have increased. This, too, is not a new phenomenon in the history of monetary union.” ‘The single currency and the depreciation of the foreign exchange rate, whose In other words, some countries in the single currency region suffer more than others, whether they are affected by shock or by monetary union as a whole. The attack caused by the corona virus is no exception.’ ‘Own currency exchange rate function. The single currency will remove the central balancing mechanism between countries: its own exchange rate. Its task shall be to: 1) Equalise differences in competitiveness between countries. 2) Restrict the State 3) Flexible according to the needs of the country’s economy.” ‘Because the exchange rate reflects the economic situation of the country, the Differences in competitiveness arise, for example, from high or low wage increases, differences in productivity growth in countries, or factors dependent on regulation, working culture or other economic structures. It will take a very long time for them to harmonise between countries, and it may never happen.” ‘In addition, the fall in externalcurrency often restricts the will of the If the external value of the currency falls ‘However, the main role of the national currency If a country specialising in exports, such as Finland, meets e.g. global demand for the global recession or its exports is falling for some other reason, the exchange rate is generally yielding downwards, making the country's products cheaper on the international market. This will improve the price competitiveness of the country’s products.” “For example,markandevaluationsandrecoveryfollowedbythesurveillance brought the Finnish economy out ofthe In 2008 and 2010-2012, no traction assistance was available, which was shown. According to our company’s statistical simulation, Finland’s exports would have increased faster at the time if Finland had had its own currency.” So I saw Docent Maline.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u173	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u174	Madam President! Mr Vallin presented an excellent idea in this earlier session. Although the government parties with the coalition took away the opportunity for you citizens to use their voice by rejecting the citizens' initiative to hold a referendum on the EU recovery package, now you have the opportunity to use your voice. As a Member of Parliament, I am committed to bringing your vote here to Arkadianmäki, so if you want your own speech to be read here in the Chamber of Speakers, write me your own speech, your own message, and I can quote it in connection with my speech. Send your speech on the EU recovery package to my Instagram message box. Home Front, now is the time to act on behalf of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u175	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u176	Thank you, honourable Speaker! That previous speech was confusingly short but contained in itself a good idea of how citizens should be involved in the handling of this package — that is a good idea. Indeed, there have been quite a number of e-mails received by Members of Parliament in connection with the recovery package. In my opinion, these have not been masinized in any way. Some hundreds of them have come to me too, and I understand that there is room for more on the parliamentary server so that you can put them on, I have saved them all for myself. But then to this matter in itself, the recovery package. This is disproportionately large in relation to the economies of some EU countries — the proportion we share with these countries. And there are always a few things that need to be considered: is this the right way to go, will it be supported by the right countries to which it belongs and which, therefore, have been the worst treated by the epidemic? That is not the case with this stimulus package. Nor is the size of this package the right one, i.e. it will greatly accelerate inflation and cause long-term problems in these countries, which will be forced to launch a stimulus package in their country during a certain narrow window of time. And timing is problematic — this is a considerable delay. This is going to heat up the economies. In fact, this package only buys political stability. This stimulus package is in no way unique. We have seen these earlier recovery packages, which we have had when, on a country-by-country basis, we have granted aid through a temporary and permanent support mechanism. Then there are also the huge buy-ins of the ECB. These have not been able to break the link between banks and states, and we still have considerable problems with it. New inflation rates came from the United States in April: 4.2 — a significant rate of inflation there. This is entirely due to these huge support packages that have been put in motion in the United States. The United States is reviving the United States, Italy is reviving Italy, but when Finland tries to revitalize Italy and export it, this is not the way it is. If we look at what kind of growth forecasts for the national economy, GDP growth forecasts have been presented in Finland, then the VM just got new figures, 2.6 for the current year and 2.5 for the next year. In fact, during this year that figure may even begin with three, to be closer to three. This economy of ours is rapidly recovering from the covid epidemic. And then, if you look at the Bank of Finland's nowcasting growth forecast, the short-term forecast, then actually for this early year, the first quarter, is 1.21 and for the second quarter of 1.49, then in these two, the first half of the year, there are already 2.7 according to this forecast — I would argue that closer to three are going. This is a pretty good development. Well, then, when we see that if we start by revitalising to support the growth of the national economy, then it does seem that gasoline is being thrown into the flames and probably overheated, and even now there are indications that the economy is being overheated. Overall, this stimulus package is very problematic in many respects. Perhaps the strangest part of this is that this includes an incentive for Member States to become even more indebted, to take on more and more debt. And as we see here, it overheats the economies. And in the committee's expert consultation — which is actually what I included here in the committee's report —
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u177	Congressman Wihonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u178	Mr President! Criticism of the aid package has been challenged by accusations of ruining Finland's reputation, undermining the economy or even driving the agendas of foreign powers. Criticism has been seen as an attack on the West. The fundamental Finns' criticism is that the aid package does not comply with the EU's own regulations and, when it adopts the package, the Union is taking a course towards closer economic integration. Even before the corona there have been crises, there will probably be crises in the future. As long as spending and living in debt continues, the need for recovery continues. The other packages follow the packages. It's a place where you take more debt to pay off other people's debt. In the view of the True Finns, each country should be responsible for its own debts. We are now creating tools for common debts and taxes collected by the European Union, so-called own resources. The Finns of Peru assume that the European Union is an economic community, not a federal state. It must be based on cooperation, not on centralising power in Brussels. Contrary to what is claimed, the Finns of Peru are not against international cooperation. There have been trade relations throughout history in Europe, and so will there be in the future. The Finns of Peru are not promoting the cause of people other than Finns and Finland. In the most outrageous claims, Finns are claimed to drive Finland into the arms of Russia, China or some other party. That is not the case. Finland is and remains a part of Europe. That does not mean, however, that the European Union can dictate what is done and decided in Finland. When self-determination is waived, the history of independent Finland is rather short. A small nation must have been creative between the greats. This will continue to be the case. Do we want to be in control ourselves, or are we just going with the flow? Which way are we taking Finland? It is a direct intimidation to declare that the fall of the aid package will push Finland out of Europe. If there is no criticism and the country is not in a position to resist, what is such a Union? Everything should be accepted without question, because otherwise there will be no fame. If the way is to control fear, how good can a package be? Secondly, the role of Finland has been raised to a great extent. In the speeches, the fall of the package is entirely up to this Finnish vote. If this were the case, why not negotiate the most favourable terms for Finland? In fact, Finland’s share has only decreased further. The same debate is taking place in other countries. Has the government even considered the possibility that the package would fall elsewhere? What do we do then? Minister Tuppurainen said: ‘Injurious to the thinking of the Omakansensin. “ This also seems to be the mantra of the supporters of the aid package. To counter the question, then, whose interests do you serve? Is your thinking “Europe Ensin, in Finland”? The position of the Finns is clear: the people of Finland first. We have been chosen here to decide the affairs of the Finnish people and to pursue their cause. We have not been chosen here to hand over the power of decision elsewhere or to take a huge amount of debt to the public, for their bags come with the taxes imposed here and the wages of this house. Future generations cannot be tied to debt imprisonment in the world’s pins. The people of Peru have a strong mind as to why we are here: we are here for you. That is why we are voting for the support package ‘No’ for Finns and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u179	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u180	Mr President! The speeches of my own parliamentary group, that is, the Finnish Parliament Group, have been a strong word in every respect. Unfortunately, for example, in Mrs Kärnä’s view — so she is making fun of us on Twitter and she is not showing up in this Chamber — this dedication of us to this important issue, namely the direction of the European Union and the preservation of Finland’s sovereignty, shows that we are not capable of being governed. I think Mr Kärnä should reconsider who is here thinking about the interests of Finland and the Finnish people and who is not. We are doing everything we can to ensure that the government understands what a fatal mistake we are making here. We are acting in accordance with our values, and our spine is not bent on this. It is very bold to highlight the dimensions of this recovery package which are hardly dared to be admitted from the ranks of the government parties. It is fair to all citizens that we are now talking and telling all the disadvantages that could result from the possible adoption of this package. It goes without saying that there was far too much persuasion in last summer's negotiations, and this was already warned at home. But it is also fair to raise good speeches and points of view here from representatives who are not in the Group of the Finns Party and who dare even defy group decisions. Although from there the opponents of the government parties, especially the Social Democrats and the RKP, are branded as to why, even here in the Chamber, and the finger pointing at the Finns, there are even those who hesitate in the representatives of the government parties as to whether this is now a wise decision. Similarly, there are critical voices in the assembly and Christian Democrats — are they also extremists on the right? Representative Hoskone of the Centre Group asked about these EU taxes, the so-called EU common funds — very good questions for which little answers were received. As all the documents listed by Mr Hoskosen list how EU taxes will move from, for example, plastic to corporate taxation in 2026, or just a few years from now, how can it be that they will not be admitted that this will happen? How much will this EU corporation tax be for companies in particular? How much do they decrease or do they reduce domestic taxes? If two levels of taxation overlap with one another, then it is a disaster. If, on the other hand, we are lowering corporate taxation at the same level, how will the Social Democrats explain, among other things, where the tax revenue will then be transferred to the Treasury? Mr President! Representative of the Coalition Party Mr Heikkinen, on the other hand, expressed his disappointment that some of the supporters of the package were constantly and consciously trying to slow down the debate on the subject of decision-making itself towards our country's membership of the EU. I fully agree that we are not voting on whether or not we belong to the European Union, but on what kind of European Union we certainly do not want to belong to. Mr Autto also analysed that the long-term negative effects of the recovery package outweigh the short-term benefits of the instrument and also cause economic moral hazard. Mr Rydman, on the other hand, said that even one Member State, despite its small size, could overturn the whole proposal on these issues, and even in the history of the Union this is not a new issue — then we will return to the negotiating tables. Indeed, the critical voice was also heard in Mr Kettunen's speech earlier in the day when he analysed the fact that the package is political rather than economic. He also analysed the need for further integration of the package in the future. This is also a specific threat seen in the future by the people of Finland, and this has been stated in many mouths in the leadership of the European Union. His conclusion was that it would be easier to obtain more credit during the payment of the bills, and he suspects that this is one of the Commission's favorite plans. However, Mr Kettunen's position on the package itself and his voting behaviour remained a mystery. I hope that, in the light of these critical speeches in the centre, we will really be thinking about what this package will lead to and what the conclusion is.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u181	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u182	Madam President! Yesterday in the morning hours, I mentioned a classic movie called Godfather. Everyone who knows the culture of cinema knows that this series of films is a trilogy. So it's natural that there's another part of the trilogy coming up today: Godfather II. According to the original novel, the film deals with both the past and the future — the same pattern is followed. The objective of Michael Corleone's family is to legalize its activities, but the implementation of the plans turns out to be problematic. The EU has come on the same path, but the opposite. In the past, attempts are now being made to transform legal and Treaty activities into illegal activities in breach of agreements. The implementation of the plan will also prove problematic. This Chamber has already held a second day’s debate on whether the way in which the recovery instrument is being implemented in practice violates at least Article 122 of the EU Treaty, i.e. ‘an exceptional situation encountered by one Member State’,Article125i.e. ‘commitments must not be transferred to another Member State’s responsibility’and Article 310, namely ‘the Union’s expenditure and the debt to be financed’. Several experts in Finland and in other Member States consider it clear that all the above articles are being violated. Even if we do not go to a legal question, it is clear from the point of view of economic impact. There is no doubt either that the exceptional situation caused by the interest rate or at least justified by it has hit many, almost all, and not one Member State. It is also clear that the allocation criteria for the recovery instrument lead to transfers between Member States. This will help certain Member States to meet their commitments in breach of the Treaties. Nor is it unclear that the Union's expenditure is financed by a loan, even if it takes place outside the actual budget. As the film also takes place in the past, it is good to remember the one-off packages of support for the euro crisis, Greece 1, 2 and 3 — one-off, as the numbering suggests. Most of the billions, the support euros, went into debts, interest rates, bank capitalisation and debt restructuring. Like this recovery instrument, the aid packages for Greece were also poorly designed and the main objective was not to save Greeks but to save banks and private creditors. Finnish taxpayers participated in the rescue of German and French banks. The Too big to bail concept is certainly familiar and partly true, but if banks could not be allowed to collapse, there would have been another way to save banks: Germany and France would have channelled the support of their own taxpayers to banks in the form of equity. That would have been a fair European way. Mr President! There's a scene in Godfather II where Senator Geary is demanding Michael Corleone's big bribe against a gaming license. Mr President! “I want your answers This may be compared to a memo that has been leaked to the public, according to which the EU is threatening Finland with unprecedented damage to its reputation and political pressure. Mr President! Michael Corleone’s answer is exhaustive: “If you want to, you’ll get an answer. My final offer is this: you will receive nothing.” This is the kind of answer the government offers to the Finnish people. Unfortunately, Michael’s offer is better than the EU’s offer, because in this model we will even have to pay. Corleone is in trouble when an investigation into the Senator of Nevada will eventually lead him all the way to the courtroom. With regard to the recovery package, it must be seen that Finland is increasingly identifying itself with the role of Michael's brother, Fredo. Fredo is weak and less intelligent than the rest of his brother Corleone's mob family. Like Fredo, Finland is unhappy in the negotiations and is unable to have an equal relationship with the Union. Moe Greene's going to be the real leader because Fredo can't do it. Eventually, Fredo will also be humiliated by his wife. When you look at Dombrovskis’ Finnish-language TV, this also compares with Fredo. Fredo is cheating on Michael by giving Hyman Roth information about him and by being involved. [The President : 5 minutes! ] Mr President! I fear that if the offer is not refused, the horse’s head will not be found in the decision-makers’ bed, but the head of the Finnish horse will be found in the stable in Brussels, and the Government’s talking head will again be pulled out: how we make money or how our export industry earns this and how this is necessary, unique and precise.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u183	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u184	Madam President! The young man at the top of the cloth just sent me a message on Instagram, which reads in this way: “From a 16-year-old boy country: I think it’s the first country to come, and not to pay billions of other people a debt.” In my previous speech,which I am sure is only about 15 to 20 minutes,the coefficient is that,without worrying about it,the government parties and the assembly jointly rejected this citizens’initiative for a referendum on this EUresolution package,without I tell you that you can send me a message to Instagram, and you can only appreciate that after this speech it was only a few minutes, and right away there was a message waiting for this young man on the canvas, and these messages have now started to enter the Instagram box at a really fast pace. And I will read them as I can, and you can really put them there. But the most important thing is when the government says that they want to make it possible to have a genuine and comprehensive civil dialogue. What kind of civil dialogue have they made possible? Nothing at all. Quite obscene propaganda, frankly, to speak this way and act differently. And thirdly, when there is a citizens' initiative of more than 50,000 names on this matter, in order to have a referendum, the people will be able to demonstrate their position, and that too will be rejected. And consider that in only four days those names were collected, in four days. What could have been the number of names if this citizens' initiative could have been continued in the same way as for other citizens' initiatives?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u187	Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u188	Mr President! In the EU, deeper integration and political solidarity have been achieved without changing the Treaties and without consulting the public. Examples of this include the previously established EFSF, the ESM and the fiscal agreement and the policy pursued by the ECB — and, of course, the most recent recovery package under consideration. If the EU wanted to be financially responsible, it would move from solidarity to market discipline: that each Member State should be responsible for its own economy and that no Member State would be paid for the reckless economic management and insidiousness of another Member State. But I don't. This is not the case in the EU. The use of market discipline in the EU has largely been eliminated by joint acceptance by EU-minded decision-makers. The euro countries have made the smallest but heavy steps towards very weak ice. Such steps have included, for example, the ECB’s 2012 Declaration on the purchase of sovereign debt in crisis countries, the establishment and expansion of the ESM, the creation of joint banking supervision and decisions on the creation of a single resolution authority and the creation of a resolution fund — and now, of course, this recovery package. Many European leaders, including France and Italy, have already called for the introduction of eurobonds. An increasing number of EU leaders are now talking about the possibility of the recovery package becoming a permanent mechanism for income distribution in the future. A number of key EU decision-makers are now in complete open mind about the Union for Fiscals, the Union for Debt and Current Transfers. Some even speak courageously of a federal state. I strongly believe that if Finnish citizens and citizens of other EU countries who have managed their economies in a reasonably healthy way really knew what all of this means in terms of their economy and their country's economy, the majority of them would never want to be part of such an exorbitant system. The present and, in particular, the future EU is, above all, the dream of the socialists and the new dividers of prosperity. Mr President! In the absence of market discipline, moral hazard increases and countries lose the incentive to manage their economies properly. Furthermore, the new crises resulting from moral hazard are leading to an increasing concentration of power on the European Commission. The European Commission has more control over the budgets of the Member States, which, in turn, undermines their budgetary sovereignty. In addition, the ECB's power will increase when it buys sovereign bonds. This is how the concentration of power works in practice. The EU and EMU have increased the features of the planned economy. There is the Stability and Growth Pact, the Sixpacks, the Twopacks and other regulation and control of the Commission — and the recovery package that is to come. We're on a totally untenable path. The trend is worrying on all sides. The EU elite has not been prepared to bring a clear federal model to the decision of the citizens, but the structures and solutions required by the federal government are being brought to a decision through crises, little by little and in small steps, so that no single decision in itself seems to be very significant. This, if anything, is a disgrace. Mr President! Everyone knows that the euro area is a completely unoptimal currency area. That doesn't make any sense financially. In addition to these smaller but weighty federal steps, which I mentioned earlier, the single currency, the euro, in particular, has been regarded as a powerful instrument for centralising power in the EU. In particular, the euro has served as an asset for those who advocate the socialist EU trend in the fight against the defenders of classical liberalism and national sovereignty. The transition to the single currency has been an important move towards political unification under the control of the central government in Brussels. Mr President! It is clear that if the nation states
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u189	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u190	Mr President! The EU's recovery package has been talking to citizens since the government negotiated an economically unsettled deal for Finland in the summer: give six billion, and you will get two. A large proportion of the people would have liked a referendum on this issue and would have liked to have taken a position on the possible formation of a Union for the transfer of income. But the Green Left government, supported by the coalition, did not see the need and did not agree to this — despite the fact that the rule of law has been proclaimed elsewhere. The citizens have also wondered why this transfer package has been communicated by the government to the net recipient countries of Europe as a first glorious result and later as a necessary evil. On the other hand, it is appropriate, for example, for Minister Tuppurainen to say that the thinking of his own people first is counterproductive. Although Finland’s tax rate is among the highest in Europe, tax evasion is non-existent. Smaller tax rates, massive tax evasion and poor financial management — partly caused by the corona crisis — Italy and Spain are now being rewarded with a torn-out support package for Finnish taxpayers to invest in, for example, the battery industry, which is a direct competitor to the Finnish industry in Harjavalta, for example. Thus, in terms of gross national product, Finland is one of the regions most affected by the corona crisis in Europe, and the aid should be allocated instead of the poor countries that manage its economy in order to safeguard and further improve the cost competitiveness of Finnish industry and business in both Satakunta and Finland. Mr President! Finns do not want to be rewarded for lax economic management of their economies, as is now the case for Italy and Spain, with this transfer of income in the form of corona wraps. Finns should not finance lax economic management and tax evasion of richer Italians, nor should they safeguard French banks' claims or finance a four-day working week for Spaniards. The Government should primarily promote the interests of Finland and Finland, and the proposed support package should therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u191	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u192	Mr President! It's a good helator shop for all of us! Representatives Immonen, Huru, Junnila and Tynkkynen have been very interesting to listen to. Everyone’s speech always has a new nuance and half of this important issue, the recovery package. If the SDP's Urpian ever convinced and horrified the Greek insurance policy here in Parliament, then there is now a very different class of stakes at stake in terms of both the economy and the development of the European Union. The government is sinking Finnish taxpayers into a deep swamp by taking part in this hundreds of billions recovery package without overthinking, questioning or questioning. In this Chamber, a number of speakers have updated why countries that are better run by public finances are being put to pay on behalf of less well-off countries. No bail-out was a good principle and the noble purpose of drawing it up was to ensure that the European Union did not go too far on the path of economic shared responsibility. This was a rational decision and I believe that it should continue to be respected and not involved in taking the EU seriously towards solidarity with this recovery package. It must also be remembered that the Union is also slipping in the direction of the federal state. The way in which the matter is being pushed forward is in fact contempt for democracy. Decision-making does not seem to respect democracy in Finland or the EU. Now, in the midst of the crisis, it became clear the way in which the EU is run. The most important Member States dictate, and the smaller ones do what they are asked to do nicely. In the European Union, the Commission's occupation guides decision-making in practice. The European Parliament will then simply bless the Commission's decisions. A healthy criticism of the Union's activities and future developments will not be heard. Mr President! The events of the Constitutional Committee are an indication of how questionable the aid package is. The constitutionality of the aid package is essentially influenced by the overall assessment of liabilities and is defined as a general rule in the lower deck. The financing of the aid package with debt is also a problem with the Constitution, and this is also a problem with the EU Treaty. The recovery package has been widely criticised by experts. It is difficult for ordinary Finnish voters to understand the recovery package in which billions of Finnish tax euros are being put into it in difficult times. Finland's European policy seems to be run by a small elite, and not much of the opinion of the ordinary electorate is heard in it. The idea of a referendum does not fit in with the plans of this group. The referendum is actually avoided in the financial circles of pro-Europeans. Is democracy not intended to represent the voice of the people in decision-making? What's so scary about those in power? Losing the jamotola or what? You simply cannot understand why the Marin government is piloting Finland into this bad deal. For all the following support package, the threshold will be lower if this recovery package is allowed to go through. And then you don't even ask Finland, that's my assessment. Once again, I am very pleased that the citizens' initiative for a referendum, for the formation and holding of this recovery package has been dealt with in this Chamber. There were mainly Finns here at the time, although it was a very important matter. Unfortunately, the vote was lost and there will be no referendum. The people at last and at last
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u193	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u194	Madam President! The original idea for the European Union and the euro area was to be an economic and political union in which the Member States acted independently together. The guiding principle was that, although the currency and the market were common, each Member State is responsible for its own economy, both in terms of its contribution and in terms of its response. The principle was the same as that used to be in national currencies. The financial difficulties serve as a sign of the need for remedies. If no action is taken, this would be reflected in a deterioration in the economy and employment. It was a good idea, but it was left, as we well know, with a major drain defect, which is quite a humane one. The principles of own responsibility would have worked technically well, but the lack of will on the part of the politicians in the euro area Member States has been shown to be a downfall. The countries that did not manage their economies badly did not want to make bad but necessary economic adjustments, because politically this would have been unfortunate. On the other hand, those who are well-managed do not have the will or the courage to demand compliance with the principles of their own responsibility. For these reasons, we are in a situation that we are now discussing. The Union is creating new principles contrary to its own rules. The principle of own responsibility is being changed to ensure loan financing for over-debted states and vulnerable banks. The Stability and Growth Pacts of their own will no longer apply to the Member States, even if the budgets are in deficit, and there is no end to debt. Instead of addressing the structural problems in the Member States, the focus is on the implementation of common debt, common debt securities and transfers between Member States. In this way, the euro will be saved over and over again — despite the fact that the EU Treaty limits the right of central banks to provide funding to Member States. This is Article 123. At the same time, transfers for the benefit of other Member States are prohibited under Article 125, with the exception of an unexpected disaster in a particular Member State under Article 122. In addition, the financing of the EU budget by means of a loan is prohibited in Article 310. Each of these articles, which has been enshrined in the Treaty, has at least been re-interpreted, and some have, frankly, been forgotten. It seems to me that the EU is seeking to concentrate its decision-making powers and to throw its treaties into a scrap heap. Examples include current transfers to Greece, which supported creditors and not the State itself, and the recovery package now under consideration. A number of influential people — Lagarde, Draghi, Macron, Scholz — have long called for the common risk of the euro area, common debt, eurobonds and more EU taxes, for which this plastic tax has thus already been adopted. There is no guarantee that, in the next larger crisis, the same requirements will not be met — and even more so. However, when the Treaty does not allow us to remain, it would be appropriate to deal with this issue openly. Listening to the citizens, at least in Finland, we should start a serious debate and consider the options. Even here in the Chamber there are those who are – well, for the moment there may not be, but probably in the morning again – who support or have not paid attention to this development and therefore do not object to it and pay attention to it. If we continue to belong to the Community, then of course we want it to respect its own basic rules. For a country as small as Finland, this is a huge risk. How can we know which rules are not followed or circumvented or interpreted with great flexibility? Such a community can no longer rely on the community itself or on others. Mr President! Even if the worst fears come true and the European Union becomes a full-blooded federal state, if there have already been countless violations of its own rules, can anyone believe that it will not continue to do so? Madam President! I will finish my speech with a well-known Finnish quote:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u195	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u196	Madam President! May the words of Miko Bergbom, Chairman of the Finnish Youth Foundation, be recorded in the parliamentary minutes, in which he states: “The Finnish Parliament! We Finns are really disappointed in the direction in which you are taking our country and, worst of all, by what means. The EU's unique and precise recovery package is far from predictable. In fact, the package takes our country towards a federal state, where Finland will no longer be able to decide as independently as it is in its own country. As a citizen and a young politician, I worry about how badly money and power corrupt you. The question must be asked: why do you care more about the short-term benefits for yourself than about the independence of your own country and its future? Then, when the basic Finnish youth carried out the Government’s wish for an adequate civil debate through a citizens’ initiative and collected nearly 60,000 signatures in a few days to hold a referendum on the recovery package, we cut off the collection of names immediately so that it could pass through parliamentary deliberations. Then what did you do? You delayed the solution to the final stages, you acknowledged in Mr PeV's statement that the decision was political, and you laughed at the fate of the initiative during the vote in the Chamber. How dare you? Does the Finnish voice and opinion mean anything to you? It seems that it will not be unless it brings short-term benefits to yourself. If you stepped out of your towers, you would see how bad the condition of many Finns is, how bad our roads are, how bad the youth and the elderly in our country are. There is no money for these, but according to the Commission's whistle, there is enough to dance. You should be ashamed of yourself. Miko Bergbom, Chairman of the Finnish National Youth.’ Madam President! I received this message just last night from this person when I said earlier that this civil debate should indeed be made possible because the citizens' initiative to hold this referendum on the EU recovery package was rejected. And still, all citizens who want their voices to be heard and taken into account in Parliament, the still-signed Instagram will be able to put these own speeches of yours directly from you citizens who want them to be heard. We Finns are ready to fight for you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u197	Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u198	Mr President! Ratification of the Recovery Fund will lead to fundamental reinterpretations of Articles 125 and 310 TFEU. We can talk directly about breaking them. Until now, these articles have prevented the EU from developing into a Union of transfers and a federal state. As the Fund removes obstacles to a common EU debt and the sharing of budgetary responsibility between Member States, it will inevitably lead to a massive increase in solidarity in the future. The EU debt package also provides a basis for EU tax law. There has been a debate here in the Chamber about whether or not to open up tax law to the EU. The government claims not to open, but the truth is different. This joint loan should be repaid over the next 30 years. In the future, the increase in EU member contributions would be reduced by accepting new sources of income for the EU, such as plastic, emission duties, digital tax, financial transaction tax, and corporate tax or tax. The adoption of the recovery package is therefore also a preliminary acceptance of new EU taxes. Common taxes would deepen the integration of Member States and make the Union an ever closer economic union. Mr President! Given, for example, the poor state of the Italian and Spanish economies and the banking sector in southern Europe, it is certain that the recovery fund will not be a one-off fund. It is highly likely that the size of the fund would be increased considerably and very quickly. We are slowly slipping step by step towards the federal state of the EU. The single currency The euro removes the central balancing mechanism between countries, its own exchange rate, which is responsible for balancing the competitive gap between countries, restricts the reckless indebtedness of countries and flexible according to the needs of the country's economy. According to economic experts, differences in competitiveness between countries arise, inter alia, as a result of various labour market institutions, culture and national labour market policies. Some countries, such as Finland, have strong labour market institutions, which often drive higher wage increases than in Germany, for example. As a result, the price of a product or service made in the common currency in Finland, for example, for US companies and households, will increase compared to a similar product manufactured in Germany. It will take a very long time to harmonise the differences in competitiveness between the countries of the single currency, and this may never happen. Mr President! The main task of the country's own exchange rate is to provide the export sector with leverage in the event of recession and economic crises. If, for some other reason, a country specialising in exports, such as Finland, encounters a global recession or a decline in global demand for its export products, the exchange rate is generally flexible downwards, making its products cheaper on the international market. This will improve the price competitiveness of the country’s products, making them cheaper, for example, for US companies. As a result, more international demand is directed towards Finnish products. As a result, the profits of our export companies and the ability to pay wages will increase. This will also help the economy recover faster from various crises. When the currencies of the countries are removed in the single currency, all the mechanisms for balancing the economy mentioned above will be lost. Competitiveness and productivity differentials burden the Member States of the single currency. Mr President! In the euro area, productivity and competitiveness disparities have increased in practice throughout the period of existence of the single currency due to deep structural differences between countries. [The President : 5 minutes! ] Mr President! The EU Recovery Fund for Finland and all EU Member States means in practice losing economic sovereignty. Parliament also loses its budgetary sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u199	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u200	Mr President! Since it seems that the government is moving Finland towards a debt union and a federal state with the EU recovery package, it certainly seems that the risks of this rescue fund may not have been adequately considered by the government parties. In order to ensure that the voting decision is not caught up in a lack of information, I quote Peter Nyberg, who has retired as head of the finance department of the Ministry of Finance, a doctorate in political science and a long-term official. He summarises the recovery package and the interests of Finland and the EU in this way: ‘The European Council, meeting in Brussels, has reached The announced purpose of the package was to accelerate the economies of the Member States and the recovery from the consequences of the corona virus. It includes an EU Multiannual Financial Framework for 2021 to 2027 and an actual recovery instrument of EUR 750 billion. The Finnish negotiators may not have been very well prepared for their demanding task. Despite the exceptional size of the stimulus package and the arrangements of different sizes, it appears that no sound financial analysis and strategic analysis had been carried out in Finland before the meeting. The decision was taken on the basis of the Commission's overly vague and subsequently questionable arguments about the economic and legal objectives and sanctions of the package. They were also presented to the Finnish public as reasons for the package. In recent months, domestic experts have made significantly different assessments of the economic and legal consequences of the recovery package for Finland. The government has not just commented on these estimates but appears to be committed to the views of the EU Commission. According to experts’ estimates, the stimulus package does not seem to stimulate the Finnish economy much, nor is it a better solution than national fiscal policy. In practice, the authorities are unable to ensure that the part of the funding returned to Finland is: would be used for profitable investments. Future repayment of the loan The new EU taxes contained in the package can, in turn, at least partially weaken the future disposable income of Finns. Finland’s net debt will rise by EUR 4.5 billion as a result of the stimulus package. It is worrying if the authorities, at the current debt burden in Finland and at the rate of indebtedness, are prepared to do so. The recovery package is based on circumvention of the EU Treaty and several provisions. The current agreement prohibits transfers for the benefit of other Member States
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u201	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u202	Mr President! The Red-Green Government does not think much about the interests of the country, whether it is economic policy, immigration or European policy. The blessing of this European Union recovery package is a huge mistake, completely incomprehensible. When Finland voted in favour of EU membership in the 1990s, it was believed that the fundamental principles of the Union would prevail here. Since then, it has been noted that no bail-outs and other important principles have been rejected. The unfair distribution of taxpayers' money through the recovery package, contrary to the principle of solidarity, is wrong. The special point is that it is with this solidarity that the Marin Government is trying to justify the exhumation of the recovery package here in Parliament. As far as the Treaty is concerned, the revenue and expenditure of the EU budget should be balanced and unbridled borrowing should not be a way of reassuring expenditure. The EU has changed much worse from what it was when Finland joined. And what will the EU be in the future? In time, when the Greek aid package was discussed in Parliament for the first time, for example, the pro-Europeans explained very strongly that it was just a one-off package. And what happened? No, it wasn't. In the same way, the recovery package is a head start for the following. Why do we want to reject the old good principles of the EU once and for all? Why does the Finnish Government not fight for a fairer Europe? Unfortunately, the European Union is currently on its way through the Union for Income Transfers to a federal state. In time, when the Finns voted for EU membership, the voters were promised economic stability and a cheaper food bag, but time has shown us that these promises have not come true. Instead, from the perspective of the Finnish taxpayer, EU membership has increased the risks. As the Member States that have better managed their affairs through increased joint responsibilities are forced to rescue weaker economies, the citizens of the net contributor countries will suffer. Many basic services are saved in Finland. Savings are applied for, among other things, for care of the elderly, medical care, education, early childhood education and maintenance of the fairway network. In practice, almost everything else can be cut from the red-green government except the cost of immigration. It seems threatening that the European Union is on its way to increasing its economic joint responsibilities. It is therefore time for Finland to stop and reflect on its role in the Union. The role of the EU should be carefully analysed in the future. If this increase in joint responsibilities increases, will we soon have a federal state with a strong grip on the affairs and legislation of its Member States? And will the EU start to raise taxes in the future? What will the trend in Finland's membership fee be in the future? Are we prepared to make EU membership really expensive for a Finnish taxpayer? This decision is particularly relevant to future generations. Do we want to leave them the burden of supporting other countries in addition to taking care of their own affairs? Is this the intergenerational justice? It is now time to reflect on the interests and disadvantages of the EU. Since Finland’s economic growth has been before the corona in comparison between the Member States, there is doubt about the benefits of membership for our country’s economy. This, too, is in favour of a thorough reassessment of the situation. You can't go any further than this debt. It is so important that Prime Minister Marin should take a thorough view of the shortcomings that have arisen most in this debate and the problematic consequences for Finland. Governments must be able to publicly justify their decisions. Mr President! I greatly marvel at the blindness and blindness of the government towards the change of the Union in a much worse way for Finland. The economic stability and security that Finland expects from the EU is no longer the basis for membership in the same way as before. This concern and fact must be strongly raised and not merely as a performer in the EU when claims are made from the Brussels tables. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u203	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u204	Thank you, Madam President. I shall now read the following distressed citizens’ message that I received through Instagram from the inbox. This person's name is Tommi Majid, and I read this message with his permission and also tell his name with his permission: "Hi! I listened to your speech in Parliament and I was encouraged. It is really dangerous for Finland to do whatever the EU tells it to do. The government does not want to hear the people in a referendum, because the people could vote incorrectly. It is absurd that Finland commits itself to paying for the reckless economy of other countries. Why do Finns have to commit to paying for this too? Our government's debt is growing and growing. A small nation will have to play an unreasonable role. This seems like a big step towards a federal state. Why are we going this way? Could someone clarify how Finland benefits from this package? This is not the way we should go. The interests of Finns must be a priority and should be so.” Thank you very much to this citizen, too, for making contact and putting this speech here for reading. It is important that this civil debate is held, and you actually asked the question here: could someone clarify how Finland benefits from this package? Unfortunately, no representative of the government party is present here today to answer this question, nor any representative of the coalition who should be divided in voting on it. Nor do we have any ministers here to answer this question, but for my part I can answer this question: Finland will not really benefit from this package because when Finland pays EUR 3; Finland will receive only one euro back. Unfortunately, this package is justified, so to speak, by the revival of Europe, even though there is actually a solution for each country to be able to revive completely from its own resources, as Finland has done anyway. Finland has revived with a huge amount of money in this country, but in addition to that, Finland has now been burdened with revitalising other countries. The fact that Finland is a common trading area with other EU countries is really a bad argument for us to have to finance another country first so that we can have exports. We could have orders from another country. Why are we not directly reviving these companies in our own country? In other words, here Finland is clearly faced with the role of the loser and indeed with what this package is all about: in fact, I would say that the principle here is much greater than that of financing these southern countries which have been irresponsiblely managing their economies. In my view, it is in the background that EU leaders have had a plan for a long time that they want to create a full-blooded EU federal state. And it has been terribly difficult because there is no support for such an idea in the European nation states, in fact. They have the dream that when they are here first, even if in a local council or county council, in a state parliament all the time, they have gone up, then they have gone up to the parliament, perhaps they have been ministers of parliament, even prime ministers, and since then the politician really does not have much room for growth in himself in what might be the next place to go, where it is like a so-called career path, so the EU has become this way. There these posts are really hard-paid, and in addition to being hard-paid, there is a huge amount of power attached to them, and these politicians, who have been intoxicated by power, have wanted to build such a federal state, but they really did not have support in the nation states for this, and now through decisions like this, which, for another reason, go into deepening integration, that federal state can be built, because the more dependent these countries are on each other, the more we are and the longer we are on the ground. [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u205	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u206	Mr President! Mr Tynkkynen has pointed out in his speech that there are certainly no members of parliament in this Chamber, for example, to talk about this, but when I look at that front row, for example, Mr Elomaa, from Mascua, can be found here. And while Masku has a furniture house that makes reasonable sofa beds and soft beds, Elomaa is still here to defend Finland's sovereignty. Whatever time it must be, here he is.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u209	Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u210	Mr President! In the context of the debate on the recovery package, the decision-makers of the European Union have once again been able to speak beautifully about common EU solidarity and common values. Today, pro-Europeans have claimed, for example, that those who oppose the recovery package are undermining the EU's solidarity, development and peace. In formal speeches, EU integration has been said to be aimed at peace, democracy and economic prosperity. Great things all, but it is appropriate to ask whether these objectives are actually being achieved in the EU's decision-making process. Mr President! I dare say that, in practice, the current coercive integration and the trampling of the Treaties threaten the stability and peace of the EU and further deepen the divisions between the peoples of Europe and also within the peoples. For a long time, the EU has been torn apart, in particular, by divergent economic policy views between southern and northern Europe and by differences between Eastern and Western Europe in terms of immigration policy and values. Viewing Russia and foreign policy issues, in turn, challenge the credibility of the EU's common foreign and security policy. The efforts of the EU elite to force the various nations together and to make the wealthier economies pay for the reckless economy of poorer economies undermine the cohesion, solidarity and peace within Europe. International trade based on equity and voluntaryity, in which both parties benefit from the exchange of goods, is undeniably a source of stability. But when we move towards non-voluntary flows of goods or transfers of income in one direction, stability tends to deteriorate. The historical example of the non-voluntary flow of goods in one direction is the German war compensations after World War I, when the Allies were armed with gold and goods from Germany to their own countries. Well, we all know what the result was: Hitler came to power, who agreed to get rid of the hated Versailles treaty and, in particular, the war compensation. These compensations, which were considered to be an obstacle to the voluntary exchange of goods, were one of the factors which led to the outbreak of the Second World War. Mr President! The ongoing redistribution of wealth among Member States increases the risk of new conflicts in Europe, as goods and assets are transferred from one country to another without any recovery. In practice, there have been two mechanisms in the EU to redistribute wealth and goods in a one-way manner between Member States, thus deepening the gap between Europeans. The first of these mechanisms is the formal redistribution of wealth, which was already expressed in the Treaty of Rome as an attempt to achieve so-called regional development, i.e. redistribution of wealth. A European Regional Development Fund was then set up to finance regional development projects through the Structural Funds. The second fundamental pillar of the EU's policy on the redistribution of direct wealth is the idea of the Cohesion Funds, the largest beneficiaries of which are, surprisingly, the countries of southern Europe. Well, another mechanism for non-voluntary one-way flow of commodities is, of course, money market. [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u211	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u212	Mr President! I would like to continue my previous speech by quoting Peter Nyberg, who is therefore a retired doctor of political science and a long-term official as head of the finance department of the Ministry of Finance. So he has summed up the recovery package and the interests of Finland and the EU in this way, and I will continue with the quote: ‘Thisrecovery package is a major threat to Finland. The adoption of the current recovery package will also mean acceptance of the circumvention of the Treaty. This will open the door to new support packages and circular companies on the way to the budget union. Italy is already making joint debt and budget union the cornerstones of its EU policy. France has also indicated that it wants a larger package.’ ‘This development would be detrimental to the EU, which has budgetary power, In the longer term, the Union itself will not benefit from circumvention of the Treaty, from less legitimacy or from a deterioration in sustainable economic management. The possible joint economy must be based on the responsible management of the economy guaranteed by the Treaty, the possibility of debt arrangements and the avoidance of Member States' indebtedness and transfers between them. The use of non-subsidised transfers of income will be detrimental to the Union, to fuel disunity between Member States and not solidarity.” ‘There are two reasons why new packages are The recovery package does not solve any of the underlying fundamental economic problems in the Member States. In addition, experience shows that agreements or promises in the EU do not keep ‘However, there would be a short-term belief that there is only a For decades, Finland has been taken for granted that contractualism in international matters is essential to our interests and security. After all, an alternative would be a system of law without softening the law of a stronger one. If Finland were now to allow the EU to circumvent the agreed regulations without any sadness, our future demands for compliance would be unbelievable. It is difficult to see what good this would do Finland.” Mr President! Despite the above, however, it seems that we are still heading towards debt imprisonment and federalism and, as we have heard from the EU, a more permanent approach to the recovery package is envisaged, even though it is insured to be one-off and precise. The Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, has spoken of a permanent instrument, and the same line has been followed by Mr Gentiloni, Commissioner for Economic Affairs. Mr President! Despite speeches on the rule of law, the government did not want to hold a referendum on the support package, although a large proportion of Finns demanded it with a citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u213	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u214	Mr President! ‘The impact of the interest rate economy has This has been going on for over a year now. Finland's economic growth has been at the very end of European comparisons in recent years, so our economy and competitiveness were already very weak before the interest rate. I would like to raise this point in the context of the EU recovery package, because the package will directly benefit the Member States and their companies competing in the same market with Finland. This makes the recovery package extremely unfair for Finland.” So wrote an experienced conglomeration politician in a poll. I would like the representatives of the coalition here in Parliament to take this important opinion into account when we vote on this recovery package. In Finland, policies have not been able to find successful solutions to many long-established challenges, for example in areas such as employment or social security. Is it right for Finnish voters that the government is taking us into a stimulus package that will generate billions of losses for Finland while, at the same time, we are rolling around in the midst of problems? Could we not revitalize our own economy without sending money to debt countries in southern Europe? Many Finns have health problems, financial problems — there is a lack of resources in support measures in Finland. You know, people in this town would need every penny. Every cent. The government should take into account now that the need for this country is tough. I sympathise with the difficulties of the Italian people, but the Finnish tax money should be earmarked for improving the well-being of Finns. And in Finland we are now getting full mouths and eyes, as the old people say, and then pass on this debt taken by Finland as gift money. Finland’s indebtedness rate has been worrying in the 2010s. Furthermore, the structural problems of society have not been addressed. At this rate, our economy will soon be at the level of the countries of southern Europe. Is this what the government is pursuing here in Finland? It is high time for the government to awaken to the interests of Finland, I repeat. What would happen to Finland if the recovery package were then voted down? Nothing at all. The intimidation of the representatives of the government parties is a bogeyman level. How could the EU start to discipline a long-term net contributor country in Finland? What kind of message would that be for Europe as a whole? One cannot condemn a country that calls for the EU's original principles to be respected by resisting the increase in collective responsibilities contrary to their spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u217	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u218	Thank you, Madam President. I shall now read the next message sent by the citizen to Parliament. His name is Timo Kariluoto, and he is from South Ostrobothnia, and he wants to say to Parliament this: ‘I would like to say a word to My father did not fight on the eastern border with his brothers because this land, which was earned and built only to be donated to the one who dared come first to demand it because he dared. I did not swear my military oath so that I could desecrate the sacrifice of my fathers and their brothers. My military oath obliges me to protect this country against both internal and external threats. What is not right or fair then may not be a law, and it should be changed. Accepting the facts is the beginning of wisdom. The tracks of lies and deception cannot stand the light of day.” Over. There has been a huge amount of these messages, and I would like to thank Timo Kariluoto for sending this message to Parliament. I will read these messages sent to Instagram, which you wish to send to Parliament through the Citizens' Dialogue as they occur and in order. Don't worry, I'll read them all. There are quite a lot of them in the queue now, but at least now is a good time for you to write what you have in your heart, what you want to say to the decision-makers of Parliament, and these words you say — do you know what? They will remain in the parliamentary minutes of this debate on the EU recovery package for ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u219	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u220	Madam President! That is where Mrs Elomaa spoke with reference to Italy, and it is certainly time that we came to the last part of the Godfather trilogy. Since this is a crime film in the Mafia world, it is natural that we should continue to talk about Italy, the mafia and the recovery package. The film was also the most expensive trilogy, which ironically fits, because this recovery package under discussion will be extremely expensive for Finns and the Finnish State. As early as last summer, almost a year ago, DIA, the Italian Anti-Mobile Research Agency, warned that the mafia was already starting to develop strategies so that they too could participate in the hundreds of billions of euros recovery package, both in Italy itself and throughout Europe. It is clear that the mafia does not look beside them with their hands in their pockets when billions of euros are being poured into Italy, which is well known for corruption. Corruption is one of the mafia’s means of accessing support banks. In addition, using the slow, rigid and inefficient Italian bureaucracy, criminals, for example, will be able to use pressure to obtain public contracts and support euros. According to the DIA report, potential targets for the Mafia include, for example, the renovation of hospitals, construction, the production and distribution of medical equipment and the waste management of hospitals. As far as waste management is concerned, we will also remember Naples and the conflicts that have taken place there in the past. For example, the ‘NdranghejaSisilianCosanostraova, based in Calabria, the southern tip of Italy, has been able to deal with public contracts through a number of policy contacts which have beenprimarily well-preserved. The money for good ends up in the pockets of the Mafia. Is that what European solidarity is all about? According to the DIA, criminal organisations have already extended their tentacles to a large part of the Italian economy, which is already in trouble, and also because of the mafia. For example, the Mafia invests billions in hotels, restaurants, car and clothing stores and even pharmacies that are in financial difficulties. Small players who are disciplined by the Koronapandemia and are in difficulty, focused on tourism and retailing, are easy prey for mafia organisations. In recent years, the Mafia has also taken over from new industries, fashion, renewable energy and the food industry. Even a green transition goes into the pockets of the Mafia in Italy. The DIA warns not only Italy, but also Europe more widely, because Italian mafia organisations, for example the largest but perhaps the least known 'Ndrangheta', have built a criminal Europe rather than around it. Especially corrupt countries are good soil for criminal organisations. The warning of the DIA is not caught up in the wind and should be taken seriously. European criminal organisations, and the Italian mafia in particular, were quick and effective in exploiting the euro crisis ten years ago, for example, by raising interest rates and by taking over companies in difficulty, which will then be used for money laundering, among other things. Estimates of the financial power of the Mafia vary and it is very difficult to measure in real terms. However, many studies estimate that the aggregate size of the three main categories of Italian mafias amounts to up to 7-10% of Italy's gross domestic product. This means an annual turnover of well over EUR 100 billion, which makes it possible to consider the mafia as Italy's largest company. Italy's share of the future recovery package, including loans, is around EUR 200 billion. It'll make you wonder.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u223	Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u224	Mr President! José Manuel Campa, Director of the European Banking Authority, already stated in May 2020 that the planned part of the recovery fund, in the form of grants, should be fully used to capitalise European banks. This statement is extremely worrying. The capital requirement of the Italian banks alone was estimated to be between EUR 300 billion and EUR 400 billion last summer. With a large number of countries in southern and central Europe closed down throughout the winter, the capitalisation needs of their companies and banks are likely to be considerably higher. The bottom is untenable. The planned common deposit guarantee would not serve Finland’s interests, as our banks are in good condition. South European banks, on the other hand, have a huge need for capitalisation of up to EUR 2000 billion. Many economic experts say that this would lead to our banks being guaranteed deposits from weak banks in southern Europe in a banking crisis. Experts also believe that bank investor responsibility in the EU and the euro area will never work, because banks have such a different ownership base. In Italy, for example, households and SMEs own a significant proportion of the shares and bonds of local banks. The reset of investor responsibility, i.e. shareholders and debt holders, would lead to an even deeper banking crisis. In Italy, therefore, the rescue of banks with taxpayers' money will continue. Through the deepening of the Banking Union and the Recovery Fund, Finnish citizens would also be associated as payers. Mr President! I think it is quite clear that southern Europe is facing a banking crisis. The banking crisis is something I would like to see more public debate in Finland. Finland in this future banking crisis has only been given and only the role of the payer through the Banking Union, and the EU Recovery Fund would only increase it. From the allocation criteria of the EU Recovery Fund, it can be concluded that its primary role is hardly related to the corona virus at all. The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide reckless support for the economies of those countries that have managed their economies and failed in the euro. Mr President! The recovery fund is creating a new layer of debt in Europe over the EU level, i.e. the nation states. The massive sovereign debt of Italy, Spain and Greece and the pressure exerted by the single currency on Member States with weak economies will in practice ensure that, if such a new supranational liability layer is created in the euro area, it will very likely be reused repeatedly. It is therefore up to the Fund to start collecting the sovereign debt of the over-debted Member States, in particular Italy and Spain, at EU level, i.e. to transform the EU into a fiscal union. We have already heard speculations at the mouth of the French, Italian and German leaders about making the fund permanent or, I will mention this in the sitats, a considerable increase. Given the massive debt burden in Italy and Spain and the unacceptable state of the Southern European banking sector, it is quite clear that the fund will have to be increased in the near future. The fund will not be a unique one, but it will be able to create a continuation. If EU transfers and Article 125 prohibiting co-indebtedness and Article 310 ensuring budgetary discipline are re-interpreted in a fundamental way, [The President : 5 minutes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u225	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u226	Mr President! Since Finland, within the framework of this rescue fund, is now paying EUR 4 billion net to the economies of Italy and Spain and of Eastern Europe, I would like to remind every colleague and every citizen of what kind of money is actually being spoken about. Four billion, or EUR 4000 million, net contributions — nine zeros follow the number four. It is thought that the average wage and salary earners in Finland earn around EUR 3000 gross per month. This hardworking Finn is even lucky these days to have a job to pay for, with a green transition, when both these and investments have moved away from Finland in addition to the support package. This average-income Finnish earns around EUR 39,000 gross per year. If this person is lucky enough to be able to work without unemployment for 40 years, for example, he earns EUR 1560000 gross throughout his career. I would remind you that this is the gross wage for the whole of working time, the working life, for which no taxes have yet been paid or even the first bill. When 2564 Finnish average incomes work for the entire 40-year career, their total gross salary is EUR 4 billion, i.e. the same amount that the government and majority of the voting rights are now sending to Italy, Spain and Eastern Europe, i.e. 2564 Finnish working hours of 40 years. One of the countries in which taxation is to be abolished for persons under the age of 25, one of which is to try a four-day working week on the same salary and, in the midst of the corona crisis, provides basic income, the third of which will be paid EUR 250 child benefit up to the age of 21, and so on. Similarly, if 102,000 — i.e. 102,000 — of the average Finnish income were to work for a year without pay, the whole amount would go to this European charity so that not even food would be paid to these unpaid workers, then the sum would be EUR 4 billion. Mr President! This is the poison you are now drinking to the Finns in the government and in the assembly — are you not ashamed? The proposed aid package should not be accepted, but the money should be used for the benefit of Finns, our cost competitiveness must be improved and our industry's ability to function and export markets must be safeguarded. This package must therefore be rejected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u227	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u228	Mr President! Representatives Immonen, Huru, Tynkkynen, Junnila have been very pleased to listen to the facts about the recovery package in the last hours. [Basic Finns :Thank you!] The EU has undergone a huge transformation since Finland decided to jump into the sled at the end of the last millennium. By following the principles of the Union at that time, this recovery package under discussion would simply not even be possible. The Member States that have done better have increasingly been forced to rescue the Member States that are wreaking havoc. The gap between the northern and southern euro area has increased. Furthermore, with the enlargement of the Union, the number of so-called net beneficiaries has increased and the number of contributors has increased. Many Finnish experts have also raised concerns about the changing nature of the fundamental principles of the EU and of the Union as a whole. Are we on our way through the Union for Income Transfers to the federal state? That's what it looks like. The solution could be a determined effort at EU level to strengthen competitiveness and business in all Member States. As a result of this interest rate, virtually all EU Member States are facing more or less difficulties. How long the problems will continue and what will be their final price tag will only be resolved in the near future. It is clear that the EU must try to find solutions by darkening the interest rate on the playing field of the economy. Instead of funding recovery measures through transfers between Member States, efforts should be made to improve the competitiveness of the continent as a whole on the world market. How more European and Finnish companies would pass through and grow into an international big-gamer is a question that should be urgently sought for a solution. It's a cold fact that this old continent is not going fast right now. Among the world’s 100 largest stock exchange companies there is little European glory. On the other hand, Chinese companies today, for example, were strongly placed on the dominant list of US companies. The debate on how to safeguard Europe's competitiveness in the future has been completely out of place during the interest rate, even though the conditions for growth should be strengthened right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u229	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u230	Madam President! The following citizen’s message from this EU recovery package has been sent by Timo Jääskä from Kannus, and he said in his own opinion: ‘The first thing he needs to do is wonder how our Prime MinisterSannaMarinoikeinThe People of Finland thinks that we can’t use the last word in this context,but that for the sake of the rules of the Parliament we use the modified truth —’a wonderful one,and our mentor’s faith. Of course,there is some fear that not all”—changed “I don’t understand why Prime Minister SannaMar’s acting courses and practice ready answers and responses that will then be used It is not the saying of these words, such as, for example, ‘government’, ‘one-off’, ‘business’ and so on, that makes it’—changed truth—a more credible one. I am also very confused as to why Prime Minister Sanna Marin has not been held responsible for the initial signing of this agreement. Now that we reject this stimulus package, it will only suffer the reputation of Prime Minister Sanna Marin himself. Neither Finland nor the Finnish people have at any time expressed an interest in joining this package. I therefore wonder why we are even having to have this debate on the recovery package’ — starting to tire — ‘anyone wants to join, as is apparent from the government’s role in Brussels. ‘I am very concerned about the kind of country we leave to I, for one, would like to leave the country to my own son so as not to have to pay the debt we took out. That is why I am horrified that we are now taking a terrible amount of debt and sending the money directly abroad. It would still be possible to understand the debt if it were a liability.”... - We'll have to pick it up later. I'm tired now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u231	Congressman Ari Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u232	Madam President! I'm going to finish my speech last time. This will make it possible to accept common debts and transfers in the euro area, to implement them immediately and to introduce them later. Under the pretext of the corona crisis, the EU will be transformed into a debt union and a state of the Union for Income Transfers. Although the step to be taken with the Fund can be considered formally small, one-off and precise, suggesting that a simple majority in Parliament can accept the Fund, the reality is different for the Finns. The committee's responsibility in this matter is significant. Neither the EU nor any other EU Member State is in the national interest in this matter. The real objectives of the recovery fund, the direction of the Union towards the federal state and the development of Finland's driftwood status in the federal state of the EU should be at the forefront of the debate, but now they are almost completely ignored. As stated in the opinion of the committee, it is ‘not a negligible risk that the adoption of the proposal should be a significant step towards an asymmetrical We understand that the term refers to the form of the EU in which the net contributor countries would transfer money to the net recipient countries and would also be liable for liabilities. The proposal states that by June the EU Commission will bring its proposal for new sources of EU own resources. For reasons of modesty, these payments are not always called taxes, even though they are. Only a concrete decision has been taken on the plastic charge. Since it is no longer possible to balance the multiannual budget other than by substantially increasing EU membership fees or by increasing new taxes, the political pressure to accept any proposal for own resources will be enormous at a later stage. Decisions should never have to be made against the wall, and certainly not on a matter of principle as big as the granting of tax rights to the EU. When you read expert opinions between the lines, it is obvious that the purpose of the budget package is not a national recovery, international coordination of recovery, the national interest of Finland or the recovery of Finnish exports. It is a question of financial support for previously over-debted countries over the interest rate crisis through transfers between EU countries and a common debt. The recovery effect of the whole is modest on a European scale, and despite Finland’s high net contribution, Finland’s economic benefits are either small or even negative. It is therefore possible that instead of improving the programme package, Finland’s debt sustainability, exports and economic productivity may be undermined. Despite the invitations, the Government has not been able to present an impact assessment of the effects of the recovery package. On the government side, it has been argued that it is impossible to draw up an assessment before the country-specific programmes for sustainable growth have been approved and put into effect. The more likely reason is that the direct benefits of the package for Finland will be limited. The rejection of the package at this stage is considered practically impossible both in the opinion of the committee and in a number of expert opinions. In fact, even alternative approaches to crisis management among willing EU countries would be possible without violating and thus blatantly circumventing the EU Treaties. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it is not justified for Finland to agree to the proposed recovery fund. In Finland, there is a fundamental debate and a democratic mandate for the people. Nor can politicians appeal to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u233	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u234	Madam President! Good morning! The sun rises 4:45, and if you look at it from the Ursa Tower, it seems to be rising from the east between March and September, and that is why we must also talk about Russia in this context. Mr President! The adoption of the EUR 750 billion recovery package under discussion has also been defended using the Russian card by confusing security policy with the debate on the European Union's revenue transfers. In this rhetoric, among other things, Mr Kärnä has been restored, according to which the Kremlin would be the only place where the fall of the recovery package would be celebrated. I dare to doubt his claim to be ‘yes to the people’. Mr Kärnä has promised to do his part on Twitter in favour of the recovery package, even if this would in practice mean that the debts of other countries would be met, as well as higher tax increases in Finland, so that those countries that were irresponsible in their southern European economies could reduce their own taxation. I'm assuming that Mr. Kärnä is on the land of sleep at this time, so I think we'll find that part in the feather islands. Mr President! According to Professor Markku Kuisma, EU Finland has returned to its role as a province during the Russian Empire. As a member of the European Union, the northern, small-scale state will no longer appear only as a province and as part of a wider economic and political package. Emeritus Professor Timo Soikkanen of political history has also written 15 years ago in the book ‘The political history of Finnish society’,howindependent,nationalFinlandisthelonger mass of EU membershipandremovesthetimes ofautonomy. Now the recovery package is taking Finland and the European Union towards the federal state and the Union for Income Transfers. Indeed, similarities between EU membership and autonomy are easy to see. Madam President! Those who know history will surely remember how the era of autonomy eventually led to the repressive years of the 19th and 20th centuries when the Russian Empire tried to overthrow Finland. It is a miracle that this subject has not yet been ignored this morning. The most famous event of the first period of oppression was the February 1899 manifesto, which was considered to be a coup d'état in Finland, which was intended to replace the Finnish constitutions. As a result, a well - organized passive resistance arose and a so - called great petition was collected, with over half a million names in a few weeks. How timely is the citizens' initiative on the holding of a referendum on the EU recovery package. It collected the necessary signatures and proceeded to Parliament's deliberations. Unfortunately, Parliament rejected this citizens' initiative after the vote. Mr President! Later, in the so-called second period of oppression, the Non-Discrimination Act was passed, which gave Russian residents the right to apply for posts without Finnish citizenship. Finally, World War I prevented the implementation of a program called the Great Russian program. Madam President! So I ask today: is history repeating itself, and can there be any lessons from history? The second period of oppression ended in the February Revolution in St. Petersburg in March 1917. The European Union, for its part, has moved from one crisis to another, from the crisis in democracy to the economic crisis, from the economic crisis to the migration crisis and, most recently, from the migration crisis to the corona crisis, and there is no end. If we do not put national interests first, it is certain that the judgment of history will be severe. That is why I support Mr Halla-aho's proposal and will vote against the recovery package.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u235	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Good morning, Finland! Even if the government parties and even the coalition have argued here that this recovery package, which we are dealing with here, is in the interests of Finland and the economists are united, this is not the case. In January, Juha Tervala, a doctor of economics, heard by the Committee on Finance, said that the EU recovery package could have a negative impact on the Finnish economy even if it succeeded. Mr Tervala stated to the Committee on Finance that ‘The net impact of the recovery instrument on the Finnish economy may be negative as the instrument will revive Amendment: it is noted that the recovery tool package may not have a positive impact on the Finnish economy, although the aim is to use the recovery instrument's money as rationally as possible." Government parties have justified the benefits of the package for Finland by the fact that the recovery of the net recipient countries of southern Europe is also important for Finland's exports. According to Tervala, research literature does not support this idea either. Tervala was involved last year in a study on the fiscal recovery in Northern Europe in the 2010s, and it emerged that the impact of the stimulus on the Southern European economy through exports was very small due to the limited trade between the south and the north. Therefore, transfers from the Recovery Instrument to Southern and Eastern Europe are not necessarily in Finland's best interest either. I would like to quote Tervala’s opinion to the Committee on Finance: ‘In the EUrich countries such as Germany and Sweden, which are of major importance to Finland’s export and which are increasing demand in lower income countries that are Current transfers are hardly conducive to Finland’s exports.” According to Tervala, the recovery package may undermine both Finland’s fiscal balance and economic growth. Finland will pay the cost of the package in the coming decades in the form of higher membership fees, which may require, for example, tax evasion and thus reduce domestic demand. Among other things, Mr Ritva Elomaa, a representative of the Finnish People's Party, raised the question of how the stimulus package might affect the taxation of Finns, our Finns, who are already taxed on exhausted incomes. Tax tensions weaken domestic demand. At the same time, Estonia, for example, a much smaller country than Finland, receives EUR 6 billion net from the recovery facility. I would ask Minister Vanhanen if he were here at the moment: Do you think Dr. Tervala is wrong about his views? And if you think he is wrong, could you justify why, and if he is not wrong, why does the government present something entirely different as the effects of the recovery package? Madam President! Let's ask the people. This is where Mr. Tynkkynen said. Let's ask the people. We are Finns, Finnish citizens, a small, tenacious country, and we also manage the corona. Korona has hurt us, but we have fought the corona. A Finnish entrepreneur has also fought. It is unfortunate, however, that Finnish entrepreneurs have been supported in Finland the third least in the EU countries, less in Ireland and Croatia only in support of entrepreneurs. When we talk about wanting to revive Europe, I think that Finnish entrepreneurs and Finland should have been revived more in the first place. In my next speech, I would like to say what the citizens have said about this recovery package. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u237	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u238	Madam President! I, too, send my regards from that fresh air. Rarely have I come there at four o’clock while walking, and I listened to the birds’ songs, meaning summer and spring are moving fast, there was a real concert. But let's get on with this more serious matter next. The integration of the European Union is progressing through crises. In times of crisis, integration will be increased, in other words, power will be transferred from the nation states to the Commission. Yesterday, however, we heard loud and clear how the representatives of the government parties and the members of the assembly at least claimed that the Commissioners had no power at all, but here in Finland the ponies then add things to the reports of the Committee on Finance, and then they are apparently read very carefully there in Brussels. You can even think about who's gonna believe it. In any case, however, the EU's own agreements will be reinterpreted and stretched, we all know that. Or what to do about it: it is a breach of the contract. That is something that can be said quite frankly. Under its own agreements, the EU should not take debt by its own name and the Member States should not bear each other's debts. That's what it says in the articles. So we are now doing both, and this is going to happen more and more in the future, even though we know here that we do not want to recognise it. The recovery instrument is becoming a permanent mechanism that will be used over and over again. So there will be an integration leap that will gradually make the EU a fiscal union. That is why the euro area is in a chronic crisis. This has been more or less the case since the beginning. We remember, for example, that Greece was admitted as a member of the euro, even though everyone knew the country's economic ambiguities. Political European ideology was more important than economic stability. The EU's security guarantees rise from time to time. Even now, the adoption of the recovery instrument has been justified by security policy reasons, and that is where Mr Junnila opened this coffin a moment ago. They say Russia will benefit if the aid package goes down. I would say that Russia will also benefit more from a stable and economically unstable euro area with continuous support packages. Most of the countries of the Union are members of NATO, and that is a sufficient security for them to rely on, and if the EU were to provide security, could we trust the Union in this matter, when the EU has proved to be an unreliable partner so many times in other contexts? That is quite a serious question, what is it worth serious thinking about? So is the EU no longer the same Western community of values and free trade as it was in 1994, when Finns were allowed to vote on membership? I think it is quite clear — and this debate, which has now taken place for a few days, proves that it is not. With enlargement, Europe has not been united by the increased diversity of values. Power is concentrated in Brussels, and so-called federal development has taken entirely new rounds. Of course, there will certainly be defenders for the Federation, and we know that in Europe it is already seen as the next step, we here do not understand it yet, or we do not want to understand it. Strong centralism in big issues may be justified, but the EU not only intervenes in big things but also in small things. We know that the aid package is now tied within the EU's seven-year framework, and it is also feared that we would lose agricultural subsidies, among other things, if the package fell. However, the framework and the aid package are two different issues. Experts have already said on many occasions that the framework can be extended, for example, six months ahead under the same conditions as it is currently being implemented, or by some other means, but this is not the decisive factor. So they should not have been tied together in the first place, but perhaps this too has been something of a pressure to put on us to accept the passage of this package. If the package and the frames fall, they will certainly be renegotiated. It's obvious. Madam President! From the point of view of our own constitution, it is questionable that power and budgetary sovereignty are constantly being faded away from the parliament elected by the people. Constitutional experts have pointed this out. This stimulus package will bind Parliament's budgetary powers until 2058. So now we are taking a decision that will bind the hands of future governments for tens of years. How many of us are sitting in this room in the 1950s? [The President : 5 minutes! ] Madam President! The EU is now going in a completely wrong direction. Joint debt relations, persistent breach of own agreements and future tax law for the EU are unacceptable, not simply. The Union needs a total change of direction, and the first step to this is to bring down the aid package under discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u239	Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u240	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I fully understand Mr Tynkkysen's exhaustion in this situation. He has fought here for many days and nights for Finland’s independence, and I greatly appreciate it. I myself have been up here for two days and two nights straight, and that committee meeting is about to begin, but here we go. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u247	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u248	Madam President! Here we have been talking for some time about the government's proposal for an EU support package. And when one of the countries receiving the most aid is Italy, there has also been a lot of arguments from the defenders of the rescue fund that Italy's EUR 250 child allowance for every child up to the age of 21 would have nothing to do with this rescue fund, that they were somehow different decisions or different funds or that the assets of the rescue fund would be used for something else and child benefit Italy would take the money from somewhere else. This is confusing talk, and if the defenders of the package think so sincerely, it is no wonder that people in Italy are laughing on the way to the bank to get the rescue money paid by the Finns. In Italy it is understood that they can, of course, do this by whom to prevent it, because this rescue fund has been created on the basis that only a small minority of its grounds are linked to the corona and, in the future, similar transfer packages will be made under different names. This recovery package has already been heard about planning it for a more permanent approach. These will smooth out the competitive gap between the countries of the Union. In Italy, it has also been noted that, since the French banks have secured a great deal in Italy and Germany does not want Italy to resign from the euro, because its own influence and credibility of the economy in the world would be hit hard, the financier will always be found outside Italy. Italy does not need to put the economy and competitiveness in order, because if France and Germany want to do so, one-off – that is, one-off – rescue packages will come under different names in the future whenever they are needed, and if they are not easily coming, then the euro difference will be glimpsed, and money will already flow. And, of course, the payer is expected to be found in the north again. In order that the aid package does not become a permanent approach, which, for example, the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, has already flashed in his speeches, this aid package must by no means be adopted, but must be rejected. — Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u249	Madam President! Here are the extracts from the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 4/2021, the PS statement: ‘The Government’s proposal is that the Commission adopt a decision on the ownfundssystem whichincludes the EU’s The decision on own resources shall include the criteria for financing the Union budget for the period 2021 to 2027. The total funding at 2018 prices is EUR 1087 billion. The price adjustment mechanism applies a deflator of 2 %, which is likely to increase the value of the recovery package faster than inflation.’ ‘Included in the ownfunds decisionis also the 750 ‘The package is called ‘exceptional’, ‘one-off’ and ‘specific’ in many different contexts. The Finns of Peru feel that it is none of these. The package is also reported to stimulate the entire EU economy and thus be good for the Finnish economy. In our view, the package does not revive the Finnish economy, but rather it is detrimental to our economy. The package will lead to a Union of transfers and debt, and, at its worst, will create more incentivising debt for the Member States.” ‘Finland’s share of the EU’s Multiannual Financial Framework The annual EU membership fees amount to an average of EUR 2.6 billion over the coming financial framework period.’ ‘In the earlier financial period, the growth rate The increasing membership fee is mainly due to the UK EU gap. The loss of membership fee due to the difference should have been compensated by a reduction in Union expenditure. Finland’s long-term objective has been to reduce the net real contribution, and therefore the government failed to negotiate. The Finns Party believes that this goal should have been upheld.” “It is expected that the changes to the ‘The contribution adjustments for Finland’s share of payments are lower than in These payments are for the benefit of the Netherlands, Austria, Sweden, Germany and Denmark. In spite of the change in the system, Finland has paid and, according to the outcome of the negotiations, continues to pay excessive amounts of contributions under the payment correction scheme to the Member States concerned. The Board of Directors shall take measures to abolish the payment correction system so that each Member State’s contribution is determined on the basis of actual financial data.” ‘The traditional sources of own resources financed by As the report states, VAT-based own resource favours countries where VAT avoidance is widespread. The same applies to GDP-based resources. GDP and VAT statistics typically show lower than real values in less developed,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u250	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u251	Madam President! My last speech ended by saying what Mr Tynkkynen said in his speech, asking the people. There have been a lot of messages from the citizens and, at the end of my previous speech, I said that in the next speech I will tell you what people have said. These messages come from the morning, they come late at night, so Finland will supervise: Finland will monitor what we are doing here in Parliament. And just now I received a message encouraging people to work here in Parliament, because we are workers, we work here, we work for the people — the people are paying our wages. ‘If Finland takes care of matters better than others,it cannot be meant that we pay the bills that take care of them poorly. There's taxation elsewhere. We're raising taxes. This goes against and also undermines the moral perception of our citizens and entrepreneurs. After that, I will no longer be a happy taxpayer, but I would rather transfer my business to Estonia. — Respectfully, entrepreneur Risto.’ “The citizen knows that the recovery package,the seiolekorona support package,the seiole one-off. This means that Finland is indebted to the federal state and that it buys EU posts, those jam poles. — Best wishes, Vesa.’ ‘My grandparents, all four of whom were in war, the other Karelians, who took all—the real fearless builders of this Fortunately, they are not seeing this situation when this country is being sold because of personal wishes for EU office and the fear of possible perceived reputational disadvantages. — Timo.’ ‘There has been no need for joint loans Every country is now allowed to borrow as much as it wants, and it is also given, so why must we commit to illegal borrowing and a Union of transfers? Everyone already knows this isn't gonna be a one-time thing. — Entrepreneur Riitta, researcher Meerit.’ “Say hello from the Raven’s Ear! Many have fought and given their lives to this country so that it could never be subjugated again or imposed upon the great power. Now you parliamentarians must not undo what Finns have sacrificed their lives for: freedom and independence, and Finland, built by Finns with hard work. The purpose of this letter is simply to remind you of who you are there for: our Finns. At this historic moment, whose side are you standing on? — Pensioner, mother, grandmother Irma.’ ‘The more important question is whether you are ready to accept that we should transfer from As you well know, the EU is planning a number of new taxes at EU level that would in practice take us to the federal state. This is where the trust fund would open the door. Tuomas.’ “From our children’s side” does not “for the support package. Sanna and family.’ Madam President! The voter in Kainuu writes: “I have grown in the fear of worry and direct women since the last months I don't recognize this country anymore. I have even had to apologize to my teenage child for the fact that the actions of my generation will leave him a country quite different from what my own warring grandfathers proudly left to build for their own generations. I am ashamed of the state of discount on which our beloved country of Finland is on the brink. What can be built upon shame? Nothing that lasts. Respectfully, Kirsi.” Mr President! I wanted to bring these stories here to the Chamber of Parliament so that the message of the people would be transmitted here. I thank everyone who sends us these messages. They're coming. I hope that Members of Parliament will listen to the people, because we work for the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u252	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u253	Madam President! The order in which the recovery package is being handled is a The distribution of money has already been decided, even though the package has not yet been adopted either in us or in eight other countries. It is true that our own voters have been informed of how we can now get money for green transition, climate action, employment measures, fair transition and whatnot. This, of course, is understandable in the run-up to the municipal elections. Let's promise money there and here. Acceptance of the package has been made mandatory, as it were, when the money has already been distributed. That is not the way it is, my government. We are not getting anything out of this package; we are net contributors, and we are getting a small part of our own money back. So this is the debt money that future generations will have to pay back. Moreover, we already have joint European responsibilities, which may also fall to bear, other responsibilities. Finland's hidden responsibilities amount to over 100 billion, and how big will they be if we do not put a stop to this development? So we in Finland are not doing so terribly well at the moment without this means of recovery. The aid package is justified by the corona crisis, which has affected every country's economy, but, as we know, only 30% of the package is distributed directly for reasons of the interest rate. The majority of the allocation keys are therefore not linked to the corona. It is therefore likely that the aid package would have had to be granted without an epidemic. Mr President! There are grounds for resuscitation. Every country's economy has declined more or less as a result of the corona crisis, but recovery can nevertheless be carried out at national level. We do not have to accept the debts of others. National resuscitation is of benefit to all of us. It has even been estimated that, for example, through the massive US national stimulus package of around 5000 billion, it would help Finland more than this EU-wide aid package of 750 billion. All countries are now receiving cheap loans. It's even available at zero. This is the way in which countries should revive, and the majority of this EUR 750 billion aid package goes to the countries of southern Europe, Italy alone, and it has been said that they will then revitalise our exports, but unfortunately only about 5% to 6% of our exports will go to those countries of southern Europe. It is true that we have also massively revived nationally. Companies have also been supported, and municipalities in particular have been given more money than they might have needed because of the interest rate. The municipalities have been overcompensated just before the municipal elections, so this year is still going well, but we will then return to normal life. In other words, we know that municipalities were in very serious difficulties even before the corona, and this is a huge concern for us Finns as to how the municipalities will fare in Finland in the future. We could have supported more companies. In Finland, enterprise subsidies are the lowest in Europe. That is the business sector where the tax money for maintaining municipalities comes from, and that is why it would be important to support companies. Only Ireland and Croatia in Europe have granted less business subsidies than Finland. According to experts, the support package is of little or no use to Finland. It is possible that the package will even undermine our debt sustainability and economic productivity. Instead of a recovery, the real purpose of the package is, unfortunately, simply to move the EU towards a fiscal union. The Government has not presented any impact assessments on the impact of the aid package. Unfortunately, that is the case. Perhaps the government understands that it is not worth doing that, because the results would be unpleasant for the supporters of the aid package, it is visible. The aid package is justified by political reasons. We are told that we are going to have an unprecedented loss of reputation, as we have read in the newspapers if we do not accept the package. What it means in practice, then it is quite another matter, and whether it was an ordered statement, I saw just in time. Mr President! The EU support package has been poorly prepared,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u254	Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u255	Mr President! The Finnish Government has tried to claim over and over again — even yesterday and today on this side of the Chamber — that the recovery of the recovery fund would have a significant impact on Finland. However, the recovery effect of the Fund is in reality either very limited or even negative. Finland’s participation in the fund can at its worst slow down economic growth. Many economic experts have pointed out that the Fund would very likely end up financing non-productive or low-income investments. These could later also become a burden on the Finnish economy. It is therefore very likely that the Fund's resources will end up in unproductive investments. The purpose of the Fund is to revitalise the economies of the euro countries by increasing investment in areas such as climate and the digital economy. The Commission is proud to use the names Next Generation from this fund. It suggests that the aim is to promote ideologically trendy social goals — well, because they happen to be trendy at the moment. However, it is very questionable whether such objectives will genuinely revive the economy. Mr President! The European Union and Finland need more investment to increase internationally competitive production. However, such investments are not affected by a lack of funding. In particular, large companies have been able to easily finance profitable investments by issuing low-interest bonds on international capital markets. The availability of bank financing for small businesses has also improved somewhat. It is difficult to trust that politicians will be able to choose the right investment targets for the economy, or that the Commission will be able to monitor how the money ends up in the right places. It seems worrying that the money will end up in unprofitable and particularly risky investments. Political control of ivory towers only exacerbates this problem, leading to an increase in unproductive investment. On the other hand, non-productive investments would entail considerable costs for the state, banks and companies that financed them. Mr President! The recovery effect of the Fund for Finland is therefore likely to be negative. The Government’s own study concluded in its assessment that the recovery impact of the EU fund on Finland would be very small. This is clear from the Government publications of 2021. On page 288, the report states: ‘The starting estimate is that the growth package That's 0.1 percent, that is, none. Juha Tervala, the CPR researcher and Docent, has stated that ‘The impact of the Northern part’sfinancialreform on the South-South performance is very small because trade between North and South is small. The recovery of the southern part would probably significantly increase production in the south, but the impact on the northern part through exports would be very small.’ According to Tervala, current transfers through the Recovery Fund are likely to reduce demand for export products in the rich countries of the EU. This is because Finland’s exports to rich countries in the EU, such as Sweden and Germany, are considerably higher than to southern Member States, such as Italy or Spain. As recovery funds would be directed towards the southern Member States, increasing demand, while reducing demand in the northern Member States,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u256	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u257	Madam President! Here we are still discussing this government proposal for an EU aid package, in which we are, therefore, giving money to countries in southern Europe, among others, and Spain is one of the major beneficiaries. The government has very much wanted to convince us that the basic income provided by Spain for all its citizens in the summer of interest will not be linked in any way to this recovery fund, or that they are supposed to be different things and that they have been decided at different times and not because of this recovery fund. Ladies and gentlemen, who here, in fact, do not appear to be but the Finns of Peru — neither the Government nor the Coalition Party is interested in defending this package here at this time, at half past six o'clock in the morning — but this is in very profound principle linked to this very recovery fund. There is also a strong desire to convince that the four-day week experiment planned by Spain with a five-day salary would have nothing to do with this recovery fund. Does anyone believe this, someone other than the government? These are expensive experiments, which I am sure you could try in Finland if there were money in the treasury and taxpayers in the country. Of course, when the green shift seems to cost investment and jobs too, it seems strongly that there will be no money in the cash register in Finland in the future. We have traditionally lived with financial responsibility, and that is why we have not set out to implement such plans here. It has been calculated that it is costly in terms of its benefits. Is it not interesting that in the worst corona crisis, and since then in Spain, they have been considered to have four working days of experience at full pay and basic income, in this situation? Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber, you are the only Finns who are still here, and the citizens behind the screen — if anyone is still looking at the transmission at this time or already — this is in very profound principle in this particular recovery fund. Today, Spain, one of the largest net recipients of the recovery fund, is setting an example of the lax economy and moral hazard that this recovery fund will reward. Spain has managed its economy in a mediocre relaxed manner and provided for a basic income of 3 billion a year last summer, just when the corona was strangling the country most. The basic income came into force from the beginning of June 2020 and costs Spanish taxpayers 3,000 million a year, or 3 billion. There is strong confidence that if their own money runs out, then in northern Europe there will be such stupid states and their taxpayers — or not really taxpayers but decision-makers — that they will run out of joy screaming with a bag of money to help. Mr President! As the recommended time runs out, I will not go on any longer, but I say that this aid package is not to be approved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u258	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u259	Mr President! I will continue with the speech that was not completed in the previous speech: The traditional sources of own resources financed by the EU budget are those based on gross national income and value added tax. As the report states, VAT-based own resource favours countries where VAT avoidance is widespread. The same applies to GDP-based resources. GDP and VAT statistics typically show lower than real values in less developed countries with lower GDP. Own resources therefore include an unintentionally built-in cross-border transfer mechanism. This is a system characteristic, which is due to the fact that the Member States are too different. It is essential to understand that when planning possible new own resources, the diversity of countries is understood. The new own resources involve considerable risks. Perhaps a better way of financing the EU could be to improve the calculation methods for traditional own resources and to tighten the tax bases. Therefore, every Member State in the EU must be obliged to ensure that VAT and gross national income are in line with the reality. The plastic allowance is not particularly harmful to Finland, as the method of calculation favours countries that recycle plastics. Plastic reserves have been made easier for the poorest EU countries. The Finns of Peru are opposed to unjustified payment relief. The purpose of the plastic resource is to raise new own resources for the EU and generate positive environmental impacts and not to act as a new cross-border transfer mechanism. As such, the new plastic reserve will decrease Finland's annual membership fees by approximately EUR 30 million. The EU Commission has provided basic information only on the plastic resource, and there are no sufficient estimates of its impact on Finland’s competitiveness, employment or tax revenue. For other new assets — the carbon tariff mechanism, the digital tax, the auction income for emissions trading under the reformed proposal, the financial transaction tax and the common consolidated corporate tax base — all the information and impact assessments required for the preliminary stock formation are completely missing. Even if the problems that already exist with the new own resources are resolved, it is unclear whether all Member States would agree to their introduction. To finance the recovery instrument, Member States will have to choose between clearly higher membership fees and poorly planned new own resources. The new proposals to be submitted by June 2021 are carbon duty, digital tax and the extension of emissions trading. The introduction of a digital tax in the EU alone entails risks and naturally excludes large digital giants. Solutions should therefore be sought for the preparation of OECD Pillars 1 and 2. By June 2024, the Commission should submit proposals for a financial transaction tax and a new consolidated corporate tax base. Both proposals are problematic for various reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u260	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u261	Madam President! Congressman Petri Huru, you just looked at the clock. I'm looking at the clock, too. It's 5:30. At that stone’s throw, while working at the hospital at Laakso as a night nurse, I went out for the morning tour at this time. 15 years of night work, I know what those mornings are. That is why I have been extremely disappointed by the way the Finnish Government has treated a Finnish nurse in Finland. It hasn't been revived. In Finland, the nurse who has revived those who are being treated has not been revived. On the other hand, Europe has understood the value of a Finnish carer, provided an interest rate supplement very, very much in many countries when it said that if there are no nurses, people will die. Now the Finnish Government is mossing towards Europe and expresses its desire to revive Europe. Finland fell from a tree. I support the protests and statements made by Mr Jussi Halla-aho. I will read these statements made by the True Finns in their protest: Declaration 1: ‘The Commission requires that the government categorically prohibits arrangements to increase intra-EU transfers of income and financial solidarity.’ Declaration 2: ‘The government requires that the nationalrequirement system be made ready for deep disruptions in Statement 3: ‘The Commission requires government to promote the design and establishment of Declaration 4: ‘The Commission requires the government to promote the creation of an EU-level mechanism for Declaration 5: ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify whether Finland is economically unprofitable as a member of the European Declaration 6: ‘The Commission requires that the membership of the Monetary Union is assessed as being of a net economic Declaration 7: ‘The Commission requires that the government prepares itself tofail the ratification of its own resources andrecovery instruments in one of the Member Declaration 8: ‘The Commission requires that,in the design of the EU’s resources,Finland does not accept new payments to the business Mr President! There would be a lot to revive in Finland. It could also be a stimulus for the government to understand what is most urgent about this corona crisis. If there is little money, we must prioritize it and we must spend it wisely. We are here to talk about an important matter and defend the money of the Finns. During the last parliamentary term, we had long discussions on social reform. There were defenders of Finnish money, too, but now this season... — Mr Immonen, you told me that the Constitutional Committee is about to begin, and did I understand correctly that there is a debate on social reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u265	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u266	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Juvonen, for the heavy words. The parliamentary debate and voting on the so-called'recovery instrument' of the EU now under discussion are very important for each of us in Finland. I would say that these decisions, which we are about to take in this Chamber, are the most important decisions of the post-war period for the Finnish people and will also affect the far future. The Finnish people already know that it is a small part of money and in reality Finland does not need a support package. Let's hope that's known in this courtroom as well. Last year, with debt money, we supported our own economy at national level by 20 billion. We do not need our own money through the EU, a good EUR 2 billion from some 7 billion of our own contributions, which would be provided by the recovery instrument. Financial expert Sixten Korkman crystallized 1.5. In newsextra, why Finland is included in the package. It is a question of solidarity, of solidarity, in which it is our job to save Italy and the countries of southern Europe. According to Korkman, their affairs are so bad that if the aid package does not come, there will be a crisis and it will affect us as well. At the same time, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi announced that the fall of the package would threaten the future of Europe. According to him, the collapse of the package would also threaten and prevent deeper fiscal integration or the creation of future packages in the future. So it is already taken for granted that those packages will come in the future, right after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u267	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u273	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u275	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u277	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u279	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u281	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u283	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u285	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u287	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u289	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u291	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u293	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u295	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u297	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u299	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u301	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u303	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u305	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u307	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u311	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u315	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u317	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u319	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u323	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u327	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u329	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u331	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u333	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u335	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u339	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u341	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u345	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u347	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u349	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u351	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u355	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u357	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u361	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u365	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u367	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u369	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u373	Congressman Kotiaho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u375	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u377	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u382	The sitting adjourned at 1.51 p.m. and the second item in the order of business will now be resumed. A proposal has been put on the table and it has been supported. The matter has already been put on the table at the plenary session on 12 May 2021. It is now up to us to decide whether to continue this debate in plenary or to put it on the table. Do you want to talk about putting on the table? — — — — Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u384	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u386	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u388	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u390	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u392	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u396	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u398	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u402	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u404	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u406	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u408	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u414	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u420	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u430	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u432	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u434	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u436	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u475	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u493	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u494	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u495	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u496	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u497	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u498	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u499	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u500	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u501	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u502	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u503	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u504	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u505	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u506	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u507	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u508	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u509	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u510	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u511	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u512	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u513	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u514	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u515	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u516	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u517	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u518	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u519	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u520	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u521	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u522	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u523	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u524	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u525	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u526	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u527	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u528	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u529	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u530	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u531	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u532	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u533	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u534	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u535	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u536	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u537	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u538	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u539	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u540	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u541	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u542	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u543	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u544	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u545	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u546	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u547	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u548	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u549	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u550	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u551	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u552	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u553	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u554	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u555	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u556	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u557	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u558	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u559	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u560	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u561	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u562	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u563	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u564	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u565	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u566	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u567	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u568	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u569	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u570	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u571	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u572	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u573	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u574	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u575	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u576	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u577	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u578	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u579	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u580	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u581	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u582	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u583	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u584	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u585	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u586	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u587	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u588	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u589	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u590	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u591	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u592	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u593	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u594	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u595	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u596	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u597	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u598	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u599	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u600	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u601	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u602	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u603	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u604	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u605	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u606	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u607	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u608	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u609	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u610	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u611	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u612	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u613	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u614	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u615	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u616	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u617	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u618	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u619	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u620	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u621	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u622	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u623	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u624	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u625	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u626	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u627	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u628	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u629	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u630	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u631	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u632	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u633	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u634	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u635	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u636	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u637	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u638	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u639	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u640	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u641	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u642	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u643	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u644	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u645	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u646	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u647	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u648	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u649	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u650	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u651	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u652	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u653	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u654	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u655	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u656	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u657	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u658	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u659	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u660	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u661	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u662	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u663	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u664	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u665	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u666	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u667	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u668	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u669	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u670	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u671	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u672	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u673	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u674	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u675	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u676	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u677	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u678	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u679	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u680	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u681	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u682	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u683	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u684	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u685	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u686	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u687	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u688	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u689	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u690	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u691	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u692	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u693	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u694	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u695	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u696	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u697	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u698	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u699	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u700	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u701	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u702	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u703	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u704	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u705	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u706	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u707	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u708	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u709	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u710	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u711	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u712	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u713	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u714	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u715	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u716	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u717	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u718	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u719	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u720	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u721	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u722	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u723	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u724	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u725	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u726	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u727	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u728	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u729	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u730	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u731	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u732	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u733	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u734	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u735	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u736	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u737	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u738	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u739	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u740	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u741	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u742	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u743	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u744	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u745	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u746	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u747	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u748	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u749	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u750	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u751	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u752	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u753	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u754	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u755	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u756	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u757	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u758	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u759	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u760	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u761	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u762	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u763	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u764	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u765	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u766	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u767	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u768	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u769	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u770	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u771	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u772	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u773	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u774	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u775	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u776	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u777	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u778	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u779	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u780	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u781	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u782	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u783	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u784	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u785	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u786	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u787	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u788	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u789	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u790	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u791	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u792	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u793	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u794	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u795	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u796	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u797	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u798	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u799	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u800	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u801	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u802	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u803	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u804	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u805	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u806	Mr President! The seriousness of this situation is demonstrated by the fact that we Finns, who are, in principle, European and Euro-critical and are trying to shed light on the problems of the euro and the EU for Finns, have also brought very pro-euro representatives and citizens to this common front. The recovery package is therefore not in the interests of the European Union in the eyes of the Euro critic or the pro-EU. If you thought that some fact would move the supporters of the package as well. The strangest thing is that criticism has been labeled as an ass. Such action is likely to kill, or at least suppress, the debate. No matter what our party may feel about it, it is not just a good culture of discussion that can be used to reject proper criticism from people other than the Finns of Finland. It cannot be an EU policy to fanatically support everything that comes out of it. The Finns of Peru have been called Impivaaraans and have been hinted that we would dream of some of them at a time of stagnation. But look around: have we not, in recent years, also lived in this period of stagnation in Finland, precisely because of the European Union? The EU is a vulnerable, bureaucratic, non-substantial central body, and I claim that, in its desire for more power and more and more restrictions on business and agricultural life, for example, the EU will kill our agility and activity in the long run. In Finland, when any law is enacted or action is planned, you always think about what the EU rules say and what the EU thinks about this, and then you read those directives and regulations like the devil's Bible. The EU is where it should not be and is missing where it should be larger. A good example of where the EU should not be is the idea and inventor of the recovery package currently under discussion. Instead, the EU has closed its eyes to an avalanche of migrants, which has already led European countries to more or less chaos. In France, the situation is becoming acute because of a poor immigration policy. In Sweden, politics is changing. Denmark has already made national decisions in the right direction. Even terrorism has not been controlled by the EU. It is mainly the head of Islamists who are applauded, the freedom of expression and the accusations of racism against people who speak of problems. When the Korona crisis came, there was a search for solidarity when protective equipment was hoarded in front of Finland as well, so that it just happened. However, the borders remained open to the corona, as in 2015 they remained open to immigrants. It is only far too late to respond to crises with some miraculous tunings and the distribution of money. Individual problems are socialised into everyone's problems and common problems are left untreated or answered with an open spike from net contributors to net beneficiaries. And if anyone justifies the EU recovery package with security and peace, say that I said: a common debt does not guarantee it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-12-ps-57.u807	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented on the 9th of the order of business. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the report by Mr StVM 8/2021 is decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
