ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u2	Mr President! We all know that corona time has been a very challenging time for everyone, but it has also been a very challenging time for students: distance learning, study delays, increased mental stress, nausea and livelihood challenges. This government proposal, which is therefore changing the Student Support Act so as to ensure that the student does not lose his or her right to student loan credit or student loan reduction because he or she has not been able to complete all the studies required for the degree within the prescribed period for reasons related to the interest rate pandemic, is needed. As the Committee on Culture and Education rightly states in its report, the well-being and well-being of students must be actively monitored and the students must receive the support they need in a timely manner. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs also raises the important issue that student loan recipients need to be adequately informed about the flexibility of the student loan and the end of the flexibility period. But all in all, a good and necessary presentation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u3	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u4	Mr President! You have to thank the government when you have reason to. I agree with Mr Pelkonen here earlier that this amendment of the law is excellent and certainly takes account of this very difficult situation for students. After all, many people have also found themselves in a difficult financial situation during these distance studies, and work has become more difficult, and the acquisition of additional income has become more difficult. In many ways, life has been very difficult for students during the corona period, and I am very pleased that the government is now taking this into account. At the same time, when I say this, I would also like to say that I hope that the government will also consider these student income limits as a condition for study aid. It is now the case that Finland is lagging behind the other Nordic countries in relation to them. At us, the student can earn approximately EUR 12,000 a year without losing the student's study money, which is also needed during the studies. In the other Nordic countries we are closer to EUR 20000 per year, and yet, while the cost level is roughly the same in these other countries, it would be desirable for Finland to raise this income threshold closer to EUR 20000, as is the case in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, i.e. that much could be earned without losing this student money. But it is good that with this presentation we are already making progress in improving the situation of students.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u5	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u6	Mr President! This bill, as Mr Kauma has said, is very welcome, and there is cause for commendation. This relates to such a whole that has been implemented during the year of the interest rate through the so-called flexibility laws, in which society reacts rapidly to a changing situation. We have been flexible in enforcement, recovery, pension payments, tax payments, and this is how we have ensured that society can cope better with this interest period. And what is very welcome is this flexibility with regard to students, which guarantees and ensures that they will also survive this difficult time and that they will not have any unreasonable difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u7	Thank you. — Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u8	Mr President! This Government's proposal for a law amending the Student Support Act is very important and necessary, and I would also like to thank the Government for that. The interest has touched us all. From a baby to a grandfather, we have experienced a corona, both fears and the way tomorrow will be rebuilt, and especially among students, this issue has been very much present. Distance studies have set their own challenges, and students may not have had all the support they needed. That is why it is important for us to understand and be flexible in those difficult situations. In particular, it is extremely important for economic success that students should not be penalised for having been on top of us, but should be understood and given time and opportunity to succeed and continue their studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u9	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-11-ps-75.u10	Mr President! As chairman of the committee, I am telling you about this report because I did not get to present it at first reading. In short, the committee supports the government's proposal to amend the Student Subsidy Act in such a way as to ensure that the person does not lose his right to a student loan credit or student loan reduction, i.e. so-called student loan bonds, because he has not been able to complete all the studies required for the degree within the time limit for reasons related to the covid-19 pandemic. The proposal relates to the third draft amending budget, and the proposed amendment will increase the government's credit for student loans by an estimated EUR 5 million this year. The estimated increase in expenditure next year is around EUR 10 million and in 23 years approximately EUR 5 million. The proposal is no longer expected to have significant effects from 2024 onwards. The expenditure increases for the years 2022 and 2023 have been taken into account in the budgetary plan. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the government proposal without amendment. This is a question of the flexibility of student loans taking into account the delay in studies during the interest period. That is why we are in favour of it in our report, and it is also a question of extending student loan lines. It is very important that this law is now being extended and flexible in these situations, because this has been a very significant change in the lives of students and it is not appropriate for the financial situation of students to deteriorate very much as a result of the interest rate. Thank you for this excellent debate in committee.
