ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u2	Madam Speaker! This is another proposal to respond to this corona pandemic, to which we will have to react more strongly this week. We will return to a little more restrictive measures and a quieter life. This is about private roads and how decisions are taken there — yes, other things too, but perhaps the most interesting thing in general is this decision-making on private roads. Here too, with this good government proposal and a good, close report from the Committee on Transport and Communications, it is now possible to have remote meetings in the roads as well. This is certainly the digital leap that the entire Finnish society has taken under the circumstances of this corona pandemic. President! Private roads are very important in Finland. At this earlier stage, when this proposal was being discussed, it was said that even here in Uusimaa, southern Finland, many people and companies are only based on these private roads. They are not just roads in a particular house or in a particular cottage, but they are of more general importance, and I would like to say that, during this parliamentary term, not only many other good investments have been made in private roads, but also in private roads and the role of the centre has not been very small, say this, to increase state aid for private roads. Of course, there has been some support from other government groups and, in my opinion, also from the opposition. When we talk about distance connections, Mr President, I am very concerned about how we can make the distance education in our schools work, which is what we are going to do even more now. This has been a very tough challenge for Finnish teachers and students at different levels, certainly a bigger challenge than for people in associations or the faculties, which have also been discussed in these exceptional proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u3	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u4	Mr President! I have also spoken in this Chamber on the fact that I am somewhat opposed to this digitalization, in which the possibility of a distance meeting is now, in fact, about to become a practice. However, in this point, when we talk about road cooperatives and private road management practices, this is a good example of where truly this kind of distance meeting is meaningful in many situations — I refer to the previous speech in that there is often a problem of sparsely populated areas and there is a lot of holiday settlements in Finland. After all, Finns have a very wide range of this double housing, when it makes sense that when road cooperatives and road associations meet, so can you also participate from a distance. Yes, these forms of meeting make sense on a case-by-case basis, but in this case participation is possible. Of course, it is important to recognise that, when we are present at the meeting, as is the case with this particular situation, it is a very different matter to work in this way, physically being present from a distance, and in that respect I would like to take some care about the enthusiasm we now have for this distance work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u5	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u6	Mr President! We have had this same debate here with Mr Kiljune on a number of exceptional laws, where these opportunities for remote meetings have been introduced in connection with the issue of corona pandemic. I think this is a very valuable debate, and I very much appreciate Mr Kiljunen's point of view that mere distance can bring legal challenges. In my opinion, for example, there are few different views about elections, how elections are conducted, for example, in the institutions of an association, how they are done at a distance and how, if there is a closed flag election, it is done in a really closed and fair manner and that it does not pose any danger of actions of blame. And there's this social side. Yes, such community and doing things together will certainly be reduced if you are always just away from Teams and Zoom. However, in a win-win scenario, I see that this is a good thing, that it is possible to participate in different communities and that civil society can operate more at a distance. That's a good thing more than a bad thing. Perhaps I do not see the disadvantages as great as Mr Kiljunen, although I appreciate his point of view. President! Finally, one person in this corona era said quite well that all routine things can be handled at a distance, but what is difficult with remote connections is when you have to think, innovate, invent, create something new. It's hard out there by the black balls on the computer screen. And then the other is that if difficult things have to be solved, difficult things have to be decided, it is difficult with remote connections. I think it had good practical wisdom for what is done remotely, which will be done live in the future when this corona hopefully soon ends.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u7	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u8	Madam President! As Mr Kurvinen said in his first speech, this proposal is part of this corona epidemic, and I would like, if the President would allow me, to make a few timely comments. The fight against interest in Finland, the eradication of the epidemic, is not a government-opposition issue, and I am very pleased that yesterday, for example, all parties and parliamentary groups together have identified these topical, daily challenges and supported the Government's action. There is no point in making such a party-political issue in any way, because there is, of course, nothing in any party's programme about the use of masks or limit tests or pre-tests at the border and so on. However, the reason why I wanted to take the floor in this context is that I find the situation in Finland very alarming at the moment. A few hours ago, we received word that 720 new infections have been detected. I have been sympathetic and encouraging to the government's efforts to combat the interest rate, because I believe that the government has done a good job in combating the interest rate in Finland, and when there was a little disagreement, I have tried to spar, tighten, encourage. In this context, we must ask whether the measures announced by the government yesterday are sufficient. I feel — I am not a doctor, even less an epidemiologist — that they are not enough. We have to, so I understand, introduce a genuine lock in Finland, make it long enough — I don't know if three weeks, whether a month is required, whether five weeks is required — and try to do this with an effective, targeted, very tough lock to defeat enough of this virus. I fear that the line that has now been adopted and extended, in which we squirm, squirm and squirm, will lead to a prolonged situation and will not sufficiently overcome the virus while we wait for vaccination coverage. I urge the government to reflect on this issue, of course, together with all the parties. Finally, I would like to say that yesterday, at the A-talk, there was a debate about these preliminary tests that would be required when they came to Finland, that it is strange that in all other countries they can be demanded but apparently not in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u9	At this point, I would remind Members that we have a law on private roads under discussion. I very much understand this need to talk about corona and the acute situation, but next week we will have a good chance of it and, for example, we will not have ministers present in this situation, so it may be more fruitful to visit when we have more members of the committees concerned and also ministers involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u10	Mr President! A good word of warning that we are not starting a corona debate here. Perhaps only one sentence can be said to say that, at least as a representative of the government party, I appreciate the fact that we can all work together now to defeat this corona-guest, and that is the most valuable thing here. Whether the measures are sufficient or not, we have to discuss them, we do not know exactly what they are. I can tell you that we have a number of diseases, not just the corona virus, there are diseases on the mental side and then there is the nursing debt. This is a big package. But these private roads. The main content of this proposal is, therefore, to allow for these remote meetings. I will say just one more thing to that too, which is essential: it does not only involve legal problems, to which Mr Kurvinen referred at these remote meetings, but it is also a concentration of power. Whenever we are in a situation at a distance, that power is concentrated on those who prepare and hold that meeting. And when we are in difficult decision-making situations — even in road cooperatives sometimes there are — we must always bear in mind that it does not happen in the same way as the interaction that exists in the democratic decision-making that is present, but when we are at a distance, it is less appropriate, and that is precisely the main reason why I do not encourage these remote meetings other than when it is, of course, a matter of urgency for us to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u11	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u12	Madam Speaker! We're not in Question Time right now. We have no ministers present. Indeed, there is no broad debate on the issue of interest rate measures that is fruitful here, but when this proposal relates to the fight against corona and Mrs Zyskowicz made a very good, thought-provoking and visionary speech here, I would like to thank the opposition groups, on behalf of the parliamentary group in the centre, for the way and how the interest rate and interest rate measures have been managed in Finland. It is extremely valuable that yesterday, for example, we had the leadership of all the parliamentary parties in the House of Regulation and there was a moderate, constructive, good spirit. It is very valuable that the government openly and sincerely informs the opposition in such a national crisis, and it is even more valuable that the opposition does not go into any small policy or party policy with such a national crisis. I would like to thank Mrs Zyskowicz for her very constructive speech and her, the party she represents and all opposition groups for their constructive attitude throughout the corona crisis. Today, as the head of the central parliamentary group, we also made public the announcement that we are truly grateful and in good spirits for the spirit with which the opposition groups have acted in this midst of the corona crisis. Let's keep going like this. These difficulties are great, as Mr Zyskowicz said: the terrible levels of infection. We have to prepare for even worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u13	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u14	Madam President! I very much welcome this draft law before us. It is important that meetings specifically related to the management of private roads can be held remotely at a time when this diversity is being sought, and at a time when these people may live in different parts of Finland, even abroad. That is why I think it is very good that this legislation in this respect is becoming permanent, i.e. in force, after this period of interest. I must say that I personally do not share Mr Kiljunen's concern about these remote meetings and their democratic nature. I myself have considered these remote meetings to be very effective. In exactly the same way, in my opinion, they are capable of interacting with these close meetings. Of course it is nice to meet people too, but I think that these things can also be done at remote meetings. In fact, the only thing that comes to my mind about this bill is why it was not brought before, why it was only at this point in time that this corona epidemic was introduced. At the same time, I am concerned that we are still in a situation where there is still no possibility of these remote meetings in the religious trust bodies, because that law is not yet in force, although it has been dealt with by Parliament. I'd like it to go very quickly now, in that stroller of the administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u18	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 4/2021, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u19	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. — Representative Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u20	Honorable Madam Speaker! The Baltic Sea and our water bodies must be protected regardless of the season, including in snowy winters. The Baltic Sea is still one of the most polluted marine areas, despite major conservation efforts. Korona has not changed the fact that we must take care of the environment together. The interest rate is slightly comparable to the waste, dangerous substances that we are unfortunately still putting in the beloved Baltic Sea. The sea knows no borders, as does the corona, and it is important that we work together across party boundaries to protect the Baltic Sea and at the same time protect nature and people. Mr President! The pouring of snow into the sea causes damage to nature and humans. Waste, garbage and ingredients poured into the sea with snow are widely transported through ocean currents. Waste in the sea, such as microplastics and heavy metals, may never disappear from the sea. In the legislative initiative under consideration, I propose that the environmentally unsustainable dumping of dirty snow into the sea and other water bodies be prohibited by amending Article 18 of the Environmental Protection Act. The prohibition in paragraph 2 of this Article concerns not only the pouring into the sea of a small amount of snow. Thus, the water law provides for the placing of dredging mass in the water area. In the current legislation, the pouring of snow into the sea is outside the prohibition on dumping waste or other substances into the sea, i.e. it is not prohibited. In my initiative, I propose to reverse this exception, as it were, by banning the pouring of snow into the sea. I would like to point out here that the bill proposes that a slight pouring of snow into the sea would be excluded from the ban I have proposed. In other words, the restriction will continue to allow, for example, the private person’s own or leisure residence to pour clean snow into the sea by snow column or other similar means. Just a few words about my hometown of Helsinki. The pouring of dirty snow into the sea has been a disgrace to Helsinki. — — — — There aren't many people in this room right now. I hope they're listening in the study. — Finding land dumps is very difficult in Helsinki, I understand that, after all, I am a long-term City Councillor in Helsinki. But I do not think that this is a sustainable argument for continuing to soil our own waters, the shores of the sea. I would like to say here that, if this debate comes up, the City Council of Helsinki has already stated that snow should not be poured into the sea, but a sustainable solution has not yet been found in Helsinki. That's why with my initiative, I want to tighten this up. I say that there is only one place left where that snow is poured into the sea, but I think that one is too much. Experts at the Helsinki Environment Agency have said that snow should be poured on the ground, but environmental authorities can only recommend, because the legislation currently does not allow that snowfall to be banned. I would also like to say that I have been active and have been involved in finding a sustainable alternative. I have encouraged the Ministry of the Environment to act to find a national solution to this and to ban the pouring of dirty snow into the sea. Well, this is what the Minister of the Environment picked up and reported. Unfortunately, the investigation was delayed, and it was only completed last October. It stated that, since the problem only concerns Helsinki, no action will be taken. Other municipalities examined in the survey have already banned snow driving into the sea, i.e. Espoo, Turku and Oulu. And when I follow a lot of Nordic politics, I know that in Sweden, Naturvårdsverket has banned the pouring of snow into the sea and lakes. The same has been done in Oslo and Copenhagen. And why is it done? Because the snow carries a lot of harmful substances, many dangerous substances and garbage into our waters, the world's waters. In its report, the Ministry of the Environment stated that national legislation was not provided for but that local means should be used. The means were such that the reception site of snow should be turned into an environmental permit and monitoring obligations should be imposed to view and control the resulting littering problem. I do not consider them sufficient myself and I regret that they have not progressed either. For a long time, the Ely Centre has prepared an opinion on the need for an environmental permit application for snowfall sites in Helsinki. Work has been ongoing for several years and has not been completed. Are the snowless winters, then, to blame for putting the matter aside? I believe that progress should be made in this area, and that is why I have taken this initiative a long time ago, but because of the interest rate, it has been delayed and I welcome the fact that we have actually got it here in the Chamber. Mr President! I believe that progress should be made in this area. I am absolutely sure that the capital will also find sustainable ways to ensure that snow does not need to be driven into the sea. I have found that there is also an innovation competition in Helsinki to find solutions to this. It is not a matter for Parliament, of course, but I think that it is a matter for Parliament to have this law laid down, which, according to the article of the Environmental Protection Act, would in fact prohibit any city or municipality in Finland from driving dirty snow into the sea. Mr President! This bill is indeed part of what I believe must be done in this parliamentary term to protect our national property, clean waters and the extremely sensitive Baltic Sea, which is indeed our own sea. Its purity is linked to the well-being of all of us Finns, to our economy, to tourism, to many other things, and I suggest that this bill will be discussed by Parliament. And I really hope that it will be adopted during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u21	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u22	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Sarkomaa for this bill, which would prohibit the non-minor pouring of snow into the sea. This issue has been on the agenda on many occasions and it is good that this issue is being discussed. The placement of snow in the sea will take place during every snowy winter. The environmental load of the operation is beyond doubt. According to a recently published study by the Ministry of the Environment, the biggest nuisance is marine waste and microplastics — as is also stated in the bill. The Baltic Sea and its ecosystem must be protected together. Who of us would like to see several thousand kilos of garbage and estimated over 50 million microplastic particles transported into our water every year through one landfill? By raising the issue of malpractice, we can change the matter, and that has already changed. I am proud that Oulu has already made a ban. Helsinki has one snowfall site that ends in the sea. According to a study by the Ministry of the Environment, environmental protection regulations and a ban on littering the Waste Act allow, if necessary, interference in the placing of snow in the sea. Thank you, Mr Sarkomaa, for your proposal to tighten up and tighten up the city of Helsinki in order to protect the Baltic Sea. Fortunately, the City of Helsinki is willing to improve the situation. It has implemented an innovation competition aimed at finding solutions to the problem at hand. Environmental damage is reduced, for example, by means of a cloaking boom solution that prevents waste, plastics and pollution from spreading to the sea. One of the experiments is also the snow-melting container operating in district heat. Thank you to Mr Sarkomaa for raising this debate on the environment and for making a good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u23	We now have a situation in which the large committee does not have a meeting, that is, if there are no further comments after Mr Sarkomaa's speech, then we will go to this sitting, but then I will no longer give the floor, but I will suspend the matter if there are any. — — — — Next up, Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u24	Mr President! I think that the reasons and arguments for this initiative are quite appropriate. It is true that pouring snow into the sea causes damage when a lot of harmful substances and debris, such as plastic and construction waste, end up in the sea. The snow poured into the sea also contains asphalt, roadmarking masses, paint residues and tyre dust waste. As we know, in the capital region, for example, the snow is mixed with a considerable amount of substances harmful to nature and humans. There is so much soot in the snow, rock dust from stud rings, pins from tires, microplastics, and exhaust particles from cars — and, of course, garbage thrown into the street, animal dumps, cigarette butts, and so forth. This is a problem that cannot be kept silent. The Baltic Sea and our waters must be protected. Finding land dumps is, of course, challenging, for example, here in Helsinki, but it is not a sustainable argument to soil our waters and beaches; it is more a question of will. On these grounds, I consider the concern of this bill to be well-founded, and I thank Mr Sarkomaa for this proposal. However, as the spirit of the bill is, this would not apply to the individual’s affections — that is, snow that is to say, even if it is knocked off its own property — and I also think that this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u25	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u26	Madam Speaker! Representative Sari Sarkomaa and two other Members of Parliament have made a very good legislative initiative. This snowing in the winter, which apparently occurs most prominently or most famously in Helsinki — I am not sure that some other municipalities are doing it — is such a wider disgrace in Finland. I would say that this is even something that has led some Finns to oppose sensible measures against climate change, sound environmental policy and other environmental and nature protection. It does not matter to the common sense of Finnish peasants and citizens that as we try to further improve our harsh environmental and natural criteria and are at the forefront of all climate action, this kind of owl happens year after year in Finland. This is such a broader issue, for which we should do things, and I really hope that this issue will end and be dealt with, either with this good initiative by Mr Sarkomaa or perhaps with a more hasty and swifter government proposal, as we all know, without reducing the value of this initiative at all, that the best way of doing this is through a government proposal. And I hope that from this Chamber now the greetings will go to the Ministry of the Environment and the government of the whole country that this matter should be dealt with. Of course, President-in-Office, as a country boy from the South, I am a little surprised that the City Council of Helsinki can do nothing about this. We have a sea far enough from Kauhava that we cannot snow there, but I can say, as Vice-President of the Council, that we would find ways of implementing things for officials and operators under our authority that this would not happen. Well, Helsinki is a big case, but hopefully in April municipal elections in a month's time the Helsinki people will also take a stand on this. The city centre at the national level and the Helsinki district of the city centre — our candidates are opposed to this absurd activity that snow is pushed into the sea. Among other things, Petri Honkonen, Vice-President of the Centre, put a written question about this a year and a half ago, which will put an end to this, and hopefully the city council will become a little sharper in recent years here in Helsinki. Mr President! When we are dealing with a legislative initiative by Members of Parliament, I would like to raise one point of principle at this end: As far as I am concerned, we in this House – in this Parliament, where I have had the honour of representing the constituency of Vaasa for almost six years – have overemphasized the process of citizens' initiatives and we are under-emphasised by brilliant legislative initiatives by parliamentarians. I read through this bill quickly: very well prepared, very good arguments, very well mentioned these small snowfalls and others. Then we have such citizens' initiatives, which have been made by really snorting. They have received 50,000 online bank signatures, and then they are processed here so that there are all the top experts. The fact is, Mr President, as we all know, that, on the basis of committee guides and parliamentary gentlemen's rules, this initiative will rest and probably rest until the end of the parliamentary term. Somehow we should develop this system in such a way that the legislative initiatives of the Members of Parliament can be dealt with in greater depth. However, we have all come here with the support of tens of thousands of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u27	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-26-ps-16.u28	Madam President! Protection of the Baltic Sea, protection of water bodies is our common concern. Very often it is thought that this is such a small thing that we do not do this, but small droplets, small streams become a great stream and eventually the sea. The protection of waters is quite new. Even back in the '70s, a lot of people thought you could put anything in the water. It was like a dump. Water protection has progressed rapidly but not quickly enough. I am not a City Councillor of Helsinki, I am a Member of Parliament of Helsinki, and I say that the City Council of Helsinki has decided that this snowfall must be abandoned, but the Environment Director of Helsinki has told me that the city has not found a way to give up the felling because it looks at the whole thing: it is considered that if trucks drive, it will become more emissions to the climate and has not found a sustainable way. I think this is a good thing for us to look at the whole thing, but I do not understand that we have not found a way. There is an innovation competition, and I hope that this will proceed. I therefore made a bill to tighten up Helsinki, but also because of it, as Mr Kurvin said here, that when this is not prohibited, it is possible that dirty snow is being driven into the sea somewhere in Finland. We really need to get rid of it now. Sustainable solutions must be found, traffic must run smoothly in Helsinki, and when there is a lot of snow, snow must be drawn from the streets and streets must be safe, but it must be done in an environmentally friendly way. Mr President! I very much welcome the fact that the group in the centre has said that you support this and it is possible that the government will bring a bill — that would be excellent. I also think it is important that the legislative initiatives of the MPs should receive the attention and consideration they deserve. That is why we have come here, we are in the opposition or the government, so that we can take these things forward. That is why I would like to thank the President for allowing us to make these speeches again, and I would like to say that, if you are going to put forward legislative proposals, I would be thinking of a fine for putting out cigarette butts. They are the most common garbage in the world: trillions of cigarette butts, 3.5 billion in Finland. They go into the sea, they are plastic, they have carcinogens and they have plastic that never disappears, and those cigarette butts end up on our plates, in the food chain. So there would be another environmental protection initiative for the Baltic Sea. - Thank you.
