ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Henriksson, Varsågod.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! We are dealing with a temporary amendment to the electoral law, under which institutional voting would be carried out in the municipal elections of 2021 in the garrison of the Defence Forces garrison and in the border guard garrison training units. In the case of an institution vote, persons entitled to vote for military service or voluntary military service by women could vote in these garrisons and units. According to the Constitution, it is the task of the public authorities to promote the individual’s ability to participate in social activities and to influence his/her decision-making. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the conscripts' voting opportunities are realised during the corona pandemic in municipal elections by bringing the possibility of voting to those entitled to vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u3	Mr President! It is very important to secure the possibility for the conscripts to vote in municipal elections also in the prevailing pandemic conditions. In order to achieve this, it is appropriate to include the garrison in the electoral law list of special polling stations in Finland at the municipal elections of this year. This will allow conscripts to exercise their right to vote in their own departments in a health-proof manner. Mr President! In general, it is also very important to make it as easy as possible for young people to participate in social decision-making. The temporary amendment to the electoral law is a concrete step towards lowering the voting threshold, which can also encourage many young people to exercise their right to vote in future elections. It is essential for the legitimacy of our democratic system that young people continue to be interested in exercising their right to vote, and hopefully they will be interested in various ways of participating in social decision-making. It is also very important that conscripts should continue to exercise their right to vote in their own garrison during their duty to carry out their arms.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u4	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u5	Mr President! According to the Government's proposal, the Defence Forces' garrison and the Border Guard's military training units would exceptionally be subject to an institutional vote at future municipal elections. So far, the garrison has not been able to vote in the garrison, and this proposal is also intended to be temporary. However, a long-term effort has been made to facilitate the vote of the conscripts, including the Federation of Armours. There is constant concern about the turnout of young people. The military service is usually performed when a young person reaches the age of 18, and the elections during the service are thus the first to allow the young person to vote. According to the joint statement by eight political youth organisations, the Federation of Varusmies and Demo Finland, the voting turnout of men of military age is significantly lower than that of women of the same age. Special problems arise if the conscript is in service on the actual election day. Short evenings are also not easily wasted on exercising the right to vote. In the past, garrisons have been offered joint transport from certain garrisons to electoral stations to allow them to exercise their right to vote. A separate voting car has stopped near some of the garrison areas. This temporary legislative amendment has been made precisely because of the corona situation so that the health security of the elections would not be jeopardised by the possible congestion of the polling stations. Mr President! Voting and enabling the exercise of the right to vote are the cornerstones of democracy. In particular, the first voting experience remains in mind and should go smoothly. This proposal to enable the vote in the garrison is a step in the right direction and is supported by a number of arguments. In the light of the experience of municipal elections, a permanent legislative amendment should indeed be prepared in order to allow elections in other elections to be held in the garrison. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u6	Like this. — and Mr Koponen, Mr Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u7	Mr President! The proposal has long been wanted, as the voting turnout of young people has been low. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the military can vote during the pandemic in 21 C.E. It is vital that all those who wish to exercise their right to vote are able to exercise their right to democracy. An institution vote would facilitate the exercise of the voting rights of persons entitled to vote in military training who would be present in the Defence Forces garrison areas referred to in the proposal and in the Border Guard services at the time of the institutional vote. The proposal would therefore contribute to the effective exercise of the rights of election and participation of the persons concerned and would improve health safety. The transfer of elections and, above all, the failure of the government was a failure, and we must now take every possible step to ensure that municipal elections can be organised in due course in June and learn that we will not be in a similar situation again. And, as Mr Simula said, it would be desirable that this should also become a permanent practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u8	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u9	Mr President! Finland has a general and equal right to vote. This factor has helped to build a stable and secure welfare state. Equal voting rights also means that every person entitled to vote has an equal vote. Voting turnout has been falling for a long time. The more voters refuse to vote, the weaker the mandate will be given to the elected ones. People are interested in elections and politics. They certainly have opinions, as we Members of Parliament well know. It is important for society to have people vote and express their views. It is also an important prerequisite for democracy. The vote will certainly be reduced if the vote is made very difficult. The home and institutional vote has been aimed at facilitating the possibility of voting for people who find it difficult or impossible to go to the polling station. President! The Government's proposal proposes to hold an institutional vote in the garrison, which would ensure the possibility of voting for the conscripts during the interest period. Young people who perform their military service, building their own future, are also the cornerstones of Finnish society in every way, whose participation and participation in the elections are vital. Versatile and secure voting opportunities make voting easy and encourage people to exercise their right to vote, both for young people and for the elderly. The exercise of the right to vote is always a service in our society. President! The present representative democracy in Finland is built on the fact that citizens vote in elections for people who want to work together on behalf of others. If you do not vote at all, it will be difficult to express your own ideas, values and solutions in politics. One way to find a suitable candidate for the election is, of course, to run for it. The presence of young candidates, both conscripts and women, on the municipal electoral lists would be very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u10	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u11	Mr President! Today is a national veteran's day. Humble thanks to the veterans of our wars who did an enormous job for our fatherland by shouldering responsibilities during the war. It is also a matter of taking responsibility for our involvement in the affairs of the country within the framework of democracy. A person entitled to vote can take part by voting, and many have also taken part in decision-making at different levels. Fatherland matters are handled both in the municipalities and in the politics of the kingdom. Mr President! I think it is very valuable and important that we lower the threshold for voting. The more people vote in the forthcoming municipal elections of this year and in other elections, the better. Because of the interest rate, municipal elections had to be postponed, and because of the interest rate, some municipalities are also taking new ways of voting. For example, for the first time in some municipalities, it is possible to vote on a car in a car lane vote, at least by means of an advance vote. Mr President! It would be very desirable if at least some of these new voting thresholds could be introduced in the future. It was good to hear the Minister of Justice say that the new practice of military service is being tried out now as it were and can then continue to be introduced if this proves to be the case. All in all, this government proposal seems very good. The aim, as we have heard, is to promote the ability of women entitled to vote for military service and voluntary military service in a smooth and secure manner now during the period of the corona pandemic. This proposal gives the possibility to vote in the garrison of the troops and in the service providing training for the Rangers. It is estimated that the proposal would concern approximately 15,000 persons entitled to vote in military service. These people are Finns who currently bear important responsibility for the defence of our country in carrying out the military service. It is very important to ensure that they have a safe and smooth opportunity to give their voice in future municipal elections and thus also to participate in the realisation of democracy. That is why this government proposal is very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u12	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u13	Mr President! It is clear, of course, that this proposal for institutional votes in the garrison itself is a worthy and welcome proposal. However, it must be wondered how such an issue is to be regulated to improve the voting rights of the conscripts and voting in elections only in 21 years after the corona pandemic has been in progress for one year. Is this yet another of the actions that has not been taken in the past year?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u16	That's right, ladies and gentlemen. There's a little willingness here for the debut. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u17	Mr President! In short, only to the extent that it is good that there is a very perky opposition in the country that makes strong statements. However, when this corona virus has already done its damage here — not only in Finland, but in the whole world — I would hope that no one has ever been able to practice this matter before. This is the first time. The last time, of course, was the Spanish flu in the early 20th century, and since then no memories have reached this point. When these corona restrictions were imposed on various parties, of course, they were aimed at protecting people’s lives and health. And now that the elections have been postponed, we know for sure that once we have reduced people's mobility, imposed restrictions, it has produced results. The number of cases of illness has been reduced — at its worst, I think it was close to 1000, now it is something of the 200 — and it certainly proves that this works very well in this way when we make restrictions. Finally, the most important thing to note here too, Mr President, is that our own personal responsibility is the most important thing, that we make sure that we do not make each other sick or our loved ones sick.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u18	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u19	Mr President! A little bit of this representative. The criticism raised by Mäkelä is unremarked in the sense that it is now precisely the proposal at the table that improves the right of the conscripts to vote. If it had been the case, you had the Minister of Justice's briefcase in your own party last season, and then you could have prepared it, but now, fortunately, this government is doing it. Of course, this right of conscripts to vote is a key issue. This has been widely demonstrated by the Federation of Armours and Youth Organisations, by the Minister of Defence, Mr Kaikkonen, and also by the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, who has now brought this proposal here on behalf of the government. It is absolutely essential for young people to be able to vote, for the conscripts to be able to vote, and for everyone to have this equal right to vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u20	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u24	I will give the floor to the representatives of Essayah, Kiljunen and Mäkelä. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, on veteran day today, it is right that in this Chamber we all pay tribute to past generations of victims for the good of the country, and today we are able to present here in this Chamber the opportunity for the garrison to exercise the right to vote in its forces and in the training units of the Rangers. This is extremely important — not just because of this interest rate, as colleagues have said here, but I hope that this will become a permanent practice, now that we have experience. In particular, in view of these young age groups who perform their military service either on a voluntary basis or on the basis of the law, it is important that at least the military service is not the reason why voting activity would fall, that is, that there is no right to vote. That is why we can welcome this bill with satisfaction from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u26	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u27	Mr President! There is a consensus in the Chamber that the bill is in order at this point. It will make it as easy as possible for the military to vote and it will be about increasing democracy, representative democracy and efficiency. In my reply, however, I stayed to reflect on Mr Mäkelä's speech. In some way, we had to find the opposition angle on a point on which we agree. There is a huge amount of legislation in this house. With regard to every single law that is laid down here, we could always begin to speak in exactly the same way: ‘Why has this not been regulated before? “ It's a bottomless argument. It doesn't matter. You, Mr Mäkelä, should thank this government for regulating it now and together we can do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u28	And now, Mr Mäkelä, who started the whole debate, followed by a few rounds of the list of speakers, and then the Minister has the opportunity to respond. — Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u29	Thank you, Mr President. That is not the point of entry for the opposition, which is the chronology, the chronology, the chronological order of the transfer of these elections. In other words, the election should have been about ten days ago. That election day was known for many years, and now we are discussing this issue, which would have helped to improve their ability to vote safely in municipal elections, even for thousands of people, if the elections had taken place in due course. In other words, this is not the point of entry for the opposition, but it is a central point in democracy that elections must be prepared in time. We have known for a year that we have a corona pandemic, we have known for a year that election day is approaching — this proposal is only now here in the Chamber. Yes, it must be discussed why it is so, that it is only now here in the Chamber. If we are to believe that this THL calculation exercise on the number of infections was sincere and had no other purpose, then it should still have been prepared in time for these elections and the Ministry of Justice should have done its job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u30	Now back to the list of speakers. — Mr Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u31	Mr President! Many good speeches have been heard in the Chamber. As a representative Mr Simula said well earlier in this Chamber, this proposal is a step in the right direction. There has been great concern about voting turnout among young people in particular for a long time. It is important to ensure that there is a chance for the military to vote in future municipal elections as well as in other forthcoming elections. The proposal is to be welcomed, and I too hope that this will become a permanent practice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u32	Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u33	Mr President! This proposal for a temporary amendment of the electoral law to the effect that institutional voting in the municipal elections next June in the garrison and in the border guard garrison training units is appropriate. In the course of the corona pandemic, armed forces of the utmost importance for Finland must also have effective access to their civil rights, one of the most important of which is the right to vote. Although we have already decided here in Parliament to extend the advance voting time for municipal elections compared to the previous one, it is good that voting is now also possible in the garrison area. This should help to increase the voting turnout of young people in their military service. Let us hope that this practice will continue. Mr President! In this context, if you don't mind, I would like to make a brief comment on the worrying news from the last few days about the coronas in the garrison. According to publicly available information, over 600 corona infections have already been confirmed in the Defence Forces during the first half of this year, and recently they have appeared in large numbers, especially in the direction of Turku. The number is clearly higher than last year and, according to the reports of the militarymen themselves, in some cases, conscripts exposed to the corona virus may have been placed in the same housing with non-exposed conscripts, in which case some of the conscripts have obviously been infected and spread it further to the rest of the population. Mr President! In view of the close housing conditions of the garrisons, these conscripts who carry out their civic duty have virtually no chance of preventing illness by their own actions if there is even one corona positive in the house. I therefore believe that more and more attention should be paid to ensuring the safety of the pandemic in the garrison, both for the corona pandemic and for all future pandemics. I hope that these greetings will also reach the ears of the Minister for Defence, so that the military can carry out their civic duties as safely and as healthy as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u34	And now, Minister Henriksson, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u35	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to start by saying that it is a very good thing that it is now possible for the conscripts to vote. The fact that it is now coming at this stage is due, among other things, to the fact that: The Chief Staff has not been so interested in this matter. On the contrary, the Chief Staff issued an opinion to the Ministry of Justice when we were asked, and their opinion thus stated that the Defence Forces have the opportunity to carry out the necessary voting arrangements even in spite of the current epidemic situation, which is why it is not considered necessary to go through the legislative change before the 2021 municipal elections. The Chief Staff is in favour of amending the electoral law so that the establishment of an advance polling station in the garrison would be possible on a discretionary basis in the future, but there would be no obligation to do so. In other words, contrary to what the Chief Staff has said, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Defence agreed that this issue is so important that we are still taking this forward, and I am glad that we are now so far along. — There has been no sleep and nothing has been done here, Mr Mäkelä, but it has been done exactly as it should be done in the democratic world: although this Chief Staff has taken a different view, we have seen that from a democratic point of view this is a good thing, and we therefore have this proposal here today. Then it is extremely important that we ensure that all Finns and all those residing in Finland who have the right to vote can exercise that right. That is why it can now be said that this corona situation, when a large proportion of Finns, some 1.5 million today, have already received a vaccine, has also led to THL being prepared to change its position on the possibility of voting for those in isolation, and thanks to this increased research data and vaccines, THL has now stated that, on certain margins, the possibility of voting can be held both in the home vote and on the election day outside. It requires vaccinations, keeping to fair security intervals, and the voter’s wearing masks, and many other details. This is also positive news because it also results in more people being able to exercise their right to vote in future municipal elections in practice. As far as military personnel are concerned, it can of course be said that they can also vote in advance. If they are free, they can exercise their right to vote in advance, as each of us can, and they can, of course, vote on election day, but if, for some reason, they could not do so, they will also have the opportunity to vote in the garrison when an institutional vote is held there. As a result, the possibility of using their voting rights for conscripts also improves a great deal for this proposal, and that is a good thing. We need a society in which our young people want to be involved, and that is why it is also up to us to ensure that there are enough pre-election places. I hope that every municipality will think about the fact that there are plenty of advance polling stations. Then, after the experience of this year’s municipal elections, we move forward and begin preparing for a more permanent change to the electoral law and collect all the information we can get from these municipal elections. Let us take all the positive experiences out of it and then amend the electoral law to the extent necessary so that it sits better in future elections than the current electoral law. I am pleased that a large part of this House has supported this proposal, and I think it is also a good thing for democracy and for the military. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u36	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this same sitting after the other items of the order of business have been closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u37	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Representative Könttä absent, representative Savola absent. — Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u38	Madam President! This is a very fine amendment of the law which we will be able to deal with in relation to Articles 9 and 46 of the electoral code to temporarily amend them so that, even in the middle of the covid pandemic, young men and women can carry out their duties and voting rights through institutional voting in the armed forces as well as in those services providing border guard training. This is a very fine proposal, and I think, Mr President, that the safeguarding of the finest representative democracy in the world must be a priority for the whole of Parliament, for all parties. And in order to maintain the legitimacy of our system, it is important that voting turnout remains high enough. I remember reading the studies that I read about when young people's voting behaviour is being studied, so often those young people who vote when it is the first time they can vote will continue to vote very responsibly in the future – taking part in elections, municipal elections, parliamentary elections, presidential elections of the Republic, EU elections and so on. But again, those young people who miss it for the first time, very often then do not go to the vote after that, and in this, at a very early age, there is a risk of such dangerous segregation from the point of view of society: there are active citizens and then, unfortunately, a large number of very passive citizens from the point of view of democracy. In this sense, it is often the case, especially for the large age group of young men, that election springs are just at the time of military service, that, if the situation is in the service — of course, the same applies to young volunteers in the service — it is not possible to vote during the service period, for example, in municipal elections, where the matters of their own school-time residence are very close and, for example, at home, one can talk about actively participating in the elections, and that experience is missing, then after the army the places of study often move away: the constituency may change altogether, and even in the parliamentary elections things seem far more distant. In this respect, the fact that, even during the military service, the right to vote is guaranteed for everyone is very important in order to safeguard the legitimacy of our democratic society in the future. In this respect, Mr President, I hope that this will not only be a temporary change, but will always ensure that we vote in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u39	Representative Kauma gone, representative Kimmo Kiljunen gone, representative Minna Reijonen gone. — Representative Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u40	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Justitieministeriet har berett en viktig ändring i vallgen med tanke på det stundande kommunalvalet. Ändringen som tillåter anstaltröstning vid garnisoneerna garanterar att de värnpliktiga har öt rösta i liet på ett tryggt stätt. Försvarsmakten har på grund av coronaepidem gjort ändringar i närvaropraxisen för de kärnpliktiga, och därför är det viktigt att de som nu gör sin kärnplikt ges en reell vöjlighet och en enklare öjlighet att delta i valet och kunna uttttja sin medborgerliga rättighet och skyldighet. Det är också viktigt, som arv tidigare nämnts, att från ung ålder vänja sig vid att rösta och anse det betydelsefult.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u41	Mr President! We are here to discuss the government's proposal for a temporary amendment to the electoral code. As has already been said in a number of good speeches here, there is a small but very important change in itself to ensure the possibility for those who perform military service and voluntary military service for women to vote under these municipal conditions of corona pandemic. It is quite clear that in a democratic society, safeguarding the right to vote is the most important thing. In addition, it is very important to ensure that young people in particular are supported in voting turnout, because we know that statistics show that voting for young people is lower than in many other age groups. Therefore, although there is now a temporary change in the debate, it certainly makes sense, in the light of the experience of these elections, to consider that this change could be made permanent and that it would also be possible to secure the possibility for the conscripts to vote in future elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u42	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral debate and the procedure agreed in advance for scheduled cases shall be followed. — Minister Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u43	Mr President, värderade talman! The corona virus epidemic, which began over a year ago, has had a major impact on the daily lives of both citizens and businesses. Unfortunately, the Corona virus epidemic is not over yet and its effects on businesses can be long-term. The economic situation of many companies is likely to be corrected only by a delay in the normalisation of the situation following the lifting of the restrictions. It is therefore important that the government facilitates the ability of the various actors to cope with the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u44	Mr President! The duration of the epidemic and its impact on the economy cannot be accurately predicted. It is clear, however, that the financial situation of companies facing payment difficulties will only be corrected over time when the situation is restored once the restrictions have been lifted. Helping businesses to cope with the crisis is essential and this objective must be pursued through all possible means. The extension of the protest period of Trata will help companies with payment difficulties by allowing them a longer period of time to settle their financial situation before any publication or notification of the trata is made to the credit repository. The extension of the protest period will mitigate the disadvantages for companies by allowing them a longer time to react. And to the end, President: only a successful private sector can lay the foundations for sustainable funding for our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u45	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u46	Mr President! Interest is not only a health crisis but also an economic crisis. For the last year, we have gone ahead of people's health, as it should be, and in doing so we have at the same time interfered with and restricted the freedom to conduct a business. The economy of citizens and businesses has also been affected in many places by changes in people's consumption patterns and a number of restrictions on operating conditions. We do not yet have full certainty as to when the disease will end, but there are certainly bright spots. The vaccine coverage is also increasing. In any case, interest has led to a situation where the financial buffers of both citizens and businesses are low. Not only health, of course, but also economic survival. It cannot be that once the corona has been won, our economy is in such a bad condition that we are unable to step on the rise. President! In the face of difficulties, time, a stronger economy, interest rate measures and clear rules of play will help. The government's proposal on this point will fill all of these. The proposal lays down, inter alia, maximum amounts of recovery costs in euro and time limits for recovery operations. The need for clearer regulation of the costs of company-to-business recovery has long been seen. President! This government proposal will therefore continue to alleviate the financial difficulties that the interest rate continues to cause. The proposal is therefore well-founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u47	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u48	Mr President! Indeed, as colleagues have already said, the interest rate has also created major challenges for the economy. However, it is constantly being said that the growth of the world economy is just around the corner if we go ahead and get this pandemic under control. In that sense, it would be important for companies to survive this financial discipline and survive. In that sense, I believe that this government proposal is absolutely necessary. This gives companies a certain degree of flexibility, if you could say so. For example, the lengthening of the protest period for trata is necessary here because it gives companies a better chance of reacting to situations — and also, on the one hand, the moderation of the costs of recovery between companies, could it be said, and, on the other hand, the examination of this period. Indeed, these issues relating to recovery costs are also issues that I would think might perhaps be worth looking at at at a later stage as a whole, because they will also be quite a lot of feedback from the citizens, and even the small amounts of negligence in the euro may lead to. However, what is at issue here is first and foremost that companies that may have difficult financial situations should be able to overcome these gaps. Now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask — since we have had various moratoriums and I believe that there have also been a variety of voluntary arrangements for the payment of loans and a variety of flexibility both between companies and certainly also in the attitude of credit institutions to companies — whether it is now possible to see that there has been some kind of bankruptcy wave, for example, this spring. Has the Ministry of Justice, for example, collected any information on whether bankruptcy applications or similar cases have come into play, or does it seem that this would now be resolved without us leaving jobs and the companies being destroyed?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u49	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u50	Mr President! At the same time, this government proposal is necessary, but not without problems, and the same view is conveyed by the feedback received in this presentation. Almost every statement clearly states that we must do everything in our power to ensure that our companies get as little damage as possible over the corona press. One of the key ways of doing this is to moderate the regulation of corporate debts, and in this government proposal this derogation period, which has already started last year, will be extended. That is why this proposal can be supported as a temporary measure, even though some statements say that there is no direct research data on the fact that SMEs, which are the most vulnerable, have benefited from this derogation. Mr President! I agree with many commentators that these temporary changes must not be a direct basis for permanent regulation on recovery. In some circles, for example, a ban or removal of trata has been proposed. It would take things out of the ditch into an ally. In practice, such a ban would lead to further credit losses as creditors would no longer have sufficient up-to-date information on the liquidity of the applicant. Many well-performing companies could be deprived of the credit they need in the future if creditors had to make decisions at an increasing risk of their own. It can't be the will of this house. That is why, for example, the proposal of the Confederation of Financial Services that, if the pandemic situation is to be eased, the starting point should be the assessment of recovery costs in a more normal operating environment, is to be welcomed. Similarly, if and when a more permanent reform of regulation in this area starts, the most important thing would then be to carry out the preparatory work in this area on the basis of adequate and comprehensive impact assessments, based on the perspective of credit applicants as well as credit providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u51	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u52	Mr President! The proposed change is good in this context of the corona crisis. We now need all sorts of measures to help firms in difficulty, especially those who have suffered from payment difficulties. After all, this bill assumes that it is precisely an attempt to make businesses easier by not making this situation even more difficult if their recovery costs are increased. In Tratassa, a company is asked to pay a claim, and if it does not pay, it will become public, and this is therefore also a kind of deterrent to the company, so it is worth doing everything possible to pay off the debts. In this proposal this period of protest would be extended from 10 to 21 days, and this change would be temporary until the end of September. Mr President! I dare hope that we will be rid of this corona crisis this year, and so I really hope that this change will be temporary. Just as Mrs Wallinheim said earlier, it also has its drawbacks if this change were to become permanent. Then, Mr President, let me remind you that many companies are still in a rather difficult situation. This government has also made various proposals on financial aid, and at the moment, just today, in fact, the cost support application for the third one will begin, and it will last until 23 June. But this support is aimed at the period from November to the end of February last year, and I am sure that a lot of companies are also waiting for what the government intends to do then for these spring months from February onwards, that is, a lot of people are waiting for cost support for number four and also for its conditions to be slightly lighter than they had in previous years. In particular, it has been hoped that, given the requirement that turnover should fall by 30%, a fall of less, for example by 20%, would be an opportunity to apply for this aid. Mr President! This proposal is to be welcomed and I appreciate the fact that the Minister has taken account of the difficult situation of companies in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u53	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u54	Mr President! As we know, this corona epidemic has hit small businesses very badly, and the flow of income to businesses, when it has decreased, has caused automatic payment difficulties. Charges on invoices have been delayed and then cause problems for the future of the company. It is such a cumulating sum total of difficult economic matters. The government has done its best to alleviate this problem by means of various derogations, as the Minister well presented this government proposal. This continues to be the case with the aim of maintaining the ability of companies to function. The positive thing is that we have received the message that Finnish companies have relatively well managed to cope with this interest rate. We must continue to be patient and work hard on that health sector and help companies to move forward, so that when this interest rate is brought to reasonable proportions and the interest rate amplifications are progressing, they will also recover. As we have received information over the last few days through the media, it is to be expected that the economy will start to run much faster during the summer, and when we reach that level, we can be a little more satisfied that these measures, such as this government proposal, have been timely and well targeted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u55	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u56	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal for a temporary amendment to the Law on Recovery, a temporary amendment to Article 7 of the Law on the Recovery of Claims and a temporary amendment to Article 24 of the Law on Credit Information is certainly very well founded and important in this situation caused by the Corona pandemic, where many companies, smaller and larger companies, are in a difficult situation. At a time like this, this clearer regulation of recovery measures is certainly useful, and in this respect I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for making this kind of welcome for businesses. Here, among other things, representatives of Wallinheimo and Kauma have spoken well about the points of view which, of course, then relate to the fact that the recovery operation itself is an important part of normal business, but in any case I represent the school that such clear regulation is certainly also useful under normal circumstances in the sense that recovery is always reasonable. It is important for us to create a framework in Finland so that the entrepreneur can feel safe in this way and, with good pleasure, young people would go on entrepreneurship, their wings, to try out, so that we can then make use of the diverse skills and ideas that we have in this country. Mr President! In short, I would like to add my voice to that good speech by Mr Kauma. When he raised the issue of this cost support for three, there are certainly many entrepreneurs who may be following Parliament's plenary session today from their own busy times, and, of course, in those companies where this interest has unfortunately ceased to be haste, there will be a follow-up to the hand-out of Parliament. Indeed, this cost support three has now been opened, and this coverage of the costs of November/February is very good, for example, for the tourism sector, for which, of course, the situation has been extremely difficult during this pandemic. In this sense, it is now important that companies which are entitled to this compensation for the fact that cross-border traffic cannot exist are active. Thank you to the Attorney General for this good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u57	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u58	Mr President! Recovery and credit information and legal amendment are dealt with. For businesses, this is an important change. This will make it easier for companies to survive. Recovery and credit information issues arise from time to time in other cases. For example, when people visit a doctor and public health care, it may be that the bills are coming home and the customer may still be in the ward or somewhere. Bills are already available with very short payment time, and no patient can come home. There may be a first bear, another bear, perhaps a third bear, and soon letters from the collection office will begin and soon the credit information may go away. In a way, even municipalities would have little obligation to think about such a thing, both for companies and especially for residents and people, that there would be some kind of humanity here, because in a way this happens in vain: people don't always have a person at home who is receiving the bills, or can have memory disorders or other things. It would take more of that kind of human touch to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u59	Mr President! Any government proposal aimed at helping entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, in this context of the corona crisis, is welcome. This government proposal seeks to facilitate issues related to recovery and credit information, and then the cost support that will be opened up today will also be a good hand-out for entrepreneurs at this stage, so that we can get to the point of getting our entrepreneurs back on track and gradually getting the economy back on track. I am very pleased about this. And now that we are considering temporary laws to change this recovery, I also hope that the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, will also rush into a law relating to these non-payment marks. Removing them may even take up to four to five years for the person who has paid for them. I very much hope that the 30-day ceiling will now be what we are about to see and study in Parliament, and at the same time a positive credit register, which should be on the sidelines of this type of legislation, in order to ensure that creditors have every opportunity to ensure that the person to whom credit is granted is also able to pay for it. It could be assumed that today, some 400,000 Finns who have lost their credit records would have a clear direction out of the plight they are in. Then, at the same time, there are a lot of people who are currently unable to get a job because of the credit record, do not get their lives started, do not have the ability to buy a dwelling, do not have the ability to open various contracts, electricity contracts for a rental dwelling, and so on, so that their lives and the burden of mental health can gradually be eased and then become dynamic. Every Finn who is able to work for a nail must be able to work after the interest rate, and such reliefs to the law, such as the 30-day ceiling on the abolition of the default mark, are things that encourage people to pay off their debts, for example to borrow their family members' money and take care of it, and at the same time we encourage each of them back into the labour market as a stronger factor than ever before. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u60	Like this. — Mr Könttä and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for presenting this and the previous law. Today we are dealing with a number of temporary corona-related laws. It might be possible to describe these as such secondary laws in which society, the Council of State, seeks to protect the threats posed by the interest rate, whether they were past democratic ones or, at this point, the reliefs associated with the plight of businesses, small entrepreneurs. We have heard many good speeches here today. In my view, these are also such a whole that, in retrospect — I am not going to wind up — perhaps afterwards, after the interest rate, we can ask ourselves whether we should perhaps have a note or a package of these, in which we could see different situations of crisis, both for the company and for the protection of democracy, such sets of resilience laws which, as in this situation too, safeguard, above all, the fact that when a company or an entrepreneur is facing clearly the challenges of the payment transactions resulting from this interest rate, no company would go bankrupt and, therefore, would not speed up and prevent the rise which I hope is already coming. I would like to thank the Minister for that. Good legislative proposals, and, as has already been heard here today in the case of both legislative proposals, which we have been discussing today, this support seems to be above the government-opposition limits in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u62	Like this. — And Minister Henriksson, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, both in the opposition and in the government parties for the constructive debate and good views. After all, we are in this crisis together, and together we have to come out of here, and we have to come out so that we try to get as many companies as we can to deal with this crisis and thus also to keep those jobs and then to develop them. It is precisely those solutions that we are seeking, and that is why this temporary law is still necessary, because the corona crisis is not over. Here are the questions about the number of bankruptcies. Mr Essayah, who apparently left the Chamber, asked if it could be seen that the number of bankruptcies had increased considerably. We have, of course, been monitoring the situation, and in February to March it seems that the number of bankruptcies has increased by around 14%. The last few weeks have also been such that more bankruptcy applications have come in, but no such explosive change compared to previous years has taken place, at least not yet, and that is a good sign. Of this 3rd cost support: it is on the table of Minister Lintilä and it is, of course, a government policy and an important line that companies should be supported. The possible cost support for 4 will also be provided by Minister Lintilä, and I am sure that if it is still considered necessary, if companies are still in a situation where they need it, then it will be. After all, all the information that comes out of this package of laws is now to be collected, and it is also intended that an updated law will then be introduced: to take all the feedback and all the experience of this temporary legislation away from us, which is possible, so that we can have permanent good legislation in this respect, too, when it comes to the collection costs of companies. On these other issues, which are now topical in the area of debt, I would also like to mention that they are extremely important. I am now in a state of will that, as long as the government is able to reach a solution there at the Regent House so that the government can continue to operate, we can also get a proposal to shorten the default marking here in Parliament this year, perhaps even before Midsummer. A positive credit register proposal would be coming in the autumn, and we are also at that stage in the preparation of corporate debt arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u64	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Here, too, a maximum of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u65	Mr President! The Government proposal under discussion proposes temporary amendments to three administrative laws of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The changes are related to the covid-19 epidemic. These changes are intended to ensure the continuity of maritime transport and the organisation of public transport during the epidemic by extending the duration of the temporary derogations previously provided for. The derogations now proposed largely correspond to the possibilities of the existing derogations. The current derogations will expire at the end of June 21. This government proposal proposes to extend them until the end of October 21. The amendment of Article 13 of the Ship Crew and Ship Safety Management Act would extend the possibility of granting exemptions under the law in force, including in respect of additional certificates of competency required on board ships. The exemption would continue to be granted on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the safety aspects of the Agency. Four amendments are proposed to the Transport Services Act, which essentially correspond to existing temporary derogations. The amendment of Article 18a of the Transport Services Act would extend the extension of the obligation to provide for the holders of a taxi licence and for the holders of a smaller passenger licence and the holders of a passenger transport licence. The amendment to Section 109 of the Transport Services Act would provide for an extension of the validity of certificates for the recognition of qualifications of foreign crews. They would be valid until the end of April 22 at the same time as the validity of the qualifications at which they are based. By 31 October 21, the amendment of Article 109a of the Transport Services Act would extend the validity of the expired crew by 6 months. Furthermore, the amendment of section 179a of the Transport Services Act would allow the notification of changes in public transport, by way of derogation from the normal procedure, not later than five days before the implementation of the changes. The temporary amendment of the Pilotage Act also concerns the extension of existing derogations. The proposal would allow for an extension of the pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's pilot's licence, or the exemption from the pilot's obligation to be extended by 6 months if the pilot's permit expires by 31 October 21. In addition, it would be possible to issue new pilot guidance books and line pilots without complying with the test pilot requirement, provided that the other conditions are met. In the case of derogations from the Pilotage Act, a case-by-case review of the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency would continue to be required. Mr President! The amendments to the three laws I have described are important under the prevailing circumstances. There are hopes for the development of the disease during the summer, but there is no certainty. The disease situation in other countries also affects maritime activities in particular. On the other hand, if the situation improves as expected during the summer, the proposed changes will be needed to ensure a smooth transition to normal procedures. I hope that Parliament will deal with the Government's proposal as a matter of urgency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u66	Like this. — and Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u67	Mr President! That is where the Minister very well presented this bill, and surely his appeal to Parliament to deal with the matter as a matter of urgency is more than justifiable. Of course, in this pandemic situation, we have to make sure that maritime traffic runs. Maritime transport is absolutely essential for security of supply and for the functioning of society in general. But, Mr President, if I may ask the Minister another urgent question. However, when we discuss these covid-19 arrangements, which are needed for legislation, that we can cope well with this situation, both the public health and the national economy are important. If we think that the tourism industry has been a very central, growing form of service exports to Finland in recent years — money has come into the country with foreign tourists, and these effects are not only on Lapland, where, of course, their importance in regional economic terms is enormous, but on every side of the country, and, for example, through Finnair, for the capital region, for example, this is of great importance — and when the ministry's administrative sector is at stake, I would now ask the Government's direction in favour of tourism, is there no way to lay down clear rules on how to come to Finland, so that we now have a year to know how passengers can come to Finland, for example, for example, for a winter season to come to Finland? Is there such pre-testing or some kind of vaccine passport or similar arrangements in place to ensure that tour operators can now start selling trips to Finland and can secure tourism be guaranteed for both those who come here and then for all Finns who provide the tourist services here? This is a matter of several billion euros for Finland to open up tourism in a health-safe way, and I ask the Minister that you are aware within the Government that next winter's trips to Finland would be sold now if the Government could give clear guidelines on the conditions under which to come to Finland. These decisions are now needed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u68	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u69	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Haraka, for the presentation. It's really important. I also hope and believe that, when this comes to the Committee on Transport and Communications, it will get the matter dealt with quickly and quickly, the government's proposal will also be made final. Although this corona epidemic situation seems to have improved and relaxed in Finland, there is still no guarantee that this positive trend will continue and that new variations will emerge. It is therefore also necessary to prepare for the future, and it is still very important to prepare for the continuation of the epidemic in order to ensure the continuity of functions vital to society and, yes, transport and safe transport, both in public transport and in general, are important issues. Each of us in some way has to move from place to place. One big thing about this is that the aim of the proposal is to ensure the integrity of maritime transport during the covid-19 epidemic. If the disease situation here in Finland is already slightly improving and moving away, it does not guarantee whether it is in the same direction with offshore shipping, because Finland is practically an island and the goods are transported by sea to Finland and there is also international freight traffic here. It is therefore important that this maritime transport has also been taken very well into account here. Similarly, ensuring the health safety of public transport is extremely important for the movement of people. Take, for example, bus traffic: People travel to work, although telework has already increased considerably and gained a foothold. I hope that telework is also a permanent solution for the future, but it is not acceptable for everyone, and that is why people also travel by bus. Train traffic is also very important that it is safe to travel on trains, and as Minister Harakka pointed out, taxi traffic is also important: people are happy to take a taxi because they feel that it can be carried alone or alone, and it must also be safe. That is why I think it is very good that this government proposal has now been brought here and that the government now wants to ensure the safe movement of people in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u70	Like this. Minister Harakka, how many minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u71	Mr President! Thank you for these comments. The representative, Mr Autto, must have deliberately moved a little to the territory of other ministers. You will be aware that the promotion of tourism falls within the remit of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of the Interior. But perhaps in this context it is good to say that, as I said myself — and also Mrs Torniainen here — the situation is changing rapidly and anticipation and preparedness are very difficult in this pandemic situation. I understand that for the tourism industry these have been very painful months because, naturally, people book their trips in good time and plan their holidays. However, the main concern in the autumn of last year was that thousands of tourists would be brought from Britain for Christmas to Lapland, and when this dangerous conversion virus was specifically identified, it turned out that the Transport and Communications Agency would have had to cut off all air links with Britain on the day of the killing. So the result was exactly the opposite. This is the reality in which we live now, and that is why preparation for the worst is constantly necessary. At the same time, however, it should be noted that, while certain obligations for carriers are being extended here, it is also a sign that public transport and public transport in Finland have worked in a highly health-safe manner across the board and in mutual cooperation. Here, too, there are elements of flexibility in the fact that, if necessary, public transport operators will also be able to notify their schedule changes more quickly. And here I want to publicly thank all public transport operators for their responsible and successful action during the corona period.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u72	Like this. — Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u73	Mr President! The last time a bill was brought to Parliament in the autumn on this introduction of pre-tests, it was a bill from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and I was therefore encouraged to ask this question here as well. But certainly Minister Harakka is right that such a theme is very cross-administrative. And, of course, perhaps one big challenge has been that these cross-administrative issues may not have been taken forward if they are sufficiently urgent. With regard to this bill, I am sure that Parliament will press ahead with the matter and that these substantive changes in maritime transport will be continued, and thank you for preparing them for the Minister, but I will continue to appeal to the Council of State to bring forward these large intersectoral entities as well. And the Minister rightly pointed out that, in the face of the worsening British disease, it was certainly not possible to think of a separate charter tourism in Britain, but, on the contrary, it was the case, as the Minister rightly said, that British flights had to be completely suspended. But there should be some clear rules on when to come to Finland. And when that time has gone a huge leap forward from the point of view of the epidemic — there are vaccines, and in Britain, for example, the situation is good — can the British come to Finland or can they not come? And what are the safety limits, for example, as regards the incidence of cases of disease, that you can travel from Britain to Finland? This should now be known, for example, so that British tour operators and their Finnish partners can start planning how to market next Christmas in Britain. If it is not safe to travel, of course it is not possible to travel, but it should be possible for healthy people to return to work in Finland and healthy people to come here and leave money in Finland, so that our national economy also has the driving force, which then, after the pandemic, also takes care of public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u74	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed. — — — — Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u75	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Income Tax Act so that sports and cultural vouchers considered to be tax-free employee benefits can also be used in the future for real-time cultural events such as concerts organised by remote connections. Koronapandemia has significantly changed consumption patterns in the cultural sector, and, for example, several bands, artists and other compositions have moved on to live broadcasts to their fans’ home sofas, for example through social media platforms. Direct broadcasts with a charge have also been arranged, but they already require a little more specific expertise to ensure quality audio and video access, for example. It is therefore relatively amazing that this proposal will only be brought to Parliament now, when the right time would have been, for example, during the last autumn session after the acute crisis has been eased. However, it was known that coronavirus pandemic will be raging around the world for a long time. A change in the law could have brought at least a small amount of revenue to the cashiers working in the cultural sector, thereby increasing the profitability of online concerts and other remote appearances. So the state action is back on track, and, for example, the municipalities, especially in the theatre sector, have been sitting on their hands and waiting for the situation to normalise. Perhaps this amendment of the law would also encourage tax-funded cultural operators to innovate alternative ways of producing culture, despite the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u76	And Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u77	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend Article 69(5) of the Income Tax Act on the ordinary employee benefit, so that the cultural activity referred to in the provision is also considered to be the real-time participation by means of remote access in the activities referred to in the provision. The aim of the proposal is to make it possible to use the tax-free cultural advantage offered by the employer in the form of employee benefits for cultural events offered at a distance. This is a welcome proposal, as it is desirable that the employee should be able to engage in his/her own activities at the time of his/her choice and choose a place of leisure and a variety of options, including during the corona epidemic. Mr President! However, the question inevitably comes to mind: Why now?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u78	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u82	Like this. — and Mr Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u83	Mr President! I am pleased that the change in the law on the use of cultural vouchers for virtual events was brought to the attention of Parliament so quickly. In the midst of the corona crisis, a number of cultural operators who have built new forms of activity have come across the fact that cultural banknotes cannot be used for virtual events. For sports vouchers and sports events, the practice has been different. This has been a huge disappointment not only to cultural operators and creative workers but also to working communities using cultural vouchers. At the beginning of March, we asked Mari Holopainen a written question on the matter, and I am very pleased that the government's proposal is now being brought forward. Especially during the corona period, when a large proportion of cultural operators have not had the opportunity to engage in their business, the possibility and encouragement of virtual events are highly justified. Legislation must be able to identify changes in everyday life and in the conduct of the business. We could not predict this corona pandemic, and it has brought with it countless laws of exception. However, I believe that the virtual and remote cultural experiences have come in one way or another to stay, and it is therefore important that the legislation is now reformed so that it is possible to use the cultural voucher for remote events even after the end of the corona. Mr President! Culture plays an important role in people's well-being and mental resilience. From that point of view, too, it is justified to encourage people to enjoy culture even in these exceptional times. This legislative change is a simple way of showing support for the cultural sector that has been seriously affected by the corona crisis, but fortunately not the only one: last week we reached agreement in the government on a package of support for culture, art, sport and events of more than EUR 230 million. It is indeed a great need, and it is very important that every professional in the cultural field who has been hit by the corona should be informed of this aid package and that these subsidies are actually distributed in a timely and fair manner. It's a very touching situation. The organisation of events has been virtually prohibited for more than a year. In addition to these subsidies, I think it is very important that culture and events should gradually open up as soon as the corona situation makes this possible. It is not only the livelihoods and mental health of people working in the cultural sector that are at stake, but also the future of the cultural sector in the longer run. It is a question of whether we are supporting culture and art beyond this difficult period or whether we are going to allow this industry to fade away. The economic importance of creative industries for Finland and its regions is indisputable and significant. It is high time to recognise and recognise the role of culture and events as a real livelihood. But on top of that, culture and art have value that cannot be measured in money and jobs. Investing in culture costs itself back as well-being, inventiveness, ideas, creativity and a better understanding of humanity and the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u84	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u85	Mr President! This government proposal includes an interesting set of amendments to the various laws relating to both this tonnage tax Act and the Income Tax Act as regards these changes in the municipal division. But I too would like to focus specifically on what Members of Parliament have mentioned before. So it is very good that the Income Tax Act is proposed to be amended so that the cultural advantage can also be used as a means of payment for virtual cultural events and events organised in real time. I believe that it is absolutely urgent to bring about this change. As the pandemic situation persists, the cultural sector has suffered a great deal financially, and, on the other hand, it is very important to participate in the cultural activity that brings joy and happiness and meaning to each of us in order to maintain people's mental well-being. In this respect, it is good that this cultural advantage will now be better exploited, and indeed cultural producers will also be better off with this in the midst of difficult times. I would like to thank the government for this, and thank you for that, and thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u86	Like this. — Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-27-ps-47.u87	Mr President! Maybe a little more on that one. Finally, I stressed that such a different solution work could be done for the benefit of culture and its players. This is often done in a wide range of administrative areas. For example, this is a question of taxation, but these support packages are now doing so both at the Ministry of Education and at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and also in connection with the current challenges of social and health care, so that then the many social security issues of these cultural factors require a solution and improvement. I therefore think, Mr President, that it is important that, in the context of the cultural package, it has been decided that a steering group of government groups should be set up, which will continue to look at the needs, to look at the forms of support so that there will be no interruptions, and to look at the overall situation in the sector. I think it is necessary that this kind of cross-administrativeism should exist. And, President, another very important, very topical issue is that culture not only brings a lot of mental well-being to the person who enjoys it, even health in a positive direction, it also brings vitality to the regions, it brings growth, it even gives Finland export opportunities and it creates more jobs here in our beloved country. That is why we should also do our utmost to support the cultural sector and, of course, to support the livelihood of those who do this valuable work. I would like to raise one question here, which would then also require rapid further action on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and which was also raised by the Committee on Finance in its own statement. In other words, we expect the government to include in the proposal that, for example, these copyright compensations today do not increase unemployment benefit, but now, especially in these days, when, unfortunately, this unemployment has hit a person more often, then copyright income will cut down on that unemployment benefit. That is, of course, a major flaw, and that is also what we in the committee have called for to be resolved, Mr President.
