ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 33/2021 vp. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 14 December 2021. — Please, representatives, quiet. Let us move on to the sectional vote. I propose that proposals and support be made by a parliamentary group at a time. I also propose that any corrections to the Minutes be made only after the whole section has been voted on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u2	The general debate was closed at the plenary session yesterday. Detailed examination of the proposals will take place in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u3	We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 23. The general debate in plenary yesterday has been declared closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u4	We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 35. The general debate in plenary yesterday has been declared closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u5	Action Kankaanniemi's proposals 2 and 3 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u6	Matias Marttinen's proposals 10 and 11 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u7	Presentation of Section 26 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior At this stage, a maximum of 1 hour and 30 minutes shall be reserved for the general discussion in the section. — Debate, represented by Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u8	Honorable Speaker! I would now like to present the section president's contribution to the budget report on the administrative sector of the SM. [PresidentAnuVehviläinen : I am still sorry, CongressmanVähämäki. — I am indeed asking the representatives who do not intend to remain in this debate to leave this Chamber quietly, and the rest of us will concentrate on listening to Mr Vähämäki. — All right, the representative may proceed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u11	Like this. It was a bit long, though. But now, Minister Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u12	Mr President! First of all, thank the Committee on Finance and the Section for Administration and Security for the good work you have done on this draft budget. Indeed, the draft budget for 2022 proposes a total of around EUR 1.585 billion for the Ministry of the Interior. Police are responsible for 861 million of this, the Border Guard is responsible for 280 million, the Emergency Services and the Emergency Response Centre are responsible for 92 million and immigration is 161 million euros. An increase of EUR 2.5 million is proposed to the police to raise the number of police officers to the level of 7500 person-years, in accordance with the Government Programme and the previous spending limits decision. In addition, a budget of 10.6 million has been presented to the police for the maintenance of the number of man-years and for the extension of the human trafficking unit. Smaller increases include EUR 1.2 million and 15 person-years to combat crimes against critical industries and EUR 1.05 million to cover expenditure arising from the amendment of Chapter 25, section 9 of the Penal Code, which is therefore an illegal threat. The implementation of the programme to combat the shadow economy will continue. Around 1.3 million have been allocated to ensure effective prevention, control and enforcement of money laundering. This is part of the financing of the EU Recovery Instrument. 6.85 million have been proposed for the development of a common field management system for public authorities. This system is a key element of cooperation between the authorities and its further development. A small increase of 0.3 million has been proposed for exit activities targeted at radicalised or at risk of radicalisation and its development, with the aim of consolidating this important work. We all know that the financial situation of the police is challenging. The increase of 30 million in the fourth amending budget for the current year to safeguard police activities temporarily alleviates the situation but does not resolve the permanent funding gap in police activities. As Mr Vähämäki explained above, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance have coordinated the police investigation project, which is currently under way, and its results will be available by the end of January. Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the Government Programme and the previous spending limits decision, an increase of 1 million will be presented to the Border Guard to safeguard border security performance and the number of border guards, which will increase the total amount to EUR 3.3 million in next year's budget in accordance with the Government Programme. The acquisition of two new outpost vessels can be started with the order mandate and the appropriation included in the fourth amending budget of the current year. A further EUR 0.4 million has been proposed in the budget to provide additional resources for the management of rescue operations in the well-being areas. There has been a strong rise in securing the number of saviors. The budget will respond to this with a budget of around 2 million to increase the amount of rescue training. As part of this package, the Swedish regional rescue course will take place in 2022. A total of EUR 2 million has been earmarked in the 22 budget for the security of the Emergency Response Centre’s resources, which is half a million more than in the current year’s budget. An increase of 4.2 million is proposed for the maintenance and development of the Emergency Response Centre Information System, with a total funding of 4.7 million for 22 years. In addition, 1.3 million have been proposed for the necessary increases in the security charges for the emergency centre information system. In 22 years, the Finnish Immigration Service will continue to work on work-based and study-based residence permit applications to defuse congestion, increase automation and develop an electronic case-handling system for foreign affairs. The management and preparedness of large-scale entry will be developed. In order to secure the functioning of the Finnish Immigration Service and promote work-related immigration, 2 million and 1 million have been proposed for the implementation of the rapid lane in order to speed up the processing of the residence permit for specialists, growth entrepreneurs and employees. The 78 million available through the EU Recovery Facility will provide an investment package using world-class automation digital infrastructure to support the migration of experts. The above-mentioned additional efforts are important steps towards, for example, increasing work-related migration in order to tackle the growing shortage of labour. Finally, I would like to point out an important addition to the increase in the refugee quota from 1050 to 1500 people due to the situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u13	Like this. — Now I would ask those Members who wish to use this debate to reply, to stand up and to use the V button to ask for the floor. — Debatin is initiated by Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u14	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. When we talk about the cost of immigration, we all know that this 161 million is unfortunately nothing more than a small fraction, because a significant part of the cost goes to quite other articles and to ministries, mainly the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. And as we know, the increase in the refugee quota and many other decisions you have taken will then be reflected in rising costs there. But I would particularly like to ask about this study by the Ministry of the Interior, which has been completed, which wants an alien passport and a residence permit for illegal residents to stay in the country. These are, therefore, mainly persons who have entered the country between 15 and 16 years and who are not entitled to international protection. First of all, why has such an analysis been carried out when it has been said from the government that this is not being carried out? And secondly, where have these people lived these years illegally in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u15	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u16	Mr President! Thank you, indeed, to the Minister and also to Mrs Vähämäki for a good introduction. The long-term resource of all the security authorities has been the wish of this whole Chamber for over a decade, and now the section and the Committee on Finance have raised the question of whether the staff, real estate and ict costs of the police should be specified, and I would also like the Minister to take a stand on this. Much is good for the Ministry of the Interior, but I would particularly like to ask about cyber skills and leadership. This internal security report, which Parliament has discussed during this autumn, has taken a position on it and it is hoped that Finland will also have stronger investments in it, as well as in juvenile and gang crime. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u17	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u18	Mr President! Thank you both to the Minister and to the section president for the presentation. I think it is important that the government has wanted to secure the resources of next year's important strong player in internal security, the police, and I also thank the Minister for Home Affairs for having had a strong will for this. But then I would like to draw attention to the phenomenon and to the issue which we in the Committee on Administration have spoken very much during this autumn, namely the increase in organised crime. As the police themselves have said, this is a three-K model, i.e. organized crime is growing, getting tougher and internationalising. We have an unfortunate old organised crime strategy, which the committee has also drawn attention to. I would therefore like to ask: as this phenomenon is now on the increase and is very worrying, will the Minister tackle this problem of organised crime?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u19	Congressman Column.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u20	Mr President! It is important that police resources and funding are secured. The government has also handled this matter well by increasing funding outside this budget. It is particularly important that the money goes where it is needed. The feeling of security comes from the visibility and availability of the police in times of need or in the event of a crime. This is why the government has also agreed on the allocation of appropriations to ensure the presence and visibility of the police, especially in areas with a low level of service. This means in particular sparsely populated areas. I would like to ask the Minister how to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u21	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u22	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Mikkos, for presenting the budget. We share in this Chamber a wide range of concerns about the long-term security of the resources of the internal security actors. Here too, it is important to emphasise the importance of prevention and cooperation between authorities. I am raising the issue of intimate partner violence and domestic violence. Finland is the second most violent country in the European Union for women. Nearly one in two Finnish women has experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. The Sote reform must ensure that effective practices are in place in all welfare areas to identify violence, assess risk and provide effective service paths for victims, perpetrators and children exposed to violence. Organisations also play an important role in this work. I would like to ask the Minister: how are we prepared for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u23	Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u24	Madam President! If you look at the Ministry of the Interior’s administration, it has been a very challenging one for years. During the previous term, I was also a member of the Administrative Committee, and even then there was always an increase in these police appropriations and others in the middle of the season. At present, these additions have been made in order to increase the number of police and other officials, border guards and the necessary staff there for field work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u25	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister and to the President of the Section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u27	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u28	Madam President! At the beginning of this report it is stated that the committee considers it necessary to strengthen the resources of the section, and year 22 is looking much better than it was a few months ago. In this regard, the opposition has played an important role when a major public debate arose on how to secure police funds, and it is great that it is also involved in this committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u29	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u30	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Finance also drew attention to this role of rescue and to the concern experienced by, for example, fire brigades. Now the Ministry will be allocated additional resources for this very national guidance and coordination, as rescue services will be a small slice of the future welfare areas. When there are, as it were, two floors of such fears, so very important is how this Ministry of the Interior’s guidance and such coordination effectively arranged. And I think it is worth developing some sort of formal negotiation and agreement procedure, which will then be able to ensure, nationally, that the same standards are applied, but also that regionally these rescue services and fire brigades feel that they are working together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u31	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u32	Mr President! Around EUR 90 million is proposed for the direct costs of refugees and asylum seekers, although there are currently very few arrivals. This well illustrates how incredibly expensive this so - called help is and how sadly money is poured into it. These would be considered large sums if it were to invest in the well-being of Finns. However, as Mr Purra said, the actual costs are on the social security side. In the capital region, between 30% and 50% of income and housing benefits are paid to foreigners. This is a vain, self-inflicted, decision-making black hole of hundreds of millions of euros in Finland's public finances every year. This expenditure is permanent and growing and is funded by Finnish employees and entrepreneurs. These expenditure can only be affected by radical change in immigration policy. This is a bad policy that's going to grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u33	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u34	Madam President! Thank you for the introduction and thank you colleagues for your excellent contributions, especially as regards the police. I'm focusing on the distress of the emergency services and the trouble of the rescuers. First of all, I would like to thank the Government for continuing to operate the Helsinki Rescue School because it is necessary in this situation when we are threatened by a shortage of rescuers in this decade. By the end of the decade, at its worst, we will lack 2,500 rescuers if education does not work to the full. These are quite good additions to training, both for emergency services and for rescuers, which you are giving, but, unfortunately, when they are totally inadequate. Already last summer we went on the rescue side below the minimum strength. Response times were not reached. Now I ask the Minister: These are good additions, but what's your long road plan? How are we gonna tackle this rescue shortage?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u35	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u36	Madam President! In the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector, the need for renovation and renovation of the police and Raja premises is still relevant, although solutions have been sought for them last year. In particular, our committee is pressing for the repair of buildings that cause health problems. Mr President, Minister! As the Minister knows, we come from the same province, North Karelia. Our border station Niirala properties are in very poor condition. They are small, they are cramped, and they are no longer safe for workers. I would like to ask: what does the Ministry do to guarantee both police, border and customs health-security facilities?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u37	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u38	Madam President! Well, at first, it's just a little bit of a math job. When we divide the police's budget and the border guard's budget by population, we receive EUR 150 per capita from the police and EUR 50 per capita from the Border Guard. I am absolutely sure — and I think we all agree here — that such sums of money will gladly be allocated to these activities from the pockets of all of us Finns. Likely there would be a little more willingness. Secondly, I would refer to the paragraph on page 29 of the report by the Committee on Finance, which refers to the current financial deficit of the rescue service, which is estimated to be just over EUR 80 million, and which should be filled by 2030, where this year and next year the municipalities will still have quite a task. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u39	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u40	Mr President! As we can see here, the funding of the police, for example, is secured for next year, but I would have asked the Minister that, if we were to follow that decision on the government spending limits, unfortunately, both the police and the protection police, for example, will not be able to carry out their duties properly if the decision on the spending limits is not changed. But then I would like to ask about this immigration policy. You write here as objectives that immigration is controlled and socially sustainable and that you prevent and combat illegal immigration and entry. In what way is this relaxation of family reunification that you advocate, or the legalisation of illegal residents, controlled and sustainable? Or is it at all? You've been gnawing at this foreign law throughout the reign. I would recommend you, Minister Mikkonen, to read this alternative budget for Finns, in which it would actually be controlled.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u41	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u42	Mr President! A position has been taken here to ensure the resources of the police, and I would like to ask the Minister how it has now been designed in a long-term way. If you always have to wonder if there is money or not every single year, you cannot plan the action. The second question relates to this situation of violence among young people. Today, the violence of young people has increased, and I would like to ask you about this financing of Ankkuri activities, that it has been ensured. The rescue action came up here, and that is the problem with this funding because the objectives have been raised, but the funding has decreased in relation to those objectives. I was also concerned about its position there in the welfare areas. I therefore hope that the Ministry of the Interior will take a clear position on the need to have a clear position in these welfare areas. I also think that the rescue school in Helsinki is extremely important. In my day, I thought it should be kept here, and I hope it will be kept.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u43	Congressman Ojala-Niemel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u47	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u48	Mr President! I am a little surprised at the Minister’s comments on the need for work-related immigration in a country with hundreds of thousands of the world’s most educated unemployed, and when we live in an area of free labour mobility of 500 million people, where does this need for labour migration come from? I also criticise this increase in the number of quota refugees to 1500 because of the Afghan refugees. This amount should at most have been covered by the former quota if it had been maintained. The most worrying aspect of this Ministry of the Interior's activities is this phenomenon that, as the government's debts become available, now illegal residents become legal by one decision. With regard to this preparation of the watering down of the asylum system, which has been done in the Ministry, I would now like to hear: Is there a legitimate commitment from the entire government to this kind of activity? Are the responsible government parties, the Social Democrats and the Centre behind this, along with the Greens and the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mikkonen?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u49	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u50	Mr President! Finland’s immigration policy seems to have a fundamental problem that it is easier to come to Finland to live on social security than to work. I would like to thank the government for investing in and investing in the creation of a fast lane for the handling of residence permits for specialist experts. How will the government ensure this good development during the JTS period when the Finnish Immigration Service is threatened by cuts that would lead to longer processing of these important work permits? Secondly, Minister, you have told us about a project in which thousands of asylum seekers arriving in Finland who have received a negative asylum decision would be given a residence permit, i.e. you are making illegal residence legal. Would not the whole asylum system lose ground if those who have unlawfully refused to leave the country after having received a negative decision were rewarded with a residence permit?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u51	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u52	Mr President! Let me tell you a family story with their permission: a man from West Africa has come to Finland in 2013 and has applied for asylum. She has become acquainted with a Finnish woman and started dating the following year. In 2016, they've been married. Now they have a 18-and-a-half-year-old child. The man speaks Finnish, has started a business, has worked. The whole family's life has been built in Finland, but during the whole eight years he has not received a residence permit for Finland. Migri has time and time again, as well as the administrative court, made a decision to return the man because the original justification of the application for authorisation was wrong — and even though a lot of mistakes were made at the beginning of the investigation also at Migri's head. He said that crazy is the kind of country that breaks up a small child’s family, sending out an entrepreneur who has learned our language. I ask you, opposition: why?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u53	Congressman Rantanen, Piritta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Administrative and Security Section, representative In his speech, Vähämäki raised the idea of sorting police funds for staff, real estate, equipment and ict expenses, and I would like to ask the Minister for his opinion. I personally think this is an excellent idea in terms of transparency, and it is also very much to be welcomed that it could then be easier to target different areas in the future. This year the budget for the police is higher than ever before, and there would be no justification for not raising the number of police officers in this situation. Despite the tight budgetary situation and the limited allocation of resources, it was intended to allocate funding to the police at the spending limits level in order to ensure proper internal security and the legal protection of victims in the future. The aim has been to secure the number of police officers working in the field. How are we going to achieve this in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u55	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u56	Mr President! According to the Foreigners' Act, illegal immigration is a punishable act, but illegal immigration is not a punishable act. Instead of now planning to legalise this illegal presence, you should take steps to make illegal presence a criminal offence and to present it with a sufficient threat of punishment. This would allow these illegal people in Finland to be detained and then the result would be that we would not have such a problem, which you intend to solve in an absurd way by legalising lawlessness. Are you, Minister, prepared to change the foreign law so that illegal immigration is also a punishable offence?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u57	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u58	Madam President! As the debate has shown, the government is planning a residence permit for 3,000 illegal asylum seekers with a one-off solution. My question is: do you think that it is right to reward those who, contrary to our legal system, have remained in the country? My question is: what does it do to our entire asylum system to allow both those who need international protection and those who do not need it to remain in the country? My question is: would it not be an excellent attraction for asylum seekers who have no grounds for international protection to come to Finland after such solutions? In response to Mr Hopsu's speech, a different issue must be decided on a personal basis for those who:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u59	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u60	Madam President! It is indeed very important that the funding and resources of the police are now secured. Of course, I personally hope that this debate will always take place every year in this debate on the budget, and that this level of funding will also be achieved on a long-term basis. The second point I would like to raise is the budget for emergency services and the Emergency Response Centre. I personally hope that they will be taken into account, and, as the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen has pointed out, then in the future attention will be paid to the status and security of fire brigades. The Committee on Finance drew attention to this. That is a good thing, and I hope that this is also the way forward. The third point I would like to make at the end is the entry in the government programme, which was also raised by the Committee on Finance in its own report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u61	And let us take Mr Bergqvist and then the Minister. — Mr Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u62	Värderade Talman! Inom Gränsbevakningsväsendet gör man en organisationsförändring som ska vaa kostnadsneutral. För sjöbevakningens del betyder det att mindre sjöbevakningsstationer hotas med nedläggning samtidigt som Gränsbevakningsväsendet bäättigas bettalla två nya stora utsjöbevakningsfartyg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u63	Mr President! Thank you for a good conversation. Indeed, in my opinion, this report has already raised these issues well, which have also been raised by a number of representatives. We all know the challenge of ensuring adequate resources for the safety authorities in a long-term way. This has been the work that has been done and, of course, thanks to my predecessor, Minister Ohio, who has moved this matter forward. This challenge is largely due to the fact that we have the accumulated repair debt, for example, from the damaged properties that were raised here, or from these growing ict costs. When this sector is so labour-intensive, if you have to make savings or have to spend money on such things as the maintenance of buildings, equipment, equipment, etc., in a way, the only place you can save or lose is the number of employees. That is why it is extremely important that Parliament as a whole now has shown its strong will that we must ensure that the funds for security authorities are adequate in the future. In practice, the budget for the whole industry has been increased during this term of government, but it has been the case that we have had to wonder whether all the staff can be kept or reduced, or at least it has not been possible to increase what has been the common will. Now, the amending budget solution, of course, ensured the situation for next year, but it is extremely important that this is done in such a long-term, clear view and plan for the coming years. Of course, one part of the police is that now this study, which the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance are doing together, also clean up the police's budget, where it goes, and the reason why the money has been increased has not been possible to secure an adequate number of police officers. This study will indeed be completed in January, and it will certainly provide a basis for our long-term assurance of this funding in the future. And the question that arose here is whether it would be appropriate to look at some kind of expenses, real estate, staff, ict and other, and, in some ways, to think separately about them and to build that structure of the budget in a different way too, is surely something that then, after its analysis, we should also think about how it will be done. I am really glad that Parliament's common will for all these security authorities is that resources must be in order in the future, and in the internal security report that will state itself strongly. Well, as far as the police are concerned, it is also a question of how to secure the resources of the border in the future, how to ensure the resources of the emergency services, the Emergency Response Centre. The fact that, for example, when it comes to rescuers, we have a shortfall in how we will ensure an adequate number of rescuers in the future. The fact that we have a shortage of about a thousand rescuers and that we should be able to increase the number of trainings also emerged in the context of the welfare area survey. For example, this Swedish course, which was raised here, is one good step towards that. And, of course, in welfare areas, we must ensure that future decision-makers also take this part of the rescue and not just look at social and health issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u64	Yes, that is the intention. — However, the replies of the representatives will now continue, and Mr Viljanen will be the first.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u65	Madam President! It is known that the operating environment of the Border Guard is challenging and unstable and difficult to predict. Border security is particularly important during such a period when the general security situation has changed. That is why it is very important that the preparedness and performance of the Border Guard are taken very good care of. Of course, the central part is that the Border Guard’s equipment is in order and proper. After all, two outpost ships are in the process of being acquired — and that is a good thing. However, as the Committee on Finance points out in its report, the replacement of two obsolete surveillance aircraft is still without the order and funding, and it is known that these existing aircraft will be at the end of their lifespan in 2025. So I ask the Minister: when will this procurement process start?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u66	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Just as a small note, when Mr Hopsu told a story of about a thousand and one nights in which he had become an entrepreneur in Finland without a residence permit: Just so you know, if you are a citizen of a non-EU country and you move to Finland and start becoming an entrepreneur, you will always need a residence permit. So let's not talk about things like this that aren't true. To the Minister, as a follow-up question: I am sure that seven or eight Members have asked the most important question about this, which I, as a member of the Administrative Committee, would like to know. So is this package of free residence permits for those who have received negative asylum decisions going ahead, or is it not going ahead? So that is what we really want to know if it is a common position of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u68	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u69	Mr President! In my opinion, the promotion of internal security requires seamless cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. There has been a good mention here of the police budget, but I do not think that is enough. After all, the legislation needs to be updated to reflect the present reality so that the police and the judiciary can actually act in a preventive and internal security way. I would like to ask the Minister: What kind of legislative packages are you currently carrying out in order to ensure that this police activity is properly safeguarded? When we know that today's reality means that organised crime is rampant, ganging up among young people is at a worrying level, drug trafficking and all its mild phenomena are progressing in an unfortunate way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u70	Congressman Kemp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u71	Madam President! Police funding will increase during this parliamentary term, and more money will also be earmarked for next year. This is a very good thing and I thank the Government and the Minister for that. We have measured the number of policemen in Finland in terms of social peace. However, if social peace is shaken, for example, by the corona, then I believe that the police should be reviewed. When you drive on a motorway and see, among other things, young people’s frustrations in traffic behaviour, you cannot be concerned as to whether the dimensioning is currently adequate. Among other things, thank you Teppo Rainio, the Police of the Year, for raising young people's traffic behaviour to the media debate. Minister, has the government responded to this? The autumn negotiations also scared us of the police. We have the lowest number of police officers compared to the other Nordic countries. There is no room for deductions; there is certainly a need for additions. Fortunately, the Minister has already described how to proceed with this and thank you for that will.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u72	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u73	Madam President, Minister! This has now come up on several occasions: if a person has received a negative asylum decision, i.e. illegally in our country — and there is always some reason why that decision is negative, and it is practically illegal in the country — and now there are so many times that I have asked the Minister once again: is the government really serious now that 3,000 unauthorized people in the country would suddenly be allowed to be here with the permission of the government to put money into this? I also have to ask: how much has this project cost so far, and how much will this study cost? It can't really be that if you're illegally in the country, you just give permission to do this and change it so that they can be legally in the country. We certainly have a lot of money holes in Finland anyway, so that I would ask: how much money has already been spent on this, and how much will be spent? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u74	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u75	Mr President! First of all, I would like to ask about the concepts used in political dissipation. What does it mean to the minister that someone is called illegal? Is not man always a person in all situations, including his right to life and his right to health services, for example? I wanted to check with the Minister on this point. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Secondly, I would like to hear the reference made by Mrs Torniainen to this internationalisation of Parikkala's border crossing station. There is a clear gap between us and East Karelia, Petrozavodsk. It will be very difficult to get there when you come from the south and that would be a key priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u76	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u77	Mr President! I too would like to make it clear that the Ministry is apparently now in the process of promoting the legalisation of 3,000 illegal people in the country. And Mr Kiljunen, this is not a question of whether a person is illegal or legal, but of whether he is legally or illegally staying in the country. I myself am concerned about this in terms of the legitimacy and credibility of this whole system. What does it tell the world of us if you can come here, participate in the asylum process, get a negative decision and then get legal permission to stay here? This also involves that when a person receives a residence permit he will be covered by housing-based social security and cannot be removed from it, which means that this also has significant budgetary costs for us Finns. I really would like you, Minister, to answer this: is this progressing, is this the government's common line and how much is there?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u78	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u79	Thank you, Madam President. A moment ago, there was a rather historic situation when the chief of police had to make public any police negotiations. Well, for that I am grateful to the government that the missing EUR 30 million was found in the police budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u80	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u81	Madam President! The increase in the budget of the police has been necessary, as many speakers have said.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u82	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u83	Mr President! It has become clear here that long-term funding is needed to secure police and internal security. As far as this rescue is concerned, I would like to ask myself: when the social welfare reform moves funding to social areas, how will it be ensured that the funding of salvation is sufficient, especially in those areas that will receive less money than is currently being used for social services? The second point I would like to ask is that for the first time, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has taken a position on 10 December. shortcomings in the investigation of animal welfare offences in the police. After all, now Helsinki is the only place where there is an animal police force, and there would be a great need to increase resources in Helsinki too, but also to make it national for all police forces. Are you planning a separate funding scheme for this? I myself have made a budget initiative for this last year and this year. It could help improve that situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u84	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u85	Mr President! Throughout its existence, the Emergency Response Centre Agency has struggled with the adequacy of personnel and the availability of trained personnel. It is good that there has been a response to the situation and that the number of trainings for emergency services has been increased, which is certainly reflected in the number of graduates since December 2022. President! I would also ask the Minister to assess whether the additional funds currently allocated are sufficient and whether this will also ensure the availability of trained staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u86	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u87	Mr President! It is good that the new Minister for the Interior understands the sufficient resources for internal security — police, border, rescue — and that it must be much longer than it is now. But I would stress the need to take account of the whole legal chain: the emergency centre, the police, the prosecutor, the court, the prison services. It cannot be that each one of these things each year has to fight for the nose to stay there above the surface. Recent news reports, for example, on the situation of prosecutors are incomparable to say that even for a year the cases are standing on the tables and the citizens are waiting. I'm gonna bring up the 911, too. There are far too many posts open there, but it is not just about money, it is about wrestling with well-being at work, with coping. A report from the Audit Committee has just been completed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u88	And Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u89	Thank you, Speaker! Minister, you said that you recognized the funding gap of 81 million rescue operations even before the transition to welfare areas. You also told me there was a rescue shortage. I would therefore like to ask: apart from recognising these problems, what are you doing to them? The government's additional funding for the rescue operation is a blob in relation to the identified deficit. In addition, in my country, Satakunta, for example, the supervising authority has issued an order to increase the number of emergency services personnel. At the same time, therefore, we are making cuts to the rescue staff and we should also have more people. I'd like to hear what you're doing. What are the measures, how do you ensure the funding of the rescue services and the adequacy of the staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u90	Congressman Kvarnström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u91	Mr President! I am going to talk about and ask about the fight against oil pollution, which, after last season's transfer, falls within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of the Interior. For three years now, the Border Guard has been responsible for combating environmental damage on the high seas, and the Border Guard’s website states that ‘the present state of Finland’s oil and vessel chemical pollution response capability is good,but not sufficient’. There is not going to be any change to this very item, but there is a good record in the Government Programme of improving the fight against oil. I want to ask you something. How will this come about? Is there a sufficient level of preparedness? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u92	Congressman Kinnunen, Jari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u93	Thank you, Madam President. When the police are added tasks, it is usually said that the money is in the frame. Here in the barrel of wishes there are many new tasks for the police, always being presented, every year, but this funding is not just being arranged in such a way that it is over-election. When we were just talking about the fact that there was a foreigner here who had been subjected to a threat of expulsion or conversion, I would say that I have converted more people from this country than there are benches in this Chamber, and I am very proud of that,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u96	And before the Minister is given the floor, the chairman of the committee, Mr Purra. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u97	Thank you, Mr President. We have to wonder a little when, like many others, we asked ourselves about these residence permits for illegal residents, as well as other immigration-related ones, but the Minister did not answer them at all. Perhaps now, in this second reply, you will deal with these. In general, I am a little concerned about this internal security situation, given that the Ministry of the Interior is constantly coming forward with proposals and reports which are said to be not in line with the government's position. This is not just the first, but we remember that a moment ago a significant relaxation of family reunification was also such a theme. We put it in the middle of something. The government parties said that this was the Ministry of the Interior's own project and not the government's position. I would also like to ask: what has happened to this loosening up of family reunification?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u98	And now, Minister Mikkonen, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u99	Thank you, Speaker! And thank you again for a good conversation. Indeed, I was told just now that I am getting at least a few answers here. In the previous one, I focused first and foremost on the police and the rescue service, which raised a lot of questions. I thought that this latter speech would then deal with the issues of Raja and the Emergency Response Centre and Migri, the issues of immigration, and, of course, if there is any rise, as has been the case, then new themes. Indeed, at the border, these big projects are necessary, both for the replacement of ships and then for the replacement of machinery. These are projects for which it is intended to ensure that we make progress in these areas during this term of government. In fact, with regard to Raja's vessels, when it was also asked about environmental damage and the fight against oil pollution: these are the vessels that can be used to combat oil. These are these multi-purpose vessels which ensure that a wide range of activities can be carried out. Of course, with regard to this issue of oil control, it is critical that this ÖSRA fund is now changing. In the past, for example, it has been possible to finance oil pollution investments, training and so on, and now that it is planned that this fund will be dismantled, we must ensure that sufficient resources will then be secured in the future, so that there will be resources for this as well. There was also a question about the adequacy of performance and resources at the border. Well, Raja is, in the same way, one of these security authorities, which must be adequately resourced in the future. Of course, resources will always be used as necessary. For example, there is quite a lot of work to be done now in the corona period when border men and women have been transferred to the region where they needed to be, for example, when internal border controls were included, so that, where necessary, staff will also be used and targeted where they need to be. And while technology has its own help in doing so, it is quite true that there is indeed a need for sufficient staff. Well, here's to the immigration side. First of all, I want to say that nobody is really illegal. Fortunately, the same thing came out of the mouths of many, and that is how it is. Then there was much to be said about this situation of illegal immigrants and those in the country. In other words, last spring the government approved this LAMA programme, which I think is now the fourth in all, where there are about 50 measures to ensure that there is no illegal entry or presence here. There are activities in relation to countries of origin, transit countries, border operations as well as those already here. There are indeed these two reports, on which there has now been a great deal of shaving, but the studies are being carried out, and then the government together will have the place to see if there are any proposals that can be implemented. [MariBantasy Call] I think this is a good example of Mr Hopsu's example that we have a situation where we have people here who have worked for years.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u102	We shall now proceed to the list of — Representative Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u103	Mr President! The budget package of the Ministry of the Interior contains a number of good appropriations. On the one hand, the government will increase the resources of those who maintain everyday security, improve the implementation of people’s legal security, but at the same time assume global responsibility. In an interdependent world, it is no longer possible to choose either or. Yet, when I did not have a reply just now, to this one-off legalisation which was discussed: its idea is exactly what more Members were after here. In other words, these so-called individual cases — each individual case — can be dealt with and dealt with with the possibility of a permanent residence permit. It is a normal procedure used by many European countries when the state's own licensing processes have stretched to an unacceptable length in human terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u108	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u109	Mr President! From the outset, we have to ask whether the government is seeking savings here. If anyone can stay here in the Republic of Finland, we can then stop the asylum investigation, what is being done, we can stop the legal proceedings as to whether or not someone can stay here, and everyone else is involved in this matter. After all, it will be quite a saving — if it is so that everyone can stay here at the end of the game, whatever the court decides. But let’s get to the point — I can’t understand that. Let's go with this funding, the long-term funding of the security authorities and the judicial authorities. In fact, 2015 was the parliamentary task force that I was then allowed to run. Even then, we made a proposal, among other things, to exclude ict and real estate costs from the basic funding of all these security and judicial authorities, human resources. Well, it didn't happen. In addition, the aim was long-term funding for both security and judicial authorities over the parliamentary term. Well, it didn't happen. In addition, it was the third idea that all the authorities from the emergency centre to the prison will receive balanced funding. It didn't happen. But the situation can be corrected and agreed again that we will correct these matters, and of course we will make a moderate increase in the funding of all the safety authorities. Because this is going to get better. Then, Mr President, a little about the police situation. It is wonderful that funding has now been increased, and the opposition will be commended for the fact that the issue has been raised and the government has provided this funding. But it's just a little worthless annual play that the police and all the other authorities have to whine about money. Everyone should have more long-term funding, not just for the police. Now, in recent times, prosecutors have been in public on the part of the judicial authorities. And it must be the case that emergency services, emergency services, emergency services, paramedics, police, customs in the fight against crime, the Border Guard and, when you go to court, prosecutors, the judiciary, legal aid and the Rise receive equal and adequate funding. After all, the police environment has changed enormously. There have been street gangs, and there are young people on the streets who commit very violent acts, crimes. Organised crime is growing, and unfortunately, as was said here, it has not been sufficiently addressed. We have different new criminal organisations, and organised crime is a cancer of society and must be tackled. I hope that there will be a stronger approach to this. And, unfortunately, when earmarking these things from this Parliament, which the police are doing, the fight against organised crime should be at the very beginning. On the other hand, I will throw back the idea that how this kind of basic police activity, the management of alarm missions, the investigation of daily crimes — they are under considerable pressure. People don't get justice when their case is on the investigator's desk. Well, so much for the police, but just a few more minutes from the emergency services. Indeed, it is great that training is being increased because, as I said, the emergency services are in distress. There are also problems with the working environment and coping. The Audit Committee has produced a report on this, and I hope that the Minister will address these issues, because it is the first link in its assistance, and if it does not work, then nothing else will work. I already told you about the rescue. Indeed, the rescue service needs EUR 81 million more money, and it is the right of every Finnish citizen to get help at a time of need, regardless of the authority, whether it is a fire department or a paramedic or a police officer or whatever. And I must say that it is a cheap business: when the savior comes through the doors and carries out the apartment, an average of EUR 65 is the price of the service. And the service of many other authorities is equally cheap. It can't be that there isn't enough funding for this. I hope that in future we will have a parliamentary working group that will take this forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u110	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u111	Mr President! It is important that adequate resources for the various actors involved in internal security are directed in a long-term and over-regime. This is not a government-opposition issue; it is a question of ensuring the safety of Finns. The government has increased police budgets, and they are bigger than ever this year. Still, there's plenty to do. I think it is important that this government has also wanted to invest in internal security in other ways that affect the environment in which the police operate. The importance of prevention cannot be overemphasized. It is human and, in the long term, it provides greater security than cost savings. Anchovy and godmother police activities are good examples of preventive action. Third sector organisations could be used even more in this work. It is important for the police to develop information gathering in order to combat cybercrime. The fight against online crime against children and young people is particularly important. The Committee on Finance had also drawn attention to this. It is important that the work of the police on equality and equality continues. In the police, the great strength lies in people coming from different backgrounds and various kinds of expertise. The aim is to strengthen, promote and monitor the thinking of equality and equality, as well as diverse recruitment and equal opportunities for career development. In particular, it is important to encourage representatives of ethnic minorities to seek a police administration. Consultations with committees have also highlighted the availability of Swedish-speaking staff. It is crucial that public security services can be secured in practice in both Swedish and Finnish. The training of Swedish-speaking professionals in police services, emergency centre operations and rescue services is key. This was also raised in the debate. It is important that the implementation of the grey economy agenda is continued. To eradicate the shadow economy, sufficient resources are needed for the authorities. They must be secured by both supervisory, criminal and enforcement authorities. This fight against the black economy is also closely linked to organised crime, and good speeches have also been made here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u112	Congressman Rantanen, Piritta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u113	Mr President! The experience of safety or insecurity is unique to all of us. It consists, among other things, of our relationships, daily livelihoods, power relationships, exclusion and acts of violence and accidents around us. The internal security of our country is built on addressing and preventing the root causes of these issues and on how the authorities can respond to them. Mr President! The government's objective has been to secure 7500 police resources. The scarcity of resources and the slumpiness of resources have for a long time been overshadowed by police work. However, the police budget has been increased by more than EUR 100 million since 2017, and this year the police budget is higher than ever before. For its part, increasing the number of police officers is a matter of maintaining public confidence in the authorities, but the increase in appropriations must not be limited to the rental of premises or the acquisition of ict. The less crimes are investigated and the less police appear in the street picture across the country, the more confidence is lost and citizens take advantage of their own rights. In many ways this year has been a special and heavy one, and I would like to thank all the police and other authorities who are responsible for maintaining our security for the important work you have done. Our society, especially in this time, needs cooperation in all sectors, not division or hate speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u114	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u115	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The government is therefore preparing a solution to give an estimated 3,000 illegal asylum seekers a one-off residence right in Finland. This question was strongly raised in that debate, and many questions were asked about it. Many of these questions were not answered, Madam Minister. That is why I will come back to these questions in this speech. Finland is a European cultural and constitutional state, and Finland provides international protection to those in need in accordance with international agreements. As we know, for example, there were a huge number of asylum seekers among asylum seekers in 2015, mainly from Iraq, which, according to the Finnish legal order, were not in need of international protection. They applied for asylum, received a negative decision from the Finnish Immigration Service, received a negative decision from the Administrative Court and, if necessary, a negative decision from the Supreme Administrative Court. After that, they applied again and again and again, and many of these are still in Finland. Thousands of their compatriots followed the solutions of the Finnish legal order and voluntarily left Finland to return to their homeland. It certainly wasn’t nice; Finland is the best country in the world, and in comparison, for example It is quite clear to Iraq that life in Finland is better and safer in every way than in Iraq, in general terms. Now, Minister, you are preparing a solution in which asylum seekers who did not agree to leave but illegally remain in Finland would be rewarded for this insubordination by obtaining legal residence in Finland. So we're talking about these people. The question is: do you think that it is right to reward those who, unlike their compatriots, have refused to comply with the decisions of the Finnish courts? The second question is: what would the meaning of the whole asylum process mean for us to be able to stay in Finland in the end, not only for those applicants for asylum who are in need of international protection, but also for those asylum seekers who are not in need of international protection but who are looking for a better life in Finland, which in itself is completely understandable and human, but is not a reason for giving international protection? Thirdly, Finland is already an attractive country for asylum seekers. It was seen in the autumn of 2015 when thousands of asylum seekers across Europe arrived here in the background of Finland. What, Minister, do you think it would mean that Finland's attraction would be to spread the knowledge that, ultimately, everyone who got here will still be allowed to stay in the country? What would this mean as an attraction to those asylum seekers who know that they have no basis for obtaining international protection? Representative Hopsu drew attention to the atmosphere in our country in relation to immigration. I also think that this concern is justified in some respects. I personally think that such projects, which are currently being prepared by the government, are not improving this climate in relation to these issues. Finally, I would like to say that, on the basis of individual considerations, asylum seekers who have been very well integrated into our country, have been educated, have studied the language, have been able to work, I believe that a residence permit can be granted on the basis of work — as is already the case at present. Finally, President, I think it was a good thing that the government decided to increase the number of quota refugees after the change in the situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u116	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u117	Madam President, Minister! We need a lot of staff on the rescue side, we need training, and we need a lot of rescuers for the whole of Finland; thousands, thousands and thousands. I am also concerned about that area in Kuopio. I come from North Savo, and there is a Rescue College in Kuopio, the funding of which we have been very concerned about in the region. People in the rescue sector are being trained at the Kuopio Rescue College. The training has been effective there, and the framework for the implementation of the training in Kuopio is very good. There has been a shortage of rescuers and additional funding is needed for training. I asked a written question earlier, that is to say, to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Ohio, and she answered it. He explained that the government is proposing an additional amount of 1.95 million to increase the Rescue College's rescue training and to implement the Swedish-speaking rescue training. This Emergency College is located in Kuopio, and, on the 14th of the 14th, there was no mention that this 1.95 million was targeted specifically at Kuopio Emergency College. The proposal for an additional allocation states that the rescue action will be proposed to increase the amount of EUR 350000 and the amount of EUR 1.6 million for organising a Swedish-speaking rescue course. The presentation does not specify where each funding goes, and it would be interesting to know how this is going as a living in the Kuopio area, and it would be important to know how much of this funding is there for Kuopio, and how the ongoing funding of this Kuopio Rescue College will be arranged. I would like answers to these. I have put a written question on this, a more precise question, but I think its answer is now late. The Minister has not answered that question yet — that is more than three weeks since I asked this question — and that is why our representatives in the region are making a proposal to this effect, that what additional funds would now be allocated fairly: that is to say, the EUR 2.1 million to this increase in the Rescue College's rescue training. I'd like to hear more about this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u118	Congressman Löfström is gone. — Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u119	Mr President! The fact that the government is now actually planning to legalise at least 3000 illegal asylum seekers and progress in this process is, in my view, extremely worrying. Compared to other Nordic countries and many EU countries, Finland is already an attractive country for asylum seekers — in a negative sense. We need immigrants here to work and study and build this society, but it is completely questionable whether it is worth raising our reputation as a country that attracts asylum seekers. I am very concerned about this situation, and I believe that Mr Zyskowicz has just raised the concerns that we in the Assembly have. But on another point: on the one hand, I would also like to thank the government for adding to the police the appropriations that it lacked next year and, on the other hand, for listening to the concerns about this rescue situation. Now, if you think about this social welfare reform, for example, only 2% of its future funding will be allocated to the rescue service, and that is a really small part, given the importance of their work. In its alternative budget, the Coalition Party increased EUR 3.75 million for rescuers. By the end of this decade, we will need 2,500 more rescuers. And because we have too few of them, in practice it also means that there are parents in the practical work and, in part, even more debilitating saviors, and it has its own effect, of course, on their own lives, but also on the results that can be achieved in the rescue activities. And thirdly, Mr President, I would like to raise this issue, which was raised by Mr Tolvanen and Mr Risikko, among other things, by this increase in violence and gang activity among young people. We are on the Swedish road, worryingly, but also in a situation where we still have the opportunity to intervene when we take the right measures. I would like to ask you, Mr Mikkonen, how are you prepared in next year's budget for this particular reduction and fight against gang violence?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u120	Like this. And now the general debate and the debate will be suspended at this stage and will be resumed later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u122	Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior’s administrative sector covers 1.6 billion from next year’s budget. This sum ensures the internal security of Finland and Finns. Until a few months ago, this section looked much worse, but fortunately the necessary increases in resources have now been made. That is the only way we can ensure that the safety authorities are able to operate and that the citizens have a high level of confidence in them. The Committee on Budgets rightly considers it necessary that the next budgetary plan for the years 23 to 26 should assess the long-term security of appropriations for the entire administrative sector. In this way, basic activities would not have to be financed repeatedly with one-off annual appropriations. In particular, police appropriations and their inadequacy have been mentioned annually, including this year, and it is therefore important that a non-police group set up by the Government examines the use and adequacy of the police budget. This study is important in order to provide us with information on what kind of corrective measures we will have to make in the future. It must be possible to increase the number of police officers by 7500 person-years by the year 23, and this must be adhered to. In addition to human resources, it is important to ensure the maintenance and development of police equipment and equipment. An additional EUR 10 million has been allocated for this year. However, there is still a gap, for example in the case of police cars and boats. It is therefore important to consider the budgetary technical means proposed by the Committee on Finance for a stronger breakdown of staff, real estate, ict and equipment expenditure in the budget in the future. This would avoid that, in the absence of other necessary expenditure, this deficit would not be offset by reductions in staff. The current changing security situation reminds us of the need to take particular care about border security. The border guard must be prepared and able to perform. In this respect, it is important that the Border Guard equipment is also in order. A total of EUR 325 million is currently being acquired by two outposts. In the future, two surveillance aircraft will also be expected to start the procurement within a few years of their lifetime. Mr President! In the case of rescue services, there is concern, just as in so many other areas, a growing shortage of workers. Improving the operational capability of the rescue service alone and changes related to the availability of emergency services will create an additional need for about a thousand rescuers over the next ten years. This need must be met by doubling the number of rescue training. The positive thing is that municipalities have increased the funding of rescue services by around EUR 16 million this year. This will close the funding gap for the rescue services before the establishment of welfare areas. The Emergency Response Centre Agency has struggled throughout its history with regard to staff adequacy and access to trained personnel. The number of emergency services has been increased. This can be seen in the number of graduates in a year. In the case of an emergency centre, it is important to continue work to reduce the burden on staff. The Emergency Response Centre Agency is a key and necessary actor to ensure the availability of the police, emergency services and ambulances and thus to ensure people’s access to assistance and security. As regards immigration, it is important that Finland’s success in global competition for experts is supported through decision-making. It is therefore important that applications for residence permits for specialist experts and growth entrepreneurs should be processed for a maximum period of 14 days in the future. The number of new asylum applications has been low, which has helped to reduce the congestion in older applications. In the future, it is important that the long-term functioning and development of the Finnish Immigration Service be secured through permanent funding. At the end, we could say that next year's budget is in place, but in many respects reforms are needed to secure funding and to develop activities in order to ensure long-term action. This will ensure the work of the internal security actors. The Committee on Finance therefore put forward many good proposals for solutions to these challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u123	Thank you. — Representative Semi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u124	Mr President! It is important that the government has paid attention to increasing everyday security and the number of police officers. The conditions under which Raja operates have also been taken into account, and this is important, as Raja is doing preventive work on the import of drugs and other illicit things. The future need for rescuers has also been taken into account here. Almost EUR 2 million of additional funding will be allocated to strengthen the rescue training. The number of places to start training will be increased one-off by 24 students. In order to secure the number of Swedish-speaking rescue staff, a Swedish-speaking 30-student course will be organised. The Swedish course is conducted as a regional course organised by the Rescue College in Kuopio, Finland, in cooperation with another regional rescue service. The Appendix ensures equality, availability and quality of service areas throughout the country. The increase in the refugee quota also reflects the government's desire to improve the safety of everyday life. It's a little bit more than that. An important step is that the chains of the judicial process are strengthened. That is a very good thing. The Government will add EUR 3 million in order to strengthen the prosecution process and the functioning of the Court of Justice in order to reduce the length of the hearings. It is a good thing that the investigation and judicial process are running smoothly. It is also a good thing in terms of the individual's legal security that decisions need not be waited for years. Mr President! With regard to this adequacy of the police force, I would like to raise one further issue relating to the police administration. The Administrative Committee also consulted Licentiate of Administrative Sciences Heikki Mansikka-aho, who has examined the activities of the police administration and the development measures taken for his doctoral dissertation. The doctoral dissertation examined the impact of the reform of the administrative structure on the development of services provided to citizens. The study assessed the impact of concentrating activities and increasing the regional size of the organisation on the efficiency, resources and service capacity of police activities. According to the overall assessment of the study, structural reforms have meant a deterioration in the internal security situation in society for citizens, particularly in the regions and regions outside the capital region as a safety vacuum — despite the increase in the necessary appropriations in a number of budgets. One of his messages was that the police government spends EUR 7.8 million more than the savings target, which means that the police administration eats over 100 police salaries into its administration. Mr President! I would also like the Audit Committee to take the structure of the police administration under scrutiny in order to make it clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u125	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi absent. — Mr Yrttiaho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u126	Thank you, Mr President. The adequacy of the operational staff and substitutes of the rescue services is a cause for concern on the eve of the implementation of the reform of social and health care and rescue services. In many areas around Finland, there is a shortage of rescue personnel and there are not enough applicants for posts and replacements. The resource gap is estimated to be over 80 million by 2030. Due to the lack of beneficiaries, rescue services are increasingly forced to use contract firefighters and students in rescue and replacement jobs. Contract fire brigades are an important part of the rescue operation, but of course they cannot be relied on to replace the rescue personnel. Even if rescue services have the resources to recruit staff, no applicants have registered for open positions despite the companies. The main reason for this shortage is the current education situation: there are simply too few places to start. The Rescue Trade Union (SRAL) has also stressed the importance of the industry’s attractiveness, i.e. the competitive remuneration of its staff, well-being at work and working conditions that promote safety. There is a need for 2,500 new rescuers to make up for the retirement of the sector’s staff and the changes in working time related to reserve by 2030. However, only about 1,500 rescuers will be completed at the current startpoints from Kuopio Rescue College and Helsinki Rescue School by 2030. There would therefore be about 1,000 rescue professionals missing. According to SPAL, the operational security of the Emergency Response Centre will also be severely reduced by the continuing deficit of some 40 Emergency Response Centres. The Ministry of the Interior has set up a reform project to prepare revisions of the national emergency services and emergency services training system, training programmes, qualifications and funding. The aim is to reform the emergency services and emergency services training system to meet national needs and changes in the operating environment and to assess the future personnel needs of emergency services and emergency services. The reform project will end at the end of 22 and a new education system will be introduced during the years 23 to 24. Rescue professionals are the basis for rescue operations. Emergency response is a critical factor for everyday safety, which needs to be able to function properly. If a sufficient number of rescue professionals cannot be secured, there is a risk that citizens' access to assistance will be slowed down and security will be reduced. The resources of emergency services and emergency centres and the competitive remuneration of professionals and good working conditions must be safeguarded. The reform of education and training must provide sufficient start-up places and provide sufficient funding to address the skills gap. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u127	Thank you. — Representative Eestilä absent, representative Kettunen absent, representative Talvitie absent, representative Hopsu absent. — Representative Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u128	Mr President! A report on the granting of a residence permit illegally to asylum seekers in Finland in 2015 and 2016 or previously arrived has been presented in connection with the section of the Ministry of the Interior. The Greens in their party programmes can deal with such matters in the world, but let me be frank: with this report, Minister Mikkonen is wasting the resources of the Ministry of the Interior he is running. This matter was already discussed during the government negotiations, and there it was rejected. The Ministry of the Interior could therefore focus on the implementation of the Government Programme rather than an unnecessary investigation against the Government Programme. Under no circumstances will this anti-government issue proceed under any circumstances. I repeat: this anti-government issue will not proceed under any circumstances by the government. Minister Mikkonen and the Greens are not equal to the Government's line. Mr President! It is inconceivable that the report has been continued, even though the SDP and the Centre's Management Committee groups unequivocally rejected this report earlier. [Department : Money waste! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u131	Thank you. — Representative Kopra absent. — — — — Congressman Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u132	Thank you, Mr President! According to the Ministry of the Interior, in the context of the rescue services reform, the funding gap in the current system has been identified, which is estimated to be more than EUR 80 million. In addition to this deficit, the service level deficiencies in the rescue services and the need to change the reserve system are creating upward pressure on costs. At the same time, however, information has come from the provinces that cuts are being made to the service level and to the station network in order to achieve savings, i.e. staff and fire stations are being reduced. The Regional State Administrative Agency that supervises the rescue operation has issued regulations to the rescue services in various parts of Finland on the organisation of operations and service levels in accordance with the regulations. In addition to the funding gap, the need for up to 2500 new firefighters in the rescue sector has been identified by 2030, the funding of education must be secured in both Kuopio and Helsinki. In order to achieve sufficient numbers of eligible applicants in the sector in the future, its attractiveness must be increased, and Parliament can contribute to this by, for example, reviewing the current retirement age of firefighters downwards. Mr President! The government, told by the Minister for the Interior, is aware of these shortcomings in the rescue sector. However, the additional budget allocated by the government to the rescue service at the moment is nothing more than a lump sum compared to the real need. In addition, it would be important to explain what the government is doing to remedy this. Does the government intend to secure adequate funding for the rescue service and continue to ensure, by means of regulations, that there are sufficient staff to carry out the tasks safely and that assistance is provided within the time limits? And is the government prepared to contribute to the attractiveness of the sector by, for example, reducing the current retirement age? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u133	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u134	Mr President! Of course, this government plan to grant a residence permit to asylum seekers who have received a negative decision is extremely worrying. There was already a debate today. In practice, this means that illegal immigration will be made legal in a certain way, and this government plan would indeed undermine the very foundations of the asylum system. If people have unlawfully refused to leave the country after having received a negative decision, they would in a certain way receive a little as a reward for this residence permit, and it seems strange that the government, under the leadership of Minister of the Interior Krista Mikkonen, is doing this kind of preparation. There has been a good debate here on the state of fire and rescue. If I first say that I would like to thank the government for having decided, with the heavy public pressure and the pressure from the opposition, to withdraw the drastic cuts planned for the police. Thank you for listening to security concerns, but also to people's concerns, and it was decided to cancel these cuts. The same thing has not happened here on fire and rescue. This funding gap is significant. It has come up here from representatives of the government parties, from those on the left side and from those on the right side of the opposition. This concern is common here in Parliament, and this is something that the Marin Government should respond to. We have a rescue deficit of around 1000 to 2000 very quickly and a very large budget deficit, and it is unreasonable to move towards regional government without giving these regional governments the opportunity and resources to deal with this fire and rescue operation. This is the situation now that regional governments are faced with a choice as to whether to treat cancer patients or to put fire trucks in motion, and this is an entirely unreasonable situation. If the funding is not in order, then one of them will have to compromise. Now the government must quickly bring a solution to how to get the fire and rescue services to work. Finally, I would also like to highlight this important role of the fire brigades. I think it is an important role to play alongside professional fire brigades. It could even be compared to the fact that we have a reserve army... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u135	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u136	Mr President! Now Mr Kettunen will certainly answer these questions, when in the last few days much has been said about this distribution of alien passports to these who are not entitled to be in Finland, there is no asylum or who have not received a residence permit. I quote from this afternoon’s paper: ‘The Government Programme of Prime Minister SannaMarin has registered that ‘the prevention and prevention of undocumented work by a wide-ranging authority ‘and’the Government is developing legislation I am surprised at this if we are to dismantle the Finnish asylum policy by means of such rules, i.e. the records of the government programme, which the centre has joined in with, and to change it so that these people start registering alien passports and allowing them to stay in Finland. In that regard, Minister Haavisto said some time ago that the European Union has a return agreement in Iraq, for example, and can be returned to it through voluntary return or through criminal activity. I believe that a person who is trespassing in Finland without the right to be in Finland is a criminal and should be returned there on that basis under an EU agreement. There's no record of how serious that crime should be. I can't believe this. This may not be smart to say, but this goes beyond all the humor magazines that have been published decades ago. This is so absurd that the law on asylum in Finland would be scrapped with such nonsense. I am surprised that the Centre Party, which has said that they are against this, still allows this from the Ministry of the Interior and Minister Mikkos. If I say so again, I am absolutely ashamed on behalf of the employees of the Ministry of the Interior who put forward such things. If they do not themselves understand what they are doing, then from here someone should now say that they will stop playing such games and playing games. - I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u137	Thank you. — Representative Semi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u138	Thank you, Mr President. When we were just talking about the state of the rescue service and the needs of the future, by 2030 there will be about a thousand survivors. Then this decision by the Supreme Administrative Court, which turned the rescuers’ reserve time into overtime, leads to a total need for 1,500 rescuers. Representative Heinonen also raised the importance of the voluntary contract fire brigade in the Finnish rescue service and its tasks. It is described very well, for example, by the fire in Kalajoki last summer. In it, 90 per cent were volunteers from the fire brigade who worked there to prevent the spread of the fire and put it out. It is a very important resource in Finnish rescue operations. The Committee on Administrative Affairs has also submitted a report on the fact that there is a very great need for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u139	Thank you. — Mr Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Now I have to say to a few of my fellow Members that I pretended to have just given a speech in which I explained how the parliamentary group in the centre feels about this report by Minister Mikkonen. I said in my speech that it is incomprehensible that the report has been continued, even though the SDP and the Centre's administrative committees unequivocally rejected the report earlier. We have not accepted this. There is no government report that has been approved. And in addition to this, I noted that the matter was discussed in the government negotiations, and it was also rejected there. There is no such report in the Government Programme either, so, Mr Mäenpää, the Centre has certainly not agreed to this. Mr Heinonen also spoke about the Government's report. I say now, I do not know for many times: there is no such government report. It hasn't been approved by the city center.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u141	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen. — All I have to say is that we have a budget for the Ministry of the Interior here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u142	Honorable Mr. Speaker! That's exactly what I'm talking about. — Thank you, Mr Huttunen, for coming to clarify this further. You made a very good and commendable speech about that toilet, and now Mr Mäenpää has clarified this situation. I would like to comment to the extent that, indeed, if this asylum system of ours is now wrecked or scrapped in accordance with such presentations, then I think Mr Tolvanen made a good speech earlier today that then all this kind of asylum investigation can finally be brought to an end and then let everything into this country. President! There is also talk of immigration in the area of work-related immigration: After work, many people move to this country, each year they have moved over many years, and then, for their part, this process of residence permits has become congested, i.e. as regards the processing of applications for work and study-based residence permits. It would be hoped that this sum will be dismantled and that there will be elements to deal with, in the case of applications for processing work-related immigration. I regret, President-in-Office, that although there are other important issues in this administrative sector, they mean to drown in this debate on immigration policy for Finns. There have been some excellent speeches from the police. Now, the police budget, which has now finally been increased, is being directed, in accordance with the Government Programme, at the allocation of resources to the operational activities of the police. The appropriations will be allocated in such a way as to ensure the presence and visibility of the police, especially in areas where there is a lower level of service, such as sparsely populated areas. As a renegade Member of Parliament, I must thank you for finally seeing a little more of the police, in the sparsely populated countryside of Kainuu, a long distance away, in line with these measures. It is also a pity, President, that at this time of night no more mention is made of the Border Guard, of the good additions and targets that have been made for important activities, to ensure that the guards at our borders are made. We have acquired equipment there, and we will see to it that the guards at our borders get a proper environment for the hard work they have done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u143	Thank you. — Representative Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Semi gave a distinguished speech regarding the rescue service and mentioned that 90% of the firepower was extinguished in connection with the fire in Kalajoki. This is true and is largely due to the fact that the minimum strengths of full-time fire personnel in service level decisions have been driven so low that they cannot be sent, because if they were sent to other regions to a large extent, then the rescue and rotation of the area would be disrupted. And this is one of the things that should also be taken into account in future well-being areas, that both the full-time strengths are sufficient and also the capacity and resources of the fire-fighters in the contract, so that the rescue service can be secured throughout the country. The fire brigade is an extremely important part of the whole rescue operation and, in particular, in sparsely populated areas, where it is not economically viable to organise a rescue operation for the main operations, i.e. the systems support each other, neither replaces each other, but complement each other. This will continue to be the right model, but it is really important in the welfare regions to secure adequate resources and funding so that this activity can continue, because now, in many respects, the situation is that the strengths are small, the regional government agencies have given blame for this, have obliged rescue services to remedy the situation. In my own province. In Satakunta, cuts were made to the rescue service in response to the rescue director’s presentation. Fortunately, they now appear to be cancelled as a result of local decision-making, but the situation is serious, and I hope that both this Chamber and future regional councils and commissioners will take care of the rescue services. It has been said in many speeches that the police budget has already largely been corrected and should be included in the budgets. This should also be the case with the rescue services. However, it is a municipal activity. In the future, it may be necessary to find out whether the rescue services should be transferred to larger areas, to strengthen the administration, which would safeguard the existing network of stations and service levels. It should also be clarified whether rescue services should also be transferred to the State in the future, so that the actors responsible for internal security would be under the same ministry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u145	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u146	Mr President! For Mr Huttunen, I would like to read this interpretation of the Evening Journal, which says: ‘Priority Minister SannaMarin’s Government Programme has registered that ‘to prevent and combat paperlessness through wide-ranging cooperation between authorities’. Based on the objectives of the Government Programme, the Ministry of the Interior set up a project to investigate the situation and solutions of unauthorised persons in the country. Two studies will be carried out. One of these is based directly on the entry in the Government Programme and examines a legislative amendment that would allow a residence permit and an alien passport to be issued to an asylum seeker who has received a negative decision and has been employed.’ This is according to the government program, at least according to this news. I have a government program over there in my own office, but I don't doubt it. The evening paper from any wall has torn this thing apart. This may be a little interpretative, and perhaps Mikkonen and the Ministry of the Interior and Mikkonen's predecessor have been able to paint this in this way in the Ministry, but I wonder now that you other government parties will not be able to stop this. It would be as if Mr Kettunen would put his fist on the table and say that this is not going to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u147	Now I would ask that we discuss this evening's subject, namely the budget proposal or budget report from the Ministry of the Interior. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u148	Honorable Mr. Speaker! Representative Mr Huttunen made the centre's position on this point clear. I do not have to put my fists on the table tonight on this issue, because this is such a wink and clear thing. I stand behind Mr Huttunen's speeches, which are also the centre line. I do not think that we need to have a debate on this tonight. The most important thing — when it comes to internal security — is that police resources are secured. An amount of EUR 808 million is now being proposed for the police's operational expenditure. This is an increase of EUR 8.6 million compared to this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u151	Presentation of Section 27 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u152	Thank you, honourable Speaker! So, as chairman of the administrative section, I would like to present the contribution of the defence administrative sector to the budget report. There are two key elements in Section 27: the Defence Forces' operating expenditure, including personnel and real estate expenditure, and then the Defence Forces' military-specific purchases under their own articles. The essence of the report is, of course, to contribute to the acquisition of HX and the acquisition of Fleet 2020 and to the comments made on them. According to international practice, the share of defence expenditure in GDP is around 2.2, including military pensions and certain parts of the administrative sectors of the Ministry of Education and the Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The committee stated earlier that the draft budget for the administrative sector has been moving in a rather general direction, but, on the other hand, the detailed price data for these procurements cannot be opened publicly in the future. However, we have received more detailed information in the Administrative Section as a basis for decision-making and we consider the approach to be a step in the right direction. I shall now go over these two elements briefly. Approximately 1932 million is proposed for the Defence Administration's operating expenditure, which is 8 million fewer than in the current year's budget. Most of this is allocated to remuneration expenditure. Of course, the administrative sector is highly staffed. According to the Government Programme guidelines The military personnel will be increased by 100 new missions. In this budget, 7 million will be allocated. In the fourth additional budget for 21 years, 2.2 million were added to the recruitment of contract soldiers. This increase in 85 person-years will also reach around 350 person-years in 22. EUR 269 million will be spent on real estate expenditure. From the beginning of this year, the Defence Real Estate Corporation started. The committee welcomes this and welcomes it from the point of view of real estate management. The committee raises the issue of professional staff and wide-ranging competence in the field of new technologies. The capabilities required for defence must be maintained and developed in cooperation with the defence industry, universities, research institutes and our technology companies. In order to maintain and develop knowledge under all circumstances, it is also necessary to invest in research and development activities, including in the field of defence management. Public investment contributes to the success of our defence industry, including in international competition. The acquisition of HX contributes to opening up opportunities for industrial cooperation. The committee will add 200000 to the air operations at Kauhava airport next year. A total of 820 million is proposed for the acquisition expenditure item. The committee is also in favour of a new order authorisation of 155 million between 22 and 26 years. The order mandate for the year 22 will be stated: it will be 609 million. This article will continue to cover the acquisition of Fleet 2020. The mandate is $1,300 million. However, the acquisition appears to be delayed. The committee considers it necessary for the government, for its part, to ensure that the procurement schedule is kept and completed in 28 C.E. The acquisition of HX, i.e. the acquisition of multi-functional fighters, is proposed at 1522.5 million, most of which is used to pay pre-financing and stage payments. The previous report stated that these payments will be guaranteed by the supplier. I understand that this is also the case. The committee notes that the procurement of multi-functional fighters is proceeding according to the plan. The fighter selection was made last week. The total cost of the procurement is at the price level of 21, which corresponds to the maximum cost of the project. As a result, the item has index-linked expenditure of 22 and a half million. The Committee draws attention to the fact that these indices used by the defence industry are rising faster than normal indices. The acquisition used so-called fixed-price tender, design-to-cost, which requires the procurement to be budgeted as a whole. In this case, Parliament knew the total purchase price in connection with the decision, except for the costs of changes in indices or currency fluctuations. Operating costs will be up to a tenth of the defence budget. The same has also been used to maintain existing equipment. This approach has been specified in such a way that this share is calculated on the basis of annual defence expenditure excluding HX and Fleet procurements. 4.6 million will be allocated to the National Defence Training Association for operating costs resulting from the performance of the statutory public administration function. Honorable Speaker! Finally, the committee notes that Finland's military defence capability is a whole which is being developed in a balanced and long-term way over the parliamentary term. We welcome the fact that each type of weapon can be maintained and developed and, at the same time, the HX and Fleet procurements are carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u153	Yes, thank you. — Now Minister of Defence Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u154	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Much has happened on the defence front in recent months. The fall started with an evacuation operation in Kabul. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Furthermore, there is no reason to underestimate the current 22 budget as a safeguard against the Defence Forces. The Government Programme assumes that the maintenance of the defence capability corresponding to the development of the operating environment and its development conditions will be ensured by securing adequate resources for the Defence Administration. The budget follows the lines set out in the 17th Defence Report across the parliamentary term. The recent defence report, which received a very good reception in this Chamber, thanks to it, will bring the necessary continuity and backrest for the years to come. The results of the work of the Military Commission will also bring further restitution for the years to come. Strategic projects, The fleet 2020 project, and above all the HX project, will receive a significant share of the Ministry of Defence's section budget for the coming year. The administrative sector accounts for around 7.9 per cent of central government budget expenditure as a result of the HX project, while in recent years it has been without the HX project in the range of 5 to 5.5 per cent. Of course, once these projects have been carried out, we will then return to that previous measure. Finland’s defence will be developed in a long-term and systematic way as a whole in accordance with the requirements of the operating environment. On the basis of the report it has received, the Committee on Finance notes that the financing of the administrative sector will be able to provide not only strategic procurement but also the maintenance and development of defence and other components of the defence system. Mr President! The army was heavily invested in the 2010s, and the Army will continue to receive its share of development funding. In addition to the HX and Fleet 2020 projects, more than EUR 1 billion of the military defence funds presented for the coming year will be spent on material preparedness. The new order authority will develop, among other things, the use of the Army's fire and the movement of troops. The capabilities of the Army will be maintained with the planned resources in the coming years. In the longer term, the end of the life cycle of the Earthforce's key systems and the requirements of the operating environment in the 2030s will require a reform of the Earthforce from the end of the 2020s. Therefore, material readiness is being invested, but the basic budget of the defence administration is not increasing in the coming years. This poses a challenge to safeguard the Defence Forces’ level of activity, and the Defence Forces will have to look at the resources allocated for different purposes within the spending limits. Over the last two years, the corona pandemic has limited the number of refresher exercises. Hopefully next year we will be able to achieve the number of refresher exercises on the growth path, but there is no certainty about that at this stage. In addition to the additional funding for this purpose and the need for training, there is also a need for the Defence Forces' staff, the need to focus the additional staff received on the necessary tasks and the staff's ability to cope — and the corona pandemic, of course, next year too, unfortunately. Mr President! The size of the Defence Forces, some 8,000 professional soldiers and some 4,000 civilians, does not exactly correspond to the expanding field of mission of the Defence Forces. The strengthening of military preparedness and the new preparedness arrangements resulting from the change in the operating environment will be implemented by the same staff used to train military and reserve personnel. In addition to the development of traditional capabilities, resources are also needed for knowledge related to new technologies and for the development of cyberinformation and space performance. Based on the current Government Programme, the number of staff is expected to increase by 100 per person-years by 23. 15 new tasks will be set up next year. According to the recent report, the aim is to increase the number of personnel by 500 person-years gradually by the end of the 2020s, which will require additional resources during the next two government terms. The draft budget for 22 years does not include additional funding for the recruitment of contract soldiers in recent years, but sufficient appropriations will be made available for next year with the additional budget approved at the beginning of December. This is good for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u155	Thank you also to the Minister. — Well, it seems that there is a willingness to debat. — Start with the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence. Congressman Ronkainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for bringing the HX project to the finish line — an extremely vertebrate activity. This was an important project for Finland. Even the gravel sounds on the way were heard, but you didn't give up, that's good. And it is also important, in my opinion, that the experts in the Defence Forces were consulted strongly, because that is where the expertise is. The fight against climate change is quite strongly reflected in the Government's draft budget, and one of the Finnish Defence Forces' climate action is that military vegetarian day, a mandatory vegetarian day, when the garbage cans of military homes are filled with pizza packaging and the loss of vegetarian food is enormous. Furthermore, junk food does not serve the deteriorating fitness level of the garrison from one batch to the next. I would like to ask you, Minister: is there any point in this overall picture, is there a rejection of the climate or of the economy, or what? At least I don't see any sense in this personally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u157	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u159	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u160	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, as well as the budget decision of exactly one year ago, Parliament required, in such an HX project, that Hornet equipment be fully replaced in terms of its military capabilities and this is also proportionally. You, as Minister, have just told us that this F-35 proved to be absolutely the best in this respect, and we also have the information and understanding provided by the Ministry of Defence that in fact this Hornet fleet was exceeded by 15% with this F-35 project. Perhaps that would mean — and I ask the Minister — that this fullness of Hornet equipment could perhaps have been satisfied with between 50 and 54 F-35, which would save EUR 1.2 or 1.5 billion now depending on the number of fighters. Would this condition in the Parliamentary and Government Programme have actually been met by a smaller number of these F-35 fighters?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u161	And Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u162	Mr President! Indeed, it is excellent that the fighter project has been brought forward with political consensus and that 64 environmentally friendly fighters will soon curve in the Finnish sky. Performance remains and improves. By the way, this Department of Defense sector seems very serene. It is also important to take care of voluntary defence work, which is also an important development. The Committee on Finance proposes EUR 200,000 for Air Force Operations at Kauhava Airport for 2022, and the operation in Kauhava will therefore continue. When I have had a conversation with the representatives of the Air Force, the condition of this Kauhava field is such that this coating now needs action soon. When it's been two or three years, I'd like to ask if the Department of Defense has any.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u163	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u164	Mr President! Thank you for a really good HX fighter procurement decision. But I would like to ask about this part of the EU. Although the EU has significant capabilities at national level, the EU is the underachiever in military terms, especially with Brexit, when it was precisely this performance that went away most. Now, of course, the development of defence capabilities is also in common interest. Among other things, you raised the challenges of high technology, and you also remember, for example, hybrid threats and security of supply. But I would now like to ask: as the French Presidency is now approaching the turn of the year, what direction do you see France now going to take with it? NATO, however, is, for the majority of the EU countries, the actual defence solution, and here too, of course, we must think and avoid duplication.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u165	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u166	Thank you, honourable Speaker! I must join the Vice-President of the committee in thanking the decisions taken by the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence, but we too have in fact had only one party in the committee, the Finnish Party, which has dealt with these common defence issues forward, and this is an extremely important matter for a small nation. We've acquired a fleet, we've run a fighter project, and we've invested a record amount of money in the Defence Forces. When I have asked the Minister and the Ministry to intervene in this instance, the Minister has replied that this is the case. When the committee has asked for clarifications, or has drawn attention to a flaw, the Minister has replied that it is being taken into account that it is being implemented. This has been an extremely firm line and a pro-defence line, and it is worth sticking to this line. I would like to ask the Minister now that we have the Navy and the Air Force in place: what kind of development needs are next for the Army and perhaps for the Cyber?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u167	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u168	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his good work here as well. The year is coming to an end, and it has been successful for defence, defence policy. Now the last thing you need is these HX acquisitions. To begin with, Mr Ronkainen must say that increasing vegetarian food in the Defence Forces is not only a climate and environmental act, but also supports security of supply. We must also be on a sustainable footing in that regard. And my own experience of the Defence Forces training that I've been involved in is that that food has been excellent and it has been very well sold. Many plant proteins are produced in Finland, and it is also quite a growth sector, so it also supports this. But this HX. It is accompanied by this industrial cooperation, on which I believe the agreement is to be concluded with Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney in greater detail. Here, I think, 6,000 man-years had been estimated, but with what timetable is this going on in practice, I would have asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u169	Congressman Herbtiaho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u170	Mr President! Comments on the price of this HX acquisition or F-35 transaction and a question for the Minister: On the basis of Friday's press conference and the information provided by the Finnish Defence Forces and the Government, as some of the media concluded, there may be some misconceptions about this final price, but, as we heard in this presentation, at least that EUR 10 billion will be spent. Then the information comes on at least around 1.37 billion index increases, purchasing power adjustments and then exchange rate changes. Of course, cost developments are monitored for these indices, and even if the purchase price is as high as this, the small change in index percentages means quite a lot in central government funds. The real problem here is life-cycle costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u171	There's not enough time. — Ledamot Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u172	Irade the Talman! Jag vill också tacka försvarsministern för ett gott arbete och ett gott samarbete med försvarsutskottet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Ronkainen: The Lion Catering, who is responsible for the food of the garrison, introduced in 2018 a model in which — if I remember it correctly — there are two vegetarian meals a week, but when it is not the only meal of the day, there is more than vegetarian food in the day, so there has been no actual vegetarian day. It's not like there's just vegetarian food on the menu, according to my memory. This has now been and I understand that it has now been reasonably achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u176	Like this. — Let's continue with the debut for a while, that is, the V button and the rise, and then we can do it. — Representative Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for completing the HX project. It's very patriotic and powerful. I would also, of course, like to thank the Committee on Defence for its fine work, and it seems that defence policy is the best cohesion policy in the world. We're all in agreement with that great thing. From the point of view of defence, it is very important that our skies draw high performance equipment, and I personally welcome Lockheed Martin F-35A Lightning to Kauhava as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u178	And Mr. Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u179	Mr President! The Government Programme states that special attention will be paid to the performance of staff and The personnel of the Defence Forces will be increased by approximately 100 persons during the Government term. However, the Committee on Defence has stated that neither the increase in the personnel of the Government Programme nor the recruitment of fixed-term contract soldiers are sufficient to meet the personnel challenges of the Defence Forces, and concern has long been expressed about the staff's ability to cope. I would like to ask the Minister for his views on these matters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u180	Congressman Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u184	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u185	Honorable Mr. Speaker! Finland is not threatened by a military crisis, but our operating environment is difficult to predict. However, this government has invested heavily in defence. For that, I would like to thank this firm line for what the representative has to say. The Könta brought up, and behind the solid line is a strong Minister of Defense. At the heart of our defence is a well-trained and well-trained reserve. The training and refresher exercises of the reserve play an important role in maintaining and developing the fieldability of the reserve. Financial resources have been added to the refresher exercises during the current parliamentary term, but this pandemic has now contributed to the achievement of the number of refresher exercises. I would like to ask: have there been any new lessons from these that can be used in the planning of refresher exercises in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u186	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u187	Mr President! With regard to this F-35 acquisition, it must be said that it was likely that the solution that would last the longest flight under both life-cycle and air-fighting pressure, i.e. in that sense, the right solution, was reached. If that price is horrifying, then there is also a solution: That 250 million is only half the Yle-tax. I would much rather pay that money as a destroyer tax than as a High Tax. Although the Defence Forces act in a way worthy of praise at national level, this international activity raises some questions, namely whether or not Afghanistan has now been learned. When we entered the U.S. backyard war in time and when the U.S. failed in that war and came back with tail between our legs, we also flew with hundreds of refugees on our evacuation flights. But now, for example, Mali is now expanding the operation to support the war in the French backyard. What guarantees that in a few years' time, there will be no further evacuation flights? Is it in the interests of Finland’s defence that this project should be taken on board?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u188	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u189	Mr President! The pandemic, official assistance, reports, the Afghan crisis, from there the repatriation of Finns, the HX project — Mr. Minister, you have done a good job. All of these have been successful, and the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces have done well — thank you for that. This government is responsible for the defence of the military service — the number of refresher exercises is close to 20,000 in the next year’s budget — cybersecurity is being invested, which was already heard here, and these acquisitions are also being made with regard to staff. Of course, while there are always pressures to cope, that too will be taken care of. This is a good policy to be heard and a good one, which is still being done in cooperation between the various parties, including the opposition. I would also like to thank you for this Kauhava 200,000, which was acknowledged by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u190	Like this. — And now, Mr Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u191	Mr President! I too share the thanks for the completion of the HX project. Security threats have changed dramatically in recent decades. The danger is no longer just at the border, but also online as a hybrid effect and as an environmental threat. It is common to all these security threats that they are both global and local at the same time. Climate change is a good example of this. It is a global threat with significant local implications — a warning example of last summer's floods in Central Europe and Sweden, where there were also casualties. Finns also regard climate change as one of the biggest security threats of the future. According to a survey conducted by Eva, as many as 76 per cent of Finns consider global warming to be a very large or rather serious threat to Finland. Natural disasters, extreme weather phenomena, forest fires and floods caused by climate change are threats to safety that need to be prepared. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: how does the Ministry of Defence prepare for the various environmental threats caused by climate change?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u192	And the President of the Section responsible for the Finance Committee, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u193	Honorable Speaker! I am considering the issue from the point of view of central government finances, these fighter acquisitions and fleet 2020 procurements, and indeed these previous reports stated that the supplier will be required to provide guarantees in connection with these payments, stage fees and advance payments. This is obviously stated — I do not memorize this from others, but if this could be confirmed. The section was rather concerned about these purchases and, in fact, index expenditure, when the indices in the defence industry have now run much faster than the general cost indices, the prices of metals have even doubled. Will this fleet 2020 acquisition, among other things, remain within this order mandate, and what will happen? This is perhaps even a matter of some concern for central government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u194	And Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u195	Mr President! Thank you also, on my own behalf, to Minister Kaikkonen. He has done an excellent job and, in particular, elegantly and with dignity in view of the important role of the Minister. What I have read about the report by the Committee on Finance is, in a way, probably a proper observation that climate change must also be taken into account. I would say that I am more afraid of changing the climate than of climate change. If the atmosphere in this Finnish environment changes very drastically, to the cold side, it will certainly affect Finland's security more than climate change ever will. But with regard to this security of supply, I would like to ask the Minister: Now that we are entering a time that is likely to be more uncertain, security of supply is becoming increasingly important and especially the importance of the maintenance of equipment. Take, for example, such a simple example as trucks: we have a domestic truck manufacturer, but when you look at the Defence Forces vehicles there are very few Finnish trucks. Could we not make a domestic decision here, support a domestic company? He knows how to make trucks and many other good ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u196	Congressman Rantanen Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u197	Mr President! I will come back to this matter of defence which was already asked about here earlier. I belong to myself, and I'm sure quite a few people in this room belong to the generation that's still heard the war stories of grandparents, and that's how we've raised the will to defend the country in ourselves. But now that these generations are beginning to leave, in what ways might we try to grow this for younger generations? It is true that when I was allowed to attend the National Defense Course and there during the internatiary period, we met with the garrison, they themselves brought this up, that it would have been extraordinarily nice to have heard about this defence and the activities of the Defence Forces already in school. Now I know that this committee work did not put anything like this in primary schools, but could it be thought of by the minister to be promoted, so that even younger generations will have access to the Defence Forces at a very early stage and then to the will to defend the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u198	And Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u199	Mr President! Thank you very much to Minister Kaikkonen for his straightforward work and to the Committee on Defence for its unanimous work. The pillars of our defence must be taken care of: military duty, a skilled reserve, defence of the entire country, the will to defend the country and national unity. In the future, local troops will be developed to make the expertise and knowledge of the reservists available. Local forces are important to defend the country as a whole, and I believe that it will contribute to increasing the enthusiasm for national defence and also to increasing the will to defend each country's own country. I would like to ask the Minister what action is to be taken in this area next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u200	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u201	Mr President! Many European countries, not least our neighbour to the West, thought after the end of the Cold War and after the break-up of the Soviet Union that the era of power politics was over. Fortunately, this was not the case in Finland. It was known here that the economic cycle could change and, unfortunately, they have done so, because, unfortunately, since the 2010s and now the 2020s, tensions in Europe have risen in a worrying way once again. The key structural factor in Finland’s defence is explicitly the most credible possible independent defence capability. And in this context, I would like to thank the Minister, like many other colleagues here, for the responsible work that Finland has done now that the fighter project has moved forward. This will ensure that Finland is not the kind of piece that the Cossack easily removes, and in that, Mr Minister, you have done an excellent job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u202	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u203	President! Indeed, this is how a defence-minded government has invested heavily in defence, and for this I would like to thank the Minister of Defence, with his staff and also the Defence Committee. When the minister is there in the box, I can't help but ask my question about military fitness. It is no secret that the physical fitness of the garrison has deteriorated over the decades. In my opinion, that is a defensive problem. It's not the Defence Forces' fault, but the Defence Forces may be part of the solution. My question is: will the future budget provide sufficient room for improvement in the garrison condition? I am referring, for example, to the exercise of regular staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u205	Like this. — And now the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, Mr Ronkainen, and then we will hear the Minister’s reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u206	Mr President! The development of defence is a long-term activity. In my previous speech, I thanked Minister Kaikko for bringing the HX project to the finish line, but it should also be borne in mind that the HX project was launched just over six years ago, during the previous government. This is where Mr Könttä gave a good speech that we have one party in the field of defence, and that is how it should be, it is definitely in the interests of Finland. I am concerned about these declines in age groups. Although the will to defend the country is high, it is known, however, that the age groups will be reduced and, at the same time, the number of persons undergoing military training will be reduced. Invitations were made by the Parliamentary Committee for women, where there could be one such opportunity to recruit more women for military service, but does the Minister have any information?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u207	And after the Minister's reply, we will move on to the list of speakers. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u211	Thank you. — And now we are really moving on to the list of speakers. Congressman Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u212	Mr President! Finland is a country worthy of defence. Under the leadership of Minister Kaikkonen, the Government invests in the defence of our country with an historic large defence budget. Action is being developed on land, at sea and in the air. The latest evidence is the completion of the fighter project — congratulations on that! As far as possible, the timetable for the project should be adhered to. A free fatherland and a safe Finland has not come and evolved on its own, and it will not remain on its own either. Mr President! The pillars of our defence are the general military service of its time, the well-educated and regular training reserve, the defence of the entire country, the high will to defend the country and national unity. These pillars should be maintained and strengthened. The Government has decided to order multi-functional corvettes from Rauma Shipyard, and now the budget has taken into account the creation of 100 new tasks in the Defence Forces. The new tasks are divided into almost all Defence Forces organisations and regionally across Finland. The defense report stated that: The number of staff of the Defence Forces should be gradually increased by 500 person-years and is now on its way. It is good that human resources are focused specifically on core functions, the maintenance of operational capabilities, the training of military forces and the maintenance and development of new capabilities. The fourth amending budget provided for the recruitment of contract soldiers of over EUR 2 million. For young garrison leaders, this is a great opportunity to continue the service as a contract soldier as a follow-up to the military service. Mr President! The Government has decided to step up the training of the reserve. There is a desire to strengthen voluntary exercises, voluntary defence training and self-skills, such as opportunities for shooting. In the future, armed forces will be divided into operational forces and local forces according to the principle of use. Local forces are bringing national defenses close to home. The will to defend the country is emphasised during this time when the border between war and peace has become blurred and widespread influence has increased. Cyber defense is growing in importance. We're gonna have to invest in this, as we've done. Mr President! Finland is not threatened by a military crisis right now, but we must take care of our defence and national unity. This requires unanimity. Everyone can be a defender of the country in their own work, both in the Defence Forces and in the voluntary defence work, but it is also patriotic love, love for the homeland, hard work, reliable talk about society and a combination of coals. I consider the Intti familiar campaign to be a really good start. Finland is considered to be a country that is worthy of the defence of all those who live here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u213	Like this. — and Mr Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u214	Honorable Mr. Speaker! Finland is the best country and always worth defending. Our generations must make sure that everyone in Finland in the future can feel that they belong and that everyone's contribution is important and necessary. We owe it to past generations to take care of Finland as best we can, which they have saved for us in difficult times. President! On the whole, the government is investing significant amounts in defence, as has become apparent during this debate. I thank the government, I also thank the committee and, of course, the firm Minister of Defence for Kaikko for this. It is essential that the Government strengthens Finland's defence properly. In addition to strategic procurement, the funding of the administrative sector will ensure the maintenance and development of defence and other components of the defence system. The Finnish defence and aviation industry enables the maintenance of military security of supply and the capability of defence. Industrial cooperation should therefore continue to be included in the procurement of materials whenever possible. In addition, it is important to promote export opportunities and networking between companies in order to ensure the profitable functioning of domestic industry. Mr President! Without its strong spine, the Defence Forces would not be a functioning entity. The Finnish reserve is well-trained and the maintenance of competence must be maintained. The training and refresher exercises of the reserve play an important role in maintaining and developing the fieldability of the reserve. The aim is to improve the training of the Reserve by developing various forms of training, refresher exercises, voluntary exercises, voluntary national defence training and self-employment skills, such as shooting training opportunities. The number of refresher exercises was to be gradually increased between 20 and 23 years. An additional budget of EUR 1.5 million has been allocated to this purpose in the Government Programme. Between 20 and 21, the financing of refresher exercises has been increased by a total of EUR 1.3 million. Next year, 22, the target level of 19300 of the reserve staff to be trained will be maintained at the increased level of 21, and this can be welcomed. I hope this pandemic doesn't interfere with this refresher exercise. Voluntary defence organisations play an important role in the overall security of society. The active role of national defence organisations in maintaining the fieldability and defence will of the reserve is relevant from the perspective of national defence performance, with EUR 4.9 million being proposed for this item. A large part of this appropriation, EUR 4.6 million, will be allocated to the National Defence Training Association. Voluntary national defence organizations are doing important work for our defence. President! Finally, the committee's report must be welcomed. The committee has also welcomed the problems relating to the rehabilitation and support needs of veterans in military crisis management and has now been recognised and the government has supplemented the explanatory statement so that the appropriation may also be used for this activity. EUR 120000 will be available for the purpose next year. The Committee on Defence also expressed its opinion on this, and this report by the Committee on Finance takes account of it. This is something to be welcomed, but these support measures should continue to fall within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and it is good to have a debate on this in the future that they will also go there. There have been good, praiseworthy speeches here. A very important withdrawal from Congressman Kivisaari to pay attention to the condition of the garrison and the Defence Forces can be the solution. In the future, the Defence Forces could be the largest fitness school in the country and look for solutions to ensure that our men and women also receive appropriate training for fitness needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u216	Mr President! A solemn and patriotic feeling comes right when you listen to these speeches. I believe that the Minister I appreciate will feel the same after these speeches. I hope we can maintain the style. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to this question about Kauhava airport. It is good that the political debate around the use of this field will continue and then we will think about what could possibly be done from the point of view of the Ministry of Defence. But then a few more comments coming from this fighter acquisition. In other words, Finland is engaged in security and defence cooperation and partnership in a number of ways: with the Nordic countries, with the European Union and also within the framework of NATO cooperation, and also bilaterally with the United States and Britain. And now that we have made progress on procurement, many people are wondering what the significance of these procurements could then be in the various security partnerships in the future. In my opinion, this package will allow for example to deepen the bilateral partnership with the United States, and it would be interesting to hear the defence minister's assessment of what these acquisitions will mean in terms of security cooperation in the year 22 and perhaps a little further. The second point, Mr President, is that I am going to go a little over the various aspects of the sector: this next point, however, is more related to that direction of the State Department, but I would like to stress one thing. After all, different defence materials have been exported from Finland, trades have been made with different countries. And yes, I would suggest that if different technology and performance are sold from Finland through official agreements and partnerships, Finland must also be a reliable partner throughout the entire period of time that these materials are in use. In other words, we are in a situation where we have export licences for a few of the target countries in a challenging situation, and this is not good for Finland's international reputation. I would therefore hope that the Minister of Defence, who works in many sectors with merit, could tend a little to this issue, because this is also an awkward matter for Finland. Mr President! Then let's move on to these sectors. This is where good speeches were made about the will to defend the country. Its core is a trained reserve and voluntary defence work, which form the will to defend the country by their actions. In this respect, military training is, of course, the basis from which further efforts are being made, and I hope that attention will be paid to the condition of the garrison. I think it's to the scratch, isn't it? But one thing that came up here, as in part, is still a little earlier. For example, in basic education, in which I myself have worked as a teacher for over a decade, information on the Finnish Defence Forces is only given in the ninth grade in connection with social information. Perhaps it should be considered that in certain ways about such patriotic love and related positive things — this is not directly in the Ministry of Defence sector — in basic education and teaching plans, such things, now could give some such surface information even in earlier years. It does not mean that there will be a reserve of second graders, but it would still tell us how Finland prepares for different situations. It wouldn't be such a bad idea to develop this kind of thing forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u217	Thank you. — And Mr Kiljunen, Mr Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u218	Mr President! I do consider you to be firm, upright and upright, just like the Minister. We have a consensus here, and I appreciate the fact that the key politicians are equipped with those very epithets. Yes, we have a wider consensus to put it more seriously. Representative Könttä used the term that we have one team in the Defence Committee, the ‘Finland team’, and I want to be full of his word. Yes, this patriotic defence and patriotic love, if you go deep for these terms, is something that we all share, and that is what we want to share here as well. Of course, it is clear that defence with its arms acquisitions, strategic arms acquisitions, serves Finland's foreign and security policy. That is quite clear, and it is precisely based on a cooperative approach to security. We are bridge builders, we are a stabilising factor in the world, we are not threatening anyone, and, as has been recorded in the Government Programme, Finland's territory cannot be used against anyone. This is the big common line that we all work for on the Finnish team. Mr President! As far as the HX project is concerned, I have had, I would not like to say the Devil’s Advance role, but I have wanted to ask questions to understand, and that is why I also appreciate the fact that I have just asked the question as to whether this fullness of the Hornet fleet would have been achieved by 50 or 54 F-35 fighters, and the Minister here quite rightly replied that, yes — he did not answer directly that it is true, but he answered it in this way that 64 is such a reasonable figure here that Finland’s surface area is large, and in this respect strategically, when it is assessed, this is the more correct figure here. However, you did not deny it — and it cannot even be denied — because the estimates made by the Ministry of Defence specifically lead to that conclusion, which I did. It can only be said that, fortunately, the Paris peace agreement then, in the late '40s, was able to see the exact figure for this type of machinery in Finland. That is the maximum that the Paris peace treaty in Finland would allow such fighters to be. So I have to thank you for that. Mr President! The second and perhaps bigger question is that we are dealing with the defence budget right now, and what the Minister of Defence has just said and what was also important when the decision was taken in this HX project was that in the future these operating and maintenance costs will amount to 10% of defence expenditure; now, in real terms, at today's prices, about EUR 254 million. This is a very important entry, and I am afraid and I am almost certain that every year, the next few years, the decades, will come back to this point, to this entry, which is very clearly behind this decision. As far as Hornet equipment is concerned, the original operating and maintenance price was exceeded, and now there is the risk — even in the Netherlands, we know that the operating and maintenance costs of this F-35 fighter are three times higher than those estimated in Finland. In Norway, they're bigger. We have heard from Australia, including the United States, that they are expensive. And In Switzerland, a report has been launched by Parliament's Audit Committee — there will also be a referendum on this F-35 decision, which has been taken in Switzerland, smaller equipment than was acquired in Finland, but a decision has been taken — the Audit Committee will find out that not only the F-35 fighter won the invitation to tender there, which had the same candidates as here in Finland, with false information. And this is, of course, a serious challenge for this whole project that this is now being investigated — in Switzerland. That is why I ask the Minister my grave concern or my question whether we have the slightest risk — whether there is even the slightest risk — that this is, in a way, a legal decision, which in Parliament is that up to 10% of defence expenditure can be spent on the operating and maintenance costs of these F-35 fighters, that it does not just repeat — that it does not just repeat — this situation previously experienced in Finland with regard to the Hornets, that they were well exceeded in terms of maintenance and operation costs. If that's the case, then I'll stay and ask. A follow-up question, Minister: Who will then be responsible for this? What is the rapporteur's responsibility here? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u219	And Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u220	Thank you, Mr President. We have a long-term foreign and security policy and defence policy in Finland. Just as has already been said here, when thought was given, it was believed and hoped that the world might be heading towards greater interdependence and calmer times, so many countries, our western neighbour Sweden, among other things, gave up military duty and felt that we could invest, for example, in international crisis management, which is also important. Well, fortunately this was not the case in Finland. Of course, we invested in international crisis management, but at the same time we maintained our own defence, our military system, and we also bought new technology, invested and invested in it, invested in the Defence Forces' performance, and this was a sensible line. Now that we see more crises in Europe and in the world, as well as more military tensions, we can say in hindsight that Finland was right. Russia, in particular, has increased its power policy. The situation in Ukraine is very alarming. There have been wars for years, and now the threat is increasing. Belarus' aggression towards Poland and Lithuania is the most real thing, and yes, there are a lot of variables in this area. For example, Russia's lobby speeches and statements that NATO should no longer go east are such that Finland must continue to take care of its own defence and self-determination — that Finland decides for itself how it makes its own national decisions. This is important, and I am pleased with the line taken by President Niinistö and also the clear statement that NATO membership, for example, is an issue between the applicant country and NATO. It is then up to us decision-makers to form that position, and I am pleased with the Finnish policy we have pursued by President Niinistö and the government. It is true that the national sovereign state has control over these matters. In view of this background, I am pleased that, for example, the Fleet Project and now the latest fighter project have been implemented with determination. And when I was asked in my own country, Central Finland, during the fighter project, whether it should not be the one who brings the most work to Central Finland, I said no. We have to choose the best fighter for Finland, and that is what has been done, and for that I thank Minister of Defence Kaikkonen. Well, of course I am pleased that the acquisition also brings work and safety to Central Finland, both to Jämsän Hall and, for example, to Tikkakoski. Of course, new things that we need to pay even more attention to are in the future and even now cyber defense — there too, there are aggressions, and there can be no blue-eyedness here, Finland must be very awake here — and hybrid influence not only on the cyber side but also on the ground trades and the activities of various bulvans. The Defence Forces and the new laws adopted in the previous period provide a good basis for monitoring the security of the country, but we must remain very vigilant in the future. And yes, this cyber is a new line of defence that must be invested in — or, if it is not the arm of defence, the comparable branch — that it is not at all able to give way to or miss out on technical progress. There, too, different countries are active and often operate through different organisations and individual actors, which makes it even more difficult to detect the influence of the state, even if it is Russia or China or some other country. Well, at the end of the day, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to a few good reforms — I feel that there have been nothing but good reforms here in the administrative field of the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence. For example, the Law The defense properties now seem to be working and going in the direction they wanted. Finally, I would also like to highlight the good parliamentary work carried out by the Military Committee, which established guidelines to ensure that the military service system, to which the Finnish defence is very much based, is also viable in the 2030s and beyond. I think those guidelines and steps were excellent. On this line, as Minister Kaikkonen has handled his own Ministry of Defence administration — that is to say, he has taken care of what he is currently doing, and he has also been looking forward to 5, 10, 15 and even 30 years and making the necessary decisions and investments — the Finns can still sleep in peace in general in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u222	Mr President! Mr Könttä gave a good speech, as he usually does. The situation in Europe is currently extremely dangerous and critical. Russia is threatening, in practice, to start a war in Europe, a war against Ukraine. Of course, talking about the start of the war is somewhat misleading, as Russia attacked Ukraine as early as 2014, when it illegally occupied the Crimean Peninsula and joined it and began an ongoing war in Eastern Ukraine. There is grotesque propaganda that Russia is currently presenting to its own people and to the whole world. Russia is supposed to be facing hostile military action at any moment. The peace and security of Russia are supposed to be threatened. Why does the Russian leadership do this? We do not know the motives, the real motives, the propagandistic motives of the Russian President Putin and his people. I personally think that it is above all a question of strengthening the Russian leadership's own power within Russia. When citizens' standards of living do not rise much when civil liberties are reduced, if possible, even more when so-called internal enemies are poisoned to death, then in such a situation the Russian leadership apparently calculates that the incitement of fanatical nationalism and the presentation of things in such a way that Russia is at any moment facing an external threat increases its support and strengthens its power in its own country. Unfortunately, history shows that such action, from a management point of view, is often successful, at least in the short term. All you have to do is look at what happened to the support of the Russian leadership in 2014 when Russia illegally and against all the key international agreements attacked the Crimean Peninsula and attached it to itself. Sometimes, in my youth and in a completely different context, even in Finland, it was said that Fascism sells well. I do not know the historical origin of this expression, but it has come to mind when I look at the operation of the Russian leadership. Of course, in the operation of the Russian leadership, it is also due to the restoration of the times of Russia's greatness. I am talking about geographical size. How should we view this situation in Finland? Despite all that I have said, I believe that Finland must strive to maintain good political and commercial relations with Russia, not to mention good relations at citizens' level, where there is much development and which hopefully can also be developed in the middle of everything. How should the West view this situation? At least the West should not accept Putin's demands. The West should not go beyond the heads of Ukraine and other neighbouring countries of Russia to conclude the agreements that Putin wanted. In Munich in 1938 the Western powers gave in to Hitler, and there was nothing good about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u223	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u224	Mr President! For Finland, defence policy is an extremely important policy area. We ourselves must ensure that the country can be defended under all circumstances, under all circumstances. Of course, the Finnish defence system is based on regional defence, general military duty and a well-trained reserve with good equipment at its disposal. The army and the army all have good equipment at their disposal, as is evidenced by the recent fighter procurement and then by the many other procurements that have been made during this parliamentary term, and by the procurements that are currently being prepared. Of all these, I would like to thank Mr Kaikko for his excellent work and, of course, the Committee on Defence, which has produced a good report, and the chairman of the Committee on Defence. There is one important golden thread in this country that must be strictly followed by everyone — and that golden thread should be cherished — that is, the will to defend the country. If the people have the will to defend this country, it is such a strong foundation for building almost anything that we want to keep Finland a sovereign state and so that, under all circumstances, they will be able to control both their own land borders, their airspace and their maritime borders with credible professionalism and good knowledge, and all of this will happen under conditions in which Finland's foreign policy has given good promise that we will get along with all our neighbours and that we will be trusted. As we know from our own lives and from any other activity, from working life and from elsewhere, it is a very difficult task to gain trust, but it is very easy to lose. Finnish regional defence — I have said on many occasions that this is the only ministry in Finland that carries out its activities around the clock during all the seasons of the year, a cause that is the best regional policy: the whole country is defended under all circumstances at every hectare. I've never seen anything like this in a department, but thank you, Secretary of Defense Kaikonen. He has cherished this core of central regional policy in the Ministry of Defence very well. The Ministry of Defence is holding the side of this country everywhere, with every acre in the east, west, south, and north. It is such a thing that the importance of which, if you don't stop and think about it, may be forgotten, but when you think for a while, you realize that it is the deepest core of this whole system. We must ensure that technical expertise in the various defence branches and in the competence of the equipment of the staff and also the reserve is the best possible. This acquisition of Lockheed Martin shows that we have excellent technical know-how, maintenance can be done, the construction of machinery can be done and sold to other states abroad from Finland, which shows that technology is known in Finland. Patria's role in this task is extremely important, and that, of course, also brings work to many subcontractors, I believe. In my question to the Minister, when I just called for this acquisition of Finnish transport equipment for the Finnish army and why not for the Border Guard, I would like to see more attention paid to it, because it is worth remembering the moment when the crisis will come. It'll come one day anyway. Then the supply of spare parts from abroad will probably not play very well, and it may be that some customer relationships will be stuck for a long time due to the crisis. This is why it is increasingly important to have Finnish equipment manufacturing and spare parts manufacturing in this country. By the way, this lack of equipment and spare parts manufacturing in this country is now visible in a great many industries. Many large equipment stores have not been made when we do not get spare parts or some parts of the equipment from abroad. We should be better placed to do something about this in our own country. Cooperation with Sweden is still extremely important to us, even though it went unsolicited for the Swedes. Cooperation with Sweden is extremely important. It opens up many opportunities for us and must be maintained. Finally, Mr President, on general security of supply. From the point of view of Finland's defence, it is extremely important that we also manage energy supply ourselves as much as possible. Now we have put ourselves in a situation where we are entirely dependent on Russian energy. I am horrified by this situation, in which domestic peat was stopped on absolutely absurd grounds, on grounds that are not at all true, and then it is being replaced by Russian natural gas or some other application from Russia. Mr President! I hope that attention will be paid to this issue in Parliament, because the country that cannot take care of its own energies is completely exported by other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u225	Yes. — and Mr Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u226	Mr President! In my own speech, I shall now comment on the budget under discussion. It is excellent that the funds of the Ministry of Defence ensure that we maintain credible national defence and that it is developed in this increasingly predictable environment. At the heart of the defence is credible military capabilities, general military service, strong will to defend the country and competent personnel and reserves, and international cooperation. The changing means of influence must be able to respond to them now and in the future in a broad and constantly new way. Cyber and space security, in particular, are a set of things that inevitably emerge as a result of technological development. They will require constant attention and resources in the coming years. Defence policy is now characterised by long-termism, and its continuity must be ensured regardless of the composition of the government. Defense if there's anything we can do together. It is excellent that, in the course of this budget debate, we have also adopted the defence statement in the autumn and, most recently, we have finished the HX project, so much of which we can say that both the procurement process and the end result are excellent and should be welcomed. Of course, as a Middle-Finnish, I also enjoy future defence industry cooperation. But there is actually one thing, and I personally hope that we will pay particular attention to it, as the Committee on Defence has also done for its part. In addition to this material capability, the key issue for the Defence Forces’ performance is sufficient, competent and well-being personnel. The new capabilities to be made more effective as a result of the change in the military defence environment and the new preparedness arrangements will be implemented with the same staff used to train garrison and reserve personnel. The military staffing, 8000 professional soldiers and 4,000 civilians, is not fully in line with the expanding field of mission of the Defence Forces. At the same time, well-being at work must also be ensured. These are the issues on which we should also invest strongly in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u227	Like this. — And now, briefly, Mr Kaikkonen, Minister of Defence, and then we will change section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u228	Mr President! Here came less questions, more well weighed and reasoned thoughts. [Department : More cheers! ] Mr Sankelo asked about the importance of HX for cooperation with the United States. After all, the United States is already one of our most important defence partners. It is also mentioned in those reports. It certainly means, in practice, that cooperation will be strong in the future, that it will certainly seal it up. What you said about these export permits, I think about them quite the same way as you do, but it is not alone in the hands of my own ministry. Mr Kiljunen further considered the F-35 operating costs here and these comparisons with different countries. It has also been clarified in this project. It is very much based on the fact that there are different methods of calculation: that is, what costs are calculated. It is clear that, in a country, even though the military staff are fully employed and we have a military model, it is already a difference. But there are also several other reasons for explaining these differences in the way the numbers look in the end. But when the calculation methods are harmonised, they seem to be better off on the same hectare.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u229	Like this. Thank you, Minister Kaikkonen. The debate and the debate will be suspended and will be resumed at a later date in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u230	The general debate on section 27, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue. — The debate continues. Congressman Kalli is gone. — Mr Yrttiaho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u231	Thank you, Mr President. In this previous debate, we reviewed this last Friday decision of the government to acquire 64 F-35A fighters from the United States to replace the Finnish Hornets. During the previous debate, Mr Vähämäki, among others, made a distinguished speech in relation to these indices and other price risks that this trade naturally entails. For example, the effects of the material shortage that is now known in the global economy may well come at the prices of the manufacture of these defence equipment, and in the course of this ten-year procurement period, the index under the contract will then be the one to adjust this price, i.e. the price will increase from the 10 billion that has now been announced. I then asked Minister Kaikkonen about this, in fact, a much larger scale problem, which relates to maintenance and operating costs. In the United States, the National Audit Office (GAO) has drawn attention to these major problems of F-35 in its repeated reports, and then the VTV here in Finland, just on the day of the decision of the government last Friday, came out with its own views and findings that the assessment of the maintenance and operating costs of these F-35 and this HX project is inappropriate. Indeed, I asked Minister Kaikkonen how the government will be able to ensure that this promised 254 million annual operating costs can indeed be maintained when, in all the European countries which have acquired this F-35, these costs are double, tripled in relation to what is now being calculated by the Ministry of Defence and the government. Minister Kaikkonen called for the Defence Forces to have an interest in remaining in that 254 because there is no additional money coming. However, when it is obvious that this is not enough — in the light of international comparisons, this is obvious — the question arises as to what to do when money is not enough. Will these expensive planes then fail to fly, as has actually happened with the Hornets?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u232	Representative Up the hill, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u233	Mr President! We are dealing with Section 27 of the 22 draft budget, which is the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence. The Finnish defence environment remains tense and difficult to predict. The increasing competition for power and the diversification of the artificial ranges make it difficult to anticipate in the neighbouring areas of our country. The situation in Ukraine has become tense. Military activity in the Baltic Sea region is active. NATO, the United States and many of Finland’s partner countries have increased their military presence and training activities there and elsewhere in Europe. The military strategic importance of the Arctic region has increased. Russia has the ability to launch operations quickly and unexpectedly. In a changing security environment, Finland's defence must be able to meet all the challenges that arise, regardless of their quality. Mr President! Fortunately, there is a relatively broad consensus among parliamentary parties on the maintenance of defence capabilities in Finland. An example of this is the successful choice of F-35 fighters by the Defence Forces and unanimity in the Government's defence report. The security of the country is a matter for all of us. Mr President! As we all know, our country's defence is based on the military system. From the point of view of military defence, well-off conscripts are worth a fortune. Unfortunately, this objective is hampered, among other things, by the backward level of the daily allowance received by the military. The basic Finnish view is that this daily allowance should be slightly increased. A soldier has earned his monk. After their service, the garrison will be transferred to the reserve. The backbone of Finland’s defence is a skilled reserve. Unfortunately, the number of refresher exercises that are important from the beginning of the 21st century has fallen from 30000 to 35,000 military exercises a year. The True Finns have here presented a posture movement and an increase in refresher exercises to 25,000 reservists a year. What I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Defence and the Committee and this whole package is that Kauhava Airport has been taken into account again this year and that it will be able to organise an air exercise for a couple of weeks. To this end, I would also like to express my concern about the financing of peer support for peacekeepers and crisis management veterans, the so-called STEA grants. During today’s government, this aid was reduced from 183 000 to 65,000, and has now been patched up slightly this year by the Defence Forces. I find this rather offensive that such an important activity is lacking this STEA funding. I therefore hope that the Minister of Defence will also try to make an effort to bring this matter and the amount of compensation to a reasonable level, wherever it has been. Even then this kind of thing — a little humor already goes — that these vegetarian food things and these are such things that I think should be forgotten and given enough money that men get decent food and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u234	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u235	Yes, Mr President. I must thank Mr Mäenpää for his excellent speech. The security of the country is a matter for all of us. The whole Parliament is almost unanimous that this country should be defended in such a way that we have material procurements and we have refresher exercises and everything in order, and that will be reflected in this defence budget. Thank you, of course, to Mr Kaikkonen, but I must thank the entire Committee on Defence for having obtained a unanimous defence report, but above all for looking forward to this area of defence. Well, on the report by the Committee on Finance: The committee, too, has stressed from this domestic defence and aviation industry, i.e. from the perspective of security of supply, that it makes it possible to maintain military security of supply and the capacity of defence to function. Industrial cooperation must therefore continue to be required for the procurement of materials wherever possible. In addition, in order to ensure the profitability of domestic industry, it is important to promote export opportunities and networking between companies. And this is also reflected in this HX acquisition: the front hulls of these future multi-functional fighters will be made in Finland, 4500 direct jobs and 1500 jobs to the side. Yes, President, material supplies, refresher exercises, everything is at the right level, and we have to raise it, like that representative. Mäenpää also pointed out the funding related to the rehabilitation and support needs of this military crisis management veterans. These problems have now been recognised, and the government has indeed supplemented this point by allowing the appropriation to be used now for this activity, and the amount available now amounts to EUR 120000 for next year. However, as the opinion of the Committee on Defence has also been expressed in this report of the Committee on Finance, such support activities fall within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. And now, like the committee itself, I also call on the government to continue its discussions in order to ensure permanent funding, so that it is also there in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u236	Thank you. — Representative Kopra absent. — — — — Congressman Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u237	Mr President! With a little of the Centre's ranks here all evening, it has been highly praised that it is now being done, that the police are being invested in and that the defence is being invested in, that the crisis veterans are being invested in: the representatives of the Centre, you have decided first to cut them all. — Representative, excuse me, one representative is present. — First, you and the left-wing government have decided to operate on the police, on crisis veterans, on the rehabilitation of peacekeepers, and only when they are brought up by the opposition will you return them so that, now, ladies and gentlemen, do not be so boastful then with those measures. First you cut, then you return. Finally, Mr Kettunen, you have taken a stand on this: under your left-wing government, export licences have been tightened so that in the course of the year exports of Finnish industry — guess how much — were lost because you, Mr Kettunen, have tightened export licences with the left-wing government. And it is precisely because it has now been denied in many countries to which it has been exported, and the answer has been that it has been denied because the human rights situation has not improved. In other words, the human rights situation has not deteriorated; it has not improved. That, too, is a sufficient reason for you, Mr Centre and the left-wing government, to prevent Patria, many other Finnish companies from doing this business. I want to bring up the staff. We need to secure sufficient personnel in the Defence Forces, and contract soldiers are an important part of this. I have already mentioned the question of kriha veterans and peacekeepers. Thank you for that, but first the Minister of the Left decided to cut the Peacekeeper rehabilitation money. And then this big question about the material, about which I would like to say and thank this government for last week's decision to acquire 64 F-35 fighters. Last week, then, our country made the biggest trade in the 21st century and one of the biggest trades in its history. The next fighter for the Air Force will be Lockheed Martin's F-35 Lightning Two, and this machine is therefore an American, one-seater, one-engined multi-functional fighter of the weather, developed and intended for both air domination and bombing operations. This is also where the machines come with their equipment. The HX project has gone a long way, with the aim of replacing the former Hornet fighters of the obsolete and decommissioned air force. The project actually lasted 7 years for 2 months for 2 days, and I myself have been allowed to be a member of the Committee on Defence for this whole interesting trip. All I can do is give thanks to the project leader, Mr Puranen, and his troops and all those who have worked on this project. Before us, Lockheed Martin has sold F-35s to ten different states and ten different users in total. In Europe the machine has now been chosen by Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Norway and Denmark from the Nordic countries. F35’s development program covers, for example, updates up to the 2070s, and Lockheed Martin’s goal is to manufacture around 3,000 of these machines to accompany the current 730 aircraft. In addition to the selected F-35, the competition also included another US machine, Boeing Super Hornet, Rafale, Eurofighter Typhoon, and Saab Gripen E, Sweden. According to the estimates of the participants in the competition, the F-35 rose to its own category in an open, discussion and fair selection process carried out by about 100 of our experts. The machine dominates all four phases: security of supply, life cycle costs, industrial cooperation and performance. F-35 passed all four points and was the best for both a short-term and longer-term comparison. Former Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja stated: ‘On the basis of its public and non-public information,whatever performance and other criteria I know from all candidates’. From this point on, he did not like my place, but would have continued:‘there was no [President : Thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u238	Congressman Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u239	Mr President! Mr Kettunen must be told that I am not quite so sure that the whole parliament is behind the defence. Sometimes when you listen to these things, you'll find no one in the center, but in the other crowds, you'll be ready to surrender to any possibility of coming here. It is a good thing that good decisions should be taken, but, unfortunately, there are often problems that Mr Heinonen has just brought about, that we are losing business. One of the things that is here is that it is not even possible to leave the so-called narrow point of view in order to sell truck axles, for example, as a result of a military embargo, when they happen to be going into a Sisu armored car. Yes, this point is going to go completely overboard, and it should definitely be taken care that, at a time like this, the Finnish Parliament would not take such idiotic decisions, and certainly this government would not take such decisions, because it has nothing to do with the fundamental issue of taking care of some human rights or possibly not having civil war or any similar or other attack on another country. Truck axles cannot be sold — incomprehensible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u240	Thank you. — Representative Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u241	Thank you, Mr President. According to the Government Programme, Finland maintains and develops its capacity to participate in international civilian and military crisis management tasks together with other international actors. The objective is to halt the downward trend in participation in military crisis management and to strengthen participation while keeping the level of participation and appropriation in 2020 as a minimum starting point. Changes in international operating environments and conflicts are reflected in the need for crisis management and policies, which poses new security challenges for operations and persons in them, among other things. While training aims to provide basic capacity to work in crisis management tasks in an international environment and often in challenging circumstances regardless of the professional background of the personnel, for example, operating in a high security risk environment may cause the need for mental and physical aftercare when returning to the country of origin. Mr President! The parliamentary committee on crisis management has taken into account the need for after-care and its funding in its recommendations for the development of crisis management in Finland: ‘Also, long-term support from crisis managementoperations and the Replaced by the State Treasury, those serving crisis management tasks will have the opportunity to receive mental support and the services of the psychiatric consulting department of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa for one year after the end of their service. Problems may arise, especially in the event of trauma - related stress disorder, even years after the end of the ministry. The identification of PTSD symptoms as early as possible and the provision of assistance are important for both those returning from crisis management tasks and those close to them. In practice, the Finnish Peacekeeper Federation is the only one offering the necessary mental support to its members, both military and civilian, who have served in crisis management tasks, in cooperation with the State Treasury and HUS. The activities are based on the annual discretionary financing of the Social and Health Care Centre (STEA). Account should be taken of the adequate level of funding and the predictability of the funding base.” It has therefore been incomprehensible that, while the Government Programme seeks to strengthen participation in crisis management, there has been a significant reduction in the funding of after-care, even though the parliamentary committee expressly mentions that it should be safeguarded. Mr President! The Government must therefore ensure predictable and adequate funding for long-term support and associated rehabilitation for returnees and those in need of crisis management operations by adding adequate funding to the budget in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u242	Thank you. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u243	Mr President! A long prepared multi-purpose fighter decision was taken last week and Finland has chosen the F-35 multi-operator solution for the coming decades. I believe that the best fighter was chosen, and this solution will help to strengthen our defence capabilities in the best way possible for decades to come. As a member of the Committee on Defence, I was allowed to participate in the evaluation process insofar as Parliament was involved. We have been able to study the technology, background systems and principles of operation and use in a broad and in-depth way. The Finnish procurement preparation process was very careful, objective and effective. Finland's way of preparing procurement is also unique worldwide, and I know that other countries planning such procurement may be very interested in learning how the matter was assessed and prepared in Finland. On the basis of this, you can say that the chosen multi-operator solution is the most efficient and optimal solution for Finland’s needs. It can also be said that no other outcome could have been achieved on the basis of the information produced by the preparatory process. In addition to traditional air surveillance, air warfare and impact capability, the chosen system has excellent performance in networked warfare, intelligence and all types of support. Even though the purchase is expensive, it is therefore justified and necessary. The security situation is volatile in modern times, and Finland must therefore also invest in defending the integrity of the country and maintaining security. This decision is solid evidence that Finland is able to make significant decisions affecting our safety in cooperation. This decision also demonstrates that Finland takes its safety seriously and wants to ensure its own country’s safety. In many ways, the acquisition sealed Finland's international position and integrates us more closely into the Western security policy environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u244	Thank you. — Representative Heinonen is absent. — — — — Congressman Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u245	Mr President! That is where Mr Heinonen and Mr Laakso pointed out this defence export industry and how it took the 700 million into account, in line with what Mr Heinonen said. We need to look more closely at this, but, as I pointed out in my own speech, these export opportunities and networking of companies must be promoted, and we should not be discouraged if this is what has come into the coat, but we must look for new opportunities. And yes, I agree with Mr Laakson and Mr Heinonen here that these issues should be looked at in such a way that, as far as possible and in a diverse manner, we are able to take the expertise and top products for the defence industry to the world as well. But when Mr Heinonen, a little bit, well, you did not slander, but you pointed out how this government has not succeeded, it must be pointed out in this area of military defence that this red mud government has invested in our garrison, our defence forces' main asset, namely our highly skilled staff historically. Even in the fourth amending budget this year, EUR 2.2 million was already added to the salary of contract soldiers, with this increase of 85 person-years. The number of contract soldiers can now be kept at the necessary level, in the 350 person-years, including next year, and this is an important issue. Well, how about we go back to rehearsing, for our reservists? This is to be gradually increased. A total of EUR 1.5 million of additional appropriations will be allocated from 2020 to 2023 under the Government Programme. Between 20 and 21, the funding of exercises has been increased by EUR 1.3 million, with a target level of 19300 of reserve personnel trained in 22 years. So let us keep these levels at the appropriate level. Of course, this corona pandemic may affect and create challenges for the reservist refresher exercise, but I asked the Minister for Defence, and he said that new means have been developed during the current pandemic but that there will certainly also be ways to ensure that we can continue to train our reservists in the future. I would like to remind you that this red mud government has made a historic investment in military defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u246	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u247	Mr President! That's a representative. As you listened to the fox, you could not help but think of the unknown soldier, how the calories were calculated there and it was found that you could no longer be hungry. Now that few supporters of the center would listen to Mr. Fox, they would surely think that when all this is done, where all the other supporters have disappeared. When you listen to Mr Fox, this joint government between the centre and the left is so fantastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u250	Thank you. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u251	Mr President! In my previous speech, I said that Finland can make decisions that affect safety in cooperation and consensus. This has not always been the case, but fortunately it is today. The representative Kettunen here well listed the funding lines made by the government in the field of defence, and that is a good thing. For example, it is a very good thing for the Defence Forces to return the appropriations for contract soldiers, since I myself made a budget initiative of EUR 2 million and you made another 200 tonnes better, that is, 2.2 million for contract soldiers. That, of course, is something that I support, and we support, without reservation. It has not always been the case that Finland has unanimously decided and invested in these defence issues. Without going very far in history, there has been deep disagreement between the parties and the current government parties on this matter. Fortunately, today we are able to read this security policy situation in world politics. I understand that the left-wing parties in particular may have a debate there on this issue and on what is the right level of defence effort, but at least how this is seen outwards and how this is done shows that the left-wing parties in the government are taking the security of the citizens seriously and want to make it possible to defend the country. In this respect, the opposition can be satisfied with the government's action in the field of defence policy. I have often said out loud elsewhere, and let me say in the presence of this congregation that Minister of Defence, Mr Kaikkonen, has done a very good job, and I hope that he will continue to do so until the end of his duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u252	Presentation of Section 31 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. At this stage, a maximum of 1 hour and 30 minutes shall be reserved for the general discussion in the section. — The President of the Section responsible for the Committee on Finance, Mr Jokinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u253	Mr President! The budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications amounts to around EUR 3.5 billion, which is almost the same amount as this year. In July, the Parliament adopted a report on the national transport system plan, which will be translated into an investment programme for the state transport network for the years 22-29. The committee considers it important that the funding of the plan be ensured and points out that, when it adopted the report, Parliament required two things from the Government: 1) Parliament required the Government to commit itself to the guidelines of the national transport system plan. 2) The Parliament required the Government to finance the implementation of the plan by taking them into account in the budgetary framework plans and draft budgets. Mr President! Cybersecurity is an increasingly important part of the security and functioning of society. As society becomes digital, cyber threats have become more widespread and can also target activities that are critical to society. The committee pays particular attention to the financing of the Cybersecurity Centre in the context of the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. As the challenges of the cyber environment develop, a number of new tasks have been introduced to the Cyber Security Centre, which have not been adequately resourced. Finland has a good cybersecurity strategy and a cybersecurity development programme in accordance with the Government Resolution. All that's missing is money. That is why the committee is making a statement to safeguard the financing of cybersecurity. Mr President! The budget for basic infrastructure management is EUR 1.37 billion, including an increase of EUR 300 million as proposed by the parliamentary working group. Despite this increase, the correction debt amounts to EUR 2.85 billion. The debt to repair continues to grow and is expected to decline only in 26. The committee welcomes the progress of the Digirata project by EUR 8 million next year. The Digirata project replaces an ageing train access control system, and digitalisation contributes to the efficiency and safety of the rail transport system as a whole. The Committee considers it important that the railway network should be developed as a whole and that the maintenance and development of the existing infrastructure should not be jeopardised by the major projects under way. In particular, the availability of the main line must be secured and EU funding for the financing of nuclear networks must also be used for railway projects. Mr President! The draft budget is exceptional because it does not include any new projects for the development of the network. At the same time, it must be noted that 35 projects have been completed in the past and the Finnish Transport Agency is preparing the Transport 12 action programme. In view of the development needs of the transport network, the Committee considers it important to re-evaluate the Government spending limits line in which a savings obligation of EUR 110 million was imposed on development projects from 23 onwards. This, in the view of the Committee, would undermine the credibility of the Transport 12 plan and make it more difficult to implement it. Mr President! In its report, the committee highlights the need to renovate the lower road network. According to the survey, about 90% of the repair debt of one and a half billion people on the roads is directed towards a large low-traffic road network, which is of fundamental importance both for passenger transport and for the transport of business, especially in the forest industry. For this reason, the committee adds EUR 18240000 to the basic infrastructure management item and allocates it to smaller road safety projects in various parts of the country, business conditions and also to projects promoting walking and cycling. The committee considers that the financing of road safety work is still insufficient and adds EUR 500000. The committee welcomes the legislative project in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health aimed at ensuring long-term funding for road safety work. Mr President! The committee shall submit to Parliament for approval the following statement: ‘The Commission requires that the CSC’s financial basis be strengthened,so that it is appropriate to carry out its tasks, to implement the cybersecurity development programme and to provide adequate Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Minister of Transport Harakka, the staff of the Ministry of Transport and other stakeholders for their good cooperation with the Transport Section this year. I wish for safe transport and a peaceful Christmas season.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u254	Yes, thank you. — And Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u255	Thank you to the President-in-Office. I would be happy to join you immediately and immediately at the forefront of these wishes. Mr President! The Government's proposal for the administrative budget of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for the year 22 is EUR 3.56 billion, which is indeed equivalent to the level of the current year. Next year, the Government will continue its efforts to improve the transport network, manage the road repair debt and public passenger transport. In addition, the draft budget includes a contribution to the implementation of the road map for fossil-free transport. In the years 22 to 23, the halves of the fairway charge will continue to support the functioning of maritime transport and Finland’s competitiveness and to remedy the losses caused by the pandemic. Mr President! The objectives and guidelines of the national transport system plan, Transport 12, will be taken into account. This joint parliamentary will is reflected in the allocation of funding. We pay attention to day-to-day traffic and the condition of a vibrant and significant network for business, without forgetting the low-traffic network. We also promote road safety and digitalisation. And all actions support our climate objectives. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes an increase of more than EUR 18 million in basic infrastructure management for projects promoting road safety, business conditions and walking and cycling across the country. I thank the committee for this valuable addition. Indeed, it should be pointed out that the objectives and implementation of the parliamentaryly agreed Transport 12 plan require that additional financial decisions under the financial framework of the plan be made in the budget frameworks and in the budgets for the coming years. This was also required by Parliament in its statement on the Transport 12 plan, and it has just been strongly repeated. In the 22 budget, the allocation for the development of corridors will continue throughout Finland major transport projects for which decisions have already been taken in the past. Almost EUR 2 billion of projects are currently under way, the recovery effect of which appears to be timely. Last year's third amending budget also decided on the development and verification phase of the Digitrack. The project renews the Finnish network access control system in line with the European system. Kouvola-Kotka test track and later the Satakunta pilot track will create a more efficient and secure digital rail system that will also create a new 5G-based export business. A large part of the project will be funded by the EU Recovery and Recovery Facility. Mr President! To stay on track: In its report on the budget, the Committee on Finance has supplemented the contractual mandate by which we are now reaching an agreement on VR's procurement services for a period of 9 years. It is significant that, alongside the transport system strategy for the next decade, we already have a view of the continuation of basic rail services until the end of the decade. I would like to thank the VR Group for the fact that in the middle of a pandemic that has collapsed the number of passengers, which will take between 2 and 3 years to recover unless longer, we have been able to assure citizens and businesses that the level of service before the pandemic, the connections at that time and the frequency of shifts will be maintained. This certainty for years to come will enable the average worker to consider moving from the wheel of a car to the tracks. The next step is to increase commuter trains where it makes sense, but there is no point in being impatient. We will also explore alternatives to the conditions for organising regional transport. So far, no urban region has indicated that it wishes to take on these significant economic risks. It is therefore a realistic objective that, once the train’s mode of transport section is restored and exceeds the targets, the services can be extended. For the sake of certainty, I would like to stress that the 9-year agreement does not give VR a monopoly on Finland's tracks, but opens up competition and makes a decisive contribution to competition. Mr President! In the spring, the government decided on a road map for fossil-free transport, which will be launched in the 22nd budget. A total of EUR 78 million will be allocated to the activities of the road map, of which approximately EUR 55 million will be allocated to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Other administrative sectors finance the improvement of the public charging infrastructure and gas refuelling network and the improvement of the charging infrastructure for residential and workplace buildings. The Ministry of Finance’s administrative sector includes a wide range of procurement and conversion aids. To conclude, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance warmly for the emphasis on cybersecurity. Security of communications networks, security and the prevention of disturbances and cyber threats are critical to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u256	Like this. Thank you, Minister Harakka. — Well, it seems that there is a willingness to debat. It's okay. Stand up, as you have risen, and press the V button, good old instruction. — Start with the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mr Kymäläinen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u257	Mr President! Indeed, first of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Transport Section of the Committee on Finance and Minister Harakka for this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u258	Vice-Chairman of the Committee, represented by Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u259	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, I too would like to thank Mr Jok and Minister Harakka for their presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u261	Mr President! Of course, I must thank you enough that, fortunately, some form of effort has been made even moderately for traffic, because in previous years it really has not even been reasonable what should have been put into these cases. However, as the chairman of the Transport Section, Mr Jokinen, pointed out in his very recent speech, these big rail projects are now going to be a bit of an obstacle even to getting this rail network in order, and I would agree quite a bit with Jokine's view that we should really invest in these. And, indeed, in the future, it would be desirable to really go ahead and leave the project companies and so on, and I hope that in a year's time, as a sugar base, the Minister's final draft budget will be:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u262	Yes, yes, yes. — and Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u263	Mr President! Indeed, in this budget for the coming year, the government of the country seems to have enough money for a good target, but what is surprising is that, in terms of safety and fluency, perhaps one of the most important things, it is not enough to close the repair debt on our roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u264	And Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u265	Mr President! This significant sized budget of the LVM also includes a huge amount of investment in sustainable transport, and thank you for that. Transport is, of course, the administrative sector where emission reductions are difficult, because mobility is compulsory for everyone. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, the money for walking and cycling is decreasing for the coming year, even though the Minister has managed to make it historically high this period. In order to make this sustainable transition, which also saves euros in both health care and infrastructure, i.e. to make more people move on their own muscle, it is likely to need considerably more euros, and it has been calculated that the euro invested in cycling will also come back as economic benefits. How do you see, Minister, would there be a need to raise this funding in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u266	And the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u267	Mr President! Mr Jokinen and Mr Laakso have already drawn attention to this one big problem, and the report by the Committee on Finance also draws attention to the fact that the fate of the big projects is open. This 12-transport system plan has already provided a clear overview of how to fill the repair debt and the basic infrastructure. But when there are these really big needs, which already exist in connection with this green transition, but otherwise what is involved in the renovation of the country's basic rail network, they will have such a billion-dollar gap for the years to come. That would perhaps be able to finance about half of what is needed over this 12 year period to upgrade the existing network and build additional tracks and so on. This is a clear task for the coming months and years. It is of the same level as this study and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u268	And the President of the responsible section, Mr Jokinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u272	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u273	Mr President! Cybersecurity is indeed a topical issue with these SMS and online scams, which is on the move to an enormous extent. The whole trust in digital transactions is at stake if those problems cannot be resolved. As far as driving is concerned, the situation is reasonably inconsolable. There is great concern about the increase in car prices due to potential motor vehicle traffic emissions trading. We're moving the car too fast to the electric base. Finland is not technologically neutral. Now that there have been even colder weather in the winter, they've been able to charge those cars again, and if the charging point hasn't worked, then there's a driver in trouble. Today, at the top of the media, there was such a joke about traffic that the government's medium-term climate plan even envisaged that women would be taxed less for electric motoring than men. Can the Minister now assure us that this plan, which sounds like a joke, will indeed remain some sort of flower in some papers and will not be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u274	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u275	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we must thank the Committee on Finance for the additions to my own province of Central Finland. We get Äänekoski to Konginkangas and Viitasaari, both, EUR 500000 for the light transport routes — thanks for that — and to Jyväskylä to Korpilahti to Petäjävesi gravel road, EUR 60000. This is important money, and it is great that such important reforms, investments in my country have been made, and of course much more, but these are now in the form of withdrawals from that Committee on Finance. However, I am concerned about accessibility, and my own province is in a somewhat difficult position in that that three-hour accessibility limit will not be achieved without air transport. This is a challenging situation, even with the interest rate, that what could be done about it. I would also like to ask the Minister about this withdrawal of the coalition concern about cyber security and digitalisation. In your opinion, when the coalition presents a reduction of EUR 90 million in the cost of social welfare reform, does it improve the activity of ict and cyber security?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u276	And Congressman Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u277	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with Mr Könttä's thanks for the dealership. For my part, I would also like to thank this government for its determination to close this infrastructure repair debt. It is also necessary to continue along this path for future governments, because our business life is highly dependent on good connections, as are the people living in the provinces. It is also essential for the people of the provinces that public transport should be improved. In particular, I hope that this commuter train will be re-introduced on the routes that have already been removed, which would be of enormous importance not only to the regional centres but also to their spending limits. I am also afraid that there will not be enough weight and funding for the overall development of public transport, although investing in it will support all the Government's objectives, both from the climate and employment point of view, and, above all, that we will be able to maintain the conditions for living elsewhere than within Ring Three.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u279	Värderade Talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka ministern för att nasta års budget innehåller många project som främjar våra transportnät och en mer kolidoxidsnål trafik. Biltrafiken minskar då alternativen är så smidiga som vöjligt, aven för längre sträckor. Utveckling av bangården i Åbo och byggande av dubbelspår på sträckan Kuppis—Åbo är TVå viktiga project.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u280	Mr President! That's a little soft, that's what Mr. Car said. It must be remembered that at the end of the previous government term the Finnish highways were paved about 1,700 kilometres, in 2020 about 4,000 kilometres and this year also well over 3,000 kilometres, and it is reflected in the very brisk increase in funding for basic bus maintenance, which has now been agreed on for 12 years. Of course, it is a pity that LJS 12 does not yet appear in the budget for 2022 for understandable reasons. We have more than 2 billion, historic transport investments, more than 2 billion, currently on the move. That's great. Well, then to this accessibility of the provinces, which Mr Könttä made very clear: the three-hour accessibility is, fortunately, the backboard that I hope will ensure the accessibility of the provinces in terms of both air and rail transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u281	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u282	Mr President! The Transport 12 working group set a target of 1% of GDP for transport infrastructure investments. All right, that was my proposal and it was adopted unanimously. Of course, this has not yet been achieved. But I hope that this will be achieved and that this Chamber will certainly aim at it. Mr President! However, I am very sorry that the government spends half of this RRF money, the EU recovery package, on greening. They should be put on the fairway projects, when the Finnish economy and transport rose, to receive a boost that would be visible in the national economy. If this does not happen, what do you think, Minister, that a loan of EUR 10 billion should now be made, as has been done for many other purposes, and that the routes should be put in order over the next five years?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u283	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u285	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u287	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u289	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u297	Thank you. — Representative Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u301	Thank you. — Representative Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u305	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u313	Thank you. — Congressman Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u322	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u475	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u493	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u494	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u495	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u496	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u497	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u498	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u499	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u500	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u501	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u502	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u503	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u504	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u505	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u506	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u507	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u508	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u509	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u510	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u511	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u512	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u513	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u514	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u515	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u516	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u517	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u518	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u519	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u520	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u521	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u522	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u523	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u524	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u525	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u526	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u527	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u528	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u529	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u530	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u531	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u532	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u533	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u534	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u535	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u536	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u537	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u538	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u539	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u540	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u541	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u542	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u543	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u544	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u545	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u546	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u547	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u548	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u549	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u550	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u551	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u552	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u553	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u554	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u555	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u556	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u557	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u558	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u559	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u560	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u561	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u562	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u563	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u564	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u565	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u566	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u567	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u568	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u569	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u570	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u571	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u572	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u573	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u574	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u575	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u576	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u577	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u578	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u579	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u580	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u581	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u582	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u583	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u584	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u585	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u586	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u587	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u588	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u589	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u590	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u591	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u592	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u593	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u594	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u595	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u596	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u597	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u598	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u599	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u600	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u601	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u602	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u603	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u604	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u605	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u606	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u607	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u608	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u609	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u610	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u611	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u612	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u613	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u614	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u615	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u616	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u617	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u618	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u619	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u620	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u621	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u622	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u623	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u624	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u625	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u626	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u627	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u628	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u629	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u630	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u631	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u632	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u633	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u634	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u635	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u636	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u637	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u638	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u639	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u640	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u641	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u642	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u643	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u644	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u645	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u646	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u647	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u648	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u649	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u650	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u651	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u652	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u653	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u654	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u655	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u656	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u657	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u658	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u659	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u660	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u661	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u662	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u663	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u664	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u665	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u666	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u667	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u668	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u669	Mr President! We are faced with a difficult matter, but we will continue to discuss this extension of the corona passport. And I would first like to tell you something like that, I have a headline on Yleisradio in my photo about the corona infection in Keuruu. The title is as follows: ‘Police do not suspect a crime in the form of a corollary infection. A 93-year-old died of a disease that was likely to be caused by an unvaccinated nurse. According to the police, home care workers visiting the elderly have followed the instructions. A nurse infected with interest was not aware of her infection.’ More information is available in Yle’s news: ‘A 93-year-old woman has been visited by an unvaccinated home care worker with a corona infection. When the case came to light, a corona test was carried out on a 93-year-old with a positive result. After that, his condition deteriorated rapidly.” And this has been investigated by the police, and this is Yle’s news of this matter. But when I go to the next page, this is the big story.fi, there is news about the same thing: “Policesaid from the City of Turku that the death of an elderly person who has passed away in home care has occurred. “ As well as reading this news,I think it’s The report is good and thorough. It shows that the elderly person who died was treated by several nurses without knowing that they were suffering from corona disease," says Inspector Kari Aaltio of the Inland Finland Police Department.’ The image of this to me is that this Yle’s news has been built in such a way that the guilt burden is brought down among this unvaccinated nurse. And at least it gives me the impression that there have been several nurses who have visited it, but only one of them has been unvaccinated. This is the kind of thing I care about. But then to this government proposal. Here are: ‘The committees have madethe following statements, i.e. ‘to enable the cultural and sports sector, as a rule, to organise events and activities The Economic and Social The Committee on Social So here is the key to this health safety. How can this legislation, in principle, be based on the idea that coronas are used to produce health safety when everyone knows that those vaccinated can spread corona and become ill? Health safety is a definition based on corona vaccine without a sustainable basis. This corona vaccine does not solve the fact that the person is not spreading the corona, but whether the person is carrying the virus at that time or not. Since the vaccine is pushing down the symptoms of the disease, you may ask: is the vaccine actually carrying the virus more discreetly than the unvaccinated virus? Health safety would require an up-to-date test result for vaccinated and non-vaccinated subjects. The vaccine protects only the person from a form of disease that is more serious than himself. Mr President! Then from volunteer to mandatory. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs shall state as follows: ‘The expertconsultation is the best way to prepare a change in the So it's mandatory? Therefore, the use of the interest pass is planned to be compulsory and not to be chosen by the service provider on a voluntary basis. What's this all about? Mr President! The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs also states: ‘For the consultation of a committee expert, reference is made to the need to The employer does not currently have the possibility to require a corona certificate from employees. From the point of view of safety at work, it is contradictory that you cannot require a corona certificate from an employee who is in the same state as the customers and the public for whom a corona certificate is required.’ The Committee on Transport and Tourism has stated: ‘In the context of anexpert consultation,the need to prepare a passport to So in the future, you're just gonna let me go to work with a corona pass? Are we now also introducing a worker's corona passport for all these services, which may be subject to a corona passport in the future, rather than being considered optional, as is the case now? In this case, the corona passport would be a compulsory extension rather than a voluntary extension and would also apply to employees as well as to the public and participants. [The President knocks ] The KoronaPass in this form would start to be very hard,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u670	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u671	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u672	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-15-ps-152.u673	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
