ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u2	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u3	Mr President! There is another bad news about industry: jobs and innovations went elsewhere when Neste, the Finnish company, almost half of which is owned by the Finnish state, took its billion-dollar investment to Rotterdam instead of Porvoo. It seems that Finnish corporate governance, i.e. the Board of Directors, looked directly at the tummies and explained afterwards. Industrial investment decisions are made with very long profitability calculations, and I have to say that the Government's purely industrialist and wedge-eyed climate policy will not help. Together with Finnish pension companies, the state would have had a majority of decision-making powers. During your time, the liquid drove down the refinery in Naantali and took a billion-dollar investment to Holland. What are you going to do to improve the competitiveness of industry, or are you going to continue, under the guise of climate policy, to bring it down?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u4	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you for this question. Yes, at the very beginning, as Minister of State Ownership Steering, I would like to say that Neste's decision on the location of this new refinery is disappointing for me and for the government as a whole. We worked for it and we also communicated the owner's view to the company's management that we would have liked to have seen a economically viable investment for us in Finland and Porvoo, but while I say this, it has to be said that now that a decision was made on this site of the refinery, it was already quite clear at the beginning that the more favourable conditions for this investment were in principle already in place there in Rotterdam. This was an isolated case, and this is not about Finland's competitiveness in itself. Significant investment decisions have recently been made in Finland, including Metsä Group Kemi, but the location of this Neste refinery was selected as a location based on an overall economic analysis in Rotterdam, and this was a decision taken by the company.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u10	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u11	Madam President! First of all, a few points: This government has dropped the energy tax on industry to the EU minimum — a very big and important issue for Finnish industry. In fact, the plus elements you raised in this situation were Finland's cheaper energy price, which was decided by this government, a blending obligation that this government has made, which means that this government has come to good decisions on the industrial side. In this questionable case, the cost structure was such that we simply did not succeed in Finland. We went through the Ministry of the Economy throughout our map of the subsidies that are legally provided or available for this case, and I must say that we did not get very close to the level offered by Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u13	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u14	Madam President! The Finnish export industry has many burdens that we cannot affect: long transport distances, for example, and the fact that we are geographically far from our export market. However, it is the role of the government, through the means at its disposal, to compensate for the difficult operating environment. The cost of energy and transport could be influenced by taxation and full emissions trading compensation. Pressure to increase wage costs could be curbed by reducing labour taxation and secondary costs, as well as housing and mobility costs. Unfortunately, the policy of the red-green government, such as the accelerated phasing-out of peat and coal and the increase in fuel taxes, is moving in exactly the opposite direction. Instead of supporting its own industry, Finland supports the industry of its competitors through recovery packages. Is a green transition to transfer factories from here to Central and Southern Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u15	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u16	Madam President! As far as the green transition is concerned, about half of the part of the recovery package, for example, is specifically put on the new sides, i.e. mainly on the hydrogen side and raising it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u17	And Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u18	Mr President! Perhaps it would be a good idea for the company itself to respond to these arguments or arguments that you make and that you believe that the company took a negative decision for Finland. It is not up to my sector to promote this project, but I was in a very large number of meetings where the company went through this. And I know how owner guidance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs were building a package here that could help with this investment decision in Finland. But when it comes to a factory with its main raw material as waste from the food industry, central Europe is simply much closer to the raw material. And when the finished product is sold in the same area, there are already two major reasons why this factory, this type of production, was clearly not the right location for the company. Neste has also made huge investments Asia on exactly the same grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u19	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u20	Madam Speaker! The history of liquid is a success story in which the state has always been involved. What if Uolevi Raade had once found it cheaper to do abroad? It is shocking that we have gone down this road, and it seems that the national self-esteem of the government is completely zero when it is just said that it is not worth it, it is cheaper elsewhere, it is relocated. On the grounds of costs, the refinery was driven down in Naantali. Now, on the grounds of cost, a new one will be built in Holland. I mean, it's supposed to be a homecoming thing, isn't it? The state ownership of the liquid is so large that we have to ask this now and wonder if the corporate governance has given it all we can. Together, Finnish owners, institutional owners, will certainly still receive more than 50%. Why the Board of Directors does not require an extraordinary general meeting to be convened and present
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u21	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u22	Mr President! The liquid is not leaving Finland anywhere. Neste is strongly committed to Finland, and we support the fact that Neste will continue to invest in Porvoo. Over the last five years, EUR 2 billion has already been invested in it, and the company has said that this year, and this year too, half a billion will be invested in Porvoos. The goal is that Neste's operations will be carbon neutral in Porvoo by 2035. This means that the company makes a lot of investments in Finland and Porvooise. The company’s research, development and innovation centre will also be in Finland in the future, and this is a very important point, because where the company’s research is located tells a lot about the company’s commitment. I say that it is quite a lot for the opposition parties to say that we should have fired the government and the CEO. We are not living in a market economy in which politicians command listed companies. We live in a market economy where decisions are made on the basis of overall economic judgement, and in a listed company, the state as a major owner
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u23	Congressman Antikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the government has a lot of bad explanations, but you have little responsibility. I don't blame you for Neste's decision. Apparently, the Dutch Government has supported them better than this Sanna Marin government, which is screaming red and green. The Finnish Government has increased the cost of living ordinary people by its decisions [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u25	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u26	Mr President! When talking about the green transition as opposed to industrial investment, it is good to take into account, for example, this recent decision by Neste, that this is an investment which means moving away from fossil fuels to more sustainable fuels. So this investment decision unfortunately went to Rotterdam, but it is part of this green transition, [Laughter from the Versus Finns Group] We need solutions to replace fossil fuels, and Neste is one of the world's leading...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u29	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u30	Mr President! As Minister Lintilä said earlier, we do not have the information that the Netherlands has paid for this support, and I hope that the Finns of Finland will resolve this question for the next Question Time. You just said that: The Netherlands would have been more supportive. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u31	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u32	Mr President! In a market economy, if the owner tells the company to make decisions that are bad for the company, the company will wither. Neste has made excellent decisions for itself over the past ten years, which is why it has bets and jobs in Finland and is also able to invest. But this choice does tell us that we are actually in a difficult position to get investments, especially those that are not based on Finnish raw material, and we need more than a Finnish raw material industry. From the old, I believe that if this had been up to the subsidies, this government would have won. [Department : Yes! ] But can you assure us, Prime Minister, that, for example, the report by the Ministry of Finance from January puts corporate taxation at the heart of the question that Finnish companies can from now on rely on the taxing of the corporate base in Finland...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u35	Like this. — And the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u36	Mr President! The Government is committed to taking decisions during this parliamentary term to achieve 80,000 new jobs in structural terms. On this path and path we will continue, and we will make these decisions in the spending limits debate. I don't go into details. These issues will certainly be negotiated, and each government party will have its own incomes and proposals, but I have no doubt that solutions will not be reached together. With regard to this investment, I believe that it was resolved by two things: Logistical location — the Minister of Finance well described this whole — from the point of view of both the export of these raw materials and the export of the final product. So the logistical location, and the other big thing that was solved here, were simply the cost of building an investment. That is what we are trying to catch up with. We are looking for all the instruments that we would have had in the meantime, in order to catch up with this gap, but unfortunately we were unable to catch it up. That breakup was so big for Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u37	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u39	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u40	Madam President! Security of supply does not belong in itself to my own role, but nevertheless I know that there has been a debate on this issue in the Naantali case, and Mrs Routila will also draw attention to this. In fact, I think it will be a report for me next week, and it must be mentioned at the same time that today the Government has put EUR 600000 there to develop Naantali's activities. But Mrs Kanerva had a very relevant question. I have also had a debate with a Swedish colleague on this issue, because Sweden has a little bit of a problem with Neste, and that will certainly be one part that we still have to go through very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u41	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u42	Mr President, ärade fru talman! According to a recent study, only 2% of entrepreneurs considered the government's interest rate measures to be very clear and predictable, and more than half of the companies considered the government's activities to be confusing. I have said many times in the autumn and spring that companies should be exempt from paying tax on profits if they invest. The Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, expressed similar ideas yesterday. So I ask you, Mr Vanhanen: are you going to take this to the halfway line because this would increase jobs, and do you think you can get this through?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u43	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u44	Mr President! The Government is preparing for a mid-term debate, and that is where we aim to strengthen the growth conditions in Finland, and a wide range of measures are being explored and the possibilities for their implementation are being explored. We'll come back to this after the mid-term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u45	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u46	Madam President! The liquid's decision to build a new refinery in Rotterdam is a big disappointment. It is important for all of us that Neste is able to manage and create jobs in Finland. On the world market, demand for zero-emission fuels is growing strongly. Biofuels have a role to play here. However, due to the shortage of raw materials, they cannot be more than part of the solution. In addition, we need synthetic fuels produced with clean electricity. Finland has a very promising research and product development activity in this area, carried out by VTT and the University of Eastern Finland with leading Finnish industrial companies. So I ask Minister Lintilä: How can we help Neste and other companies invest in electricity fuel in Finland? How do we ensure that we are able to make progress in this area? How do we get these new plants and jobs to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u47	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u48	Madam President! As I think I already tried this topic a little earlier, and as the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, said, this investment in Neste cannot be said to be innovation, because that is when we talk about the use of old fats for biofuels, but I am also very interested in this hydrogen side and these synthetic fuels in general. When Germany held the Presidency in that first half of last summer, I personally noticed that Germany’s very strong emphasis on the hydrogen side will be visible. It will definitely speed up the development of these fuels, and Finland must be very closely involved in this. And, as I said this morning, I have been in contact with this sector for the last time on a very important investment. It seems that the Finnish industry is finding its own sector here in a certain way,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u49	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u50	Madam President! When we talk about Neste Oil, we have to look back a little bit. Neste Oil was born from the fact that first Imatra Power and Neste were put together as Fortum and that Neste Oil was removed from Fortum. These have been state companies, the crown jewels of the state, which would not have been possible and we would not discuss them if society, the state, had not invested heavily in them. These large companies could not have been created without the government's input. Later, Neste Oil, Fortum, has been sold, has been privatised. When I looked, the Prime Minister’s Office owns 36 per cent of Neste Oil and at the same time 40 per cent of Neste Oil is listed on the stock exchange. We don't even know who the owners are. And the question is: Shouldn't we look to the future and see what fine property these have produced for the state? Don't you think we should start building new, similar state-owned companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u51	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u52	Madam President! The state wants to pursue an active ownership policy, be a long-term, moderate owner and thus contribute in many ways to the employment, well-being and sustainable growth of the nation as a whole. That is the policy of our ownership policy. Of course, as a minister, I cannot start trading, sell or buy. I'm sure everyone understands that, especially when it comes to listed companies. But yes I say that we have, for example, our anchor owner Solidium, who is active in the direction that we have companies operating in Finland, listed companies whose head office is in Finland. We are a willing anchor owner in companies that are important to us at national level, and that means active ownership policy. It must also be said that when we are the owner,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u53	Next question, Mr. Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u54	Mr President! The fight against Korona is a common cause for Finland as a whole, not only for Parliament and the Government, but for Finland as a whole, and the Coalition Party also supports effective and correct decisions and measures to combat it, if they are correct. It is precisely in the fight against interest rate measures that a logical whole must be established so that internal restraint measures support the work that is being done in other restrictive measures, such as border measures. These must form an equation that does not leak from any angle, and now for the last year the boundary has leaked. The virus has entered too easily. It is also widely recognised by ministers. Yesterday, the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland took a decision to enforce the compulsory tests on the basis of the Act on communicable diseases currently in force in Finland. Ministers have very much accused these regional government agencies, but now Avit said that the Government itself has been directing voluntary testing all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u55	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u56	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Häkkä for raising this issue of border security. Surely it is in the sorrows of all of us as to how things will continue to be done, and not just in this moment. This is the last part of your question, which is how we are prepared to ensure that, at some point in time, this current internal border inspection, which we have an exception to, may be removed or that the volume of the border will increase so much that this definition, which is now being introduced tomorrow, that everything will be directed to the test, may not work at that point. We are now preparing the model by which the borders are taken over, so that everyone does what is needed to make this whole thing work, and that guidance will be given to the field as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u57	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u58	Mr President! Well, that's not quite clear yet. If I were to ask the Prime Minister this: Now the Government has said publicly that compulsory tests have been required and sought, it has been a state of will since last summer. And the regional government agencies have now announced that this has not been a state of will. Well, now the Southern Finland avi acted independently on the basis of PeV's statement, and now it seems that things are moving in the right direction. Can you now confirm and ensure that the Government, by means of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, also sends a guidance letter to other regional authorities, that there will be forced tests everywhere at the borders, and then, in the autumn, October, this motion for a law which was still pending in Parliament on these preliminary tests, which the government parties in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also demand from the government, will be brought to Parliament as soon as possible? It has now been waiting for five months in that government, and can you prioritise this border security?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u59	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u60	Mr President! The will of the government is that everyone crossing the border will be tested. Of course, it is desirable that people voluntarily take part in the tests, but if they do not, then the openings should exercise the right to impose a human health check, which would then be part of the test. So the goal and will is, of course, to test everyone who comes across the border. This model, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, is the responsibility of Minister Kiuru, and he can certainly answer where this model is being created. Parliament's statement on this was made, and it will be followed up, just as the Minister of Responsibility has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u61	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u62	Mr President! Control of borders and health safety are everything a and o. If they leak, internal action is well behind. As passenger flows increase again, and even in this situation, interest rate dogs could also be used well for screening the passenger flow and picking up potential infected persons. However, the government has now objected to continuing training for coronas so that they can become official dogs of Customs. In practice, it should be obtained under the Customs Code Dog title in order to enable this training to take place. My question is: what is the reason for the training of coronas? Using Customs as an official dog cannot be done in the same way as using other tools in the fight against corona, such as breath tests? A domestic company that performs breath tests,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u63	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u64	Mr President! Of course, the government does not buy any breath tests and does not carry out these specific tests at the border, for which purpose the organisers responsible for the social welfare and health sector have been authorised under current legislation to do this work. Therefore, the municipalities are responsible, and many municipalities have introduced rapid tests and other methods that can be used as technology develops — and you are quite right to do so. As far as customs dogs are concerned, I myself have been positive in the view that this should be promoted. Experiments have been made on this, and just as the representative has already said, we also need new opportunities for this whole. Could this then be carried through in Parliament so that we can prove that the ability of coronars to identify those carrying corona would be a complete certainty and would be brought through the infectious disease legislation here,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u65	Congressman Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u66	Mr President! It has been quite difficult to understand why testing at the borders has not been put in order, when it has already worked elsewhere and the Constitution makes it possible. The difficulty is not sufficient to justify that the issue of preventing the entry of the disease has not been prioritised, but that corrective measures and restrictions on everyday life have been taken, and it is good that this is finally being tackled. Another key issue in this corona fight is vaccines. What is the government's assessment at the moment as to whether EU procurement can be trusted, or are you taking steps to enable domestic vaccine production? Secondly, in this context, assuming that vaccines will be delivered according to the objective: how has the government ensured that vaccinations with all their time reservations will be able to function smoothly throughout the country, that the population will be quickly vaccinated?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u67	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u68	Mr President! There is at least one good news about this whole vaccine in this minor atmosphere, as the number of infections continues to increase, even though we are in the process of blocking: The good news is that in these latest two-day-old statistics Finland is the third best in terms of vaccine coverage, which indicates that vaccination in Finland has progressed well. Taking only the adult population into account, we can already reach 15%. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u69	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u70	Mr President! The first part of Mr Ikonen's speech concerned the border, and I shall now repeat what has been done. First of all, Finland has had strict border control throughout this pandemic, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u71	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u72	Madam President! In Finland, I think it has been quite successful to contain the interest rate, but at the borders it has not been possible to combat the interest rate. Even today, we are not demanding a preliminary test on foreigners entering the country. I've been wondering why this is, and it might be that I found some kind of answer. It's already 19. On 28 February, at the STM press conference, Mr Keinänen, an STM official, said that ‘for reasons of fundamental law, passengers could not be subjected to a negativity test on the entry of the river into Finland’. This was on Yle's website. I thought this might be some sort of childhood, but today, on the website of the STM, there is a blog on the subject, where it is felt that fundamental rights problems prevent the requirement of a negative test certificate. Minister Kiuru, do they really think so in the STM?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u73	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u74	Mr President! I think that we and Mrs Zyskowicz in this Chamber have already raised the issue of whether our fundamental interpretation of interest rate matters is tense or overly tense or less tense. I think you may have guessed that we belong to the same clan here that it should be a little looser when we talk about whether the rights of these future people will prevail on the border, whether they come from Finland or from outside Europe, that is to say, whose rights in this respect weigh on the fact that if the virus enters the country, it will undoubtedly limit the fundamental rights of those living in Finland in this case as well. Now this blog, published on the website of the STM, gives you an excellent insight into how difficult it has been to legislate for a prior certificate. The preparation was based on the fact that there would be no such problems and that this could be provided for, and it must be stated in this regard,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u76	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u77	Thank you, Madam President. This border policy has been a bit of a bludgeon. It cannot be that the borders have been leaked for a year, that it is a dangerous infectious disease and that people cannot be required to provide proof or anything else. Something must be done about this and very quickly and quickly. And if you think about testing, it's a good thing to test, but then you also have to think about the cost. When a lot of people from abroad come to Finland, will Finland pay for their testing, or have you now applied for EU grants? And if you think that we are receiving EU stimulus money, could this stimulus money not now be used to treat this interest rate as intended? But when you put it into climate action. Would it not make more sense to use this issue of corona rather than climate action? What do you think of this? I also wonder about this vaccine issue and, in general, about pharmaceutical policy. We are rather self-sufficient in the vaccine and pharmaceutical policy. That is regrettable and I hope that this pharmaceutical industry will receive more attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u78	All right, and Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u79	Mr President! I think this is where some facts need to be corrected. At present, 1% of infections are those that in some way can be located outside Finland’s borders. Unfortunately, the disease is here in the country. That is why I consider it important that all means be used. It is important that the negative test certificate now comes in addition to the fact that we have had strict internal border controls throughout the year, as the Prime Minister has said well before. Let us also correct Mr Zyskowicz's fact that not everyone can get to Finland at the moment. Finland can only come to Finland for very well-founded, necessary reasons and, for example, issues related to security of supply. At the moment, border traffic is less than 95% of what is normal. Everyone understands that this is not a normal situation and borders are very closed. But the right of the Finnish citizen is always to return to the country, freight traffic is needed, the medicines are here on the pharmacy shelves and there is plenty of food in the shops.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u80	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u81	Mr President! Let me recap what I have just said when we are discussing this whole border. We have been subject to internal border and external border controls all along, and this has significantly reduced the number of people entering the country. However, these do not apply to Finnish citizens, for example, who have the right to enter and cross the border. As far as these negative pre-test certificates are concerned, these are already being requested by carriers, for example the shipping company or the airline already requires these test certificates, which is already in use, even though it is not currently used by Raja. On top of that, the borders will be tested. They will be tested and it would also be possible to test those who refuse a voluntary test. It is very good that the avi is now also introducing this instrument. But such claims that as if the limit completely leaks, nothing has been done, is a slurry border control, are not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u82	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u83	Madam President! Let us take this back to the perspective of Europe. However, the majority of EU countries are capable of doing this. For months now, citizens of other countries have been required to prove either that they have been ill, that they have had a prior test or that they have been vaccinated. This is also reflected in the report received by the Administrative Committee last month from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do not know what to think of this Prime Minister’s argument that Finland has the highest border control — that is not true —
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u84	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u85	Mr President! Border control and border health security measures are two different issues:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u88	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u89	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz made an excellent speech on this subject here on 23 February, in which he pointed out what this is all about. I would urge everyone to read that speech. This stems from the 2016 Act on communicable diseases, the justification in section 16, which states: if a person refuses a voluntary test, a mandatory test may be carried out on the person. Our leading court interpreters, professors, took the view that this excludes a group of tests, a group of tests, and such thinking also took over the activities of our authorities, even though this Article 16 The wording is unambiguous and clear, as I myself have said in April, for example, and in August, when this same issue came into crisis. Now I ask Minister Kiuru: do you think that this interpretation has now been changed?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u90	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u91	Well, Mr President, I will not comment on who brought about this great change, but in August our interpretation was exactly what Mr Lindén said here. There's a fragility in that, in that section. It's not entirely water clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u94	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u95	Madam President! The Government has justified Finland’s participation in the EU recovery package, above all by its influence on the Finnish export markets. A number of experts, the Christian Democrats, have already expressed doubts that this recovery package has little or no effect on our exports. Now the Ministry of Finance itself will present the calculations which show that the share received by Finland would be a modest increase of about half a percentage point over three years. And in 2026, in fact, our GDP would, according to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, be equal to what it would be without this whole recovery tool. [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u96	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u97	Mr President! That calculation by the Ministry of Finance is a clean mechanical calculation, [Laughter — The President knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u98	Next question, Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u99	Mr President! The Ministry of Justice left the municipalities with instructions that they should act in violation of the law in force and leave the lists of candidates for municipal elections unconfirmed. So the government solved the legal problem by breaking the law. When the rudeness was revealed, the matter was corrected by a new instruction and the election director was made to minimize and explain the event. Is such a machination possibly related to some greater folly? Who should take responsibility for this? Prime Minister, who do you think should be sued now, the Minister of Justice or the Prime Minister? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u100	There's no Attorney General here. Is the Prime Minister answering?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u101	So, to the question of who should be sued for a court of law, Prime Minister or Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u103	Next question, Mr Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u104	Madam President! Last autumn, the Parliament was subjected to a cyberintelligence operation, which is now being investigated as espionage, a serious breach of information and a serious violation of communications secrecy. Above all, it is a gross attack on our democracy. According to the Protection Police, the action is based on state action. According to various estimates, it has even been said that the tracks would lead to China. But now they're asking about our ability to prepare. How did Finland react? How can we be prepared for such attacks? How do we train experts, increase cooperation at EU level and, above all, improve our information security? What will the government do to prevent such attacks? Finally, Mr President, what can we do to ensure that we can all work in peace for this democracy?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u105	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u106	Mr President! I will reply for my part, but of course the Minister of Transport and Communications will also answer questions concerning the Cybersecurity Centre. The key question is whether we understand that cybersecurity concerns all of us, especially those of us who are making decisions about the affairs of Finnish society. We must ensure that we protect our own cyber behaviour. It is a question of continuing to train more people throughout society, of increasing understanding, from childhood onwards it is said that the dangers that lie in the web are real dangers and concern us all. It is of course important to provide security authorities with all their resources, and the internal security reporting work currently being prepared will also take a stand on this cyber security side. On the one hand, it is a question of whether we have enough police to investigate these issues, how we resource intelligence, the protection police, whose resources in recent years have been much tougher than in recent years, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u107	Minister Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u108	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for this important question. Between November and January, the Ministry of Transport and Communications set up a working group by the Government to investigate the improvement of information security and data protection in critical sectors of society after this breakthrough. It was attended by a large number of ministries and public authorities, as well as security authorities. The final report was published last month and presents a number of policy proposals, 36 overall, to improve information security and data protection in critical industries. They relate to legislation, they relate to cooperation between authorities, they relate to EU engagement. In addition to this, we are also about to publish a cybersecurity development programme which will focus on how skills could be increased, plus, of course, on how this knowledge of ours will also become a business for which the world is increasingly in demand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u109	Next question, Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u110	Madam President! This week, the government decided on the criteria for the allocation of the EU Recovery Instrument, and no matter what the opinion of this Recovery Instrument, these criteria have received broad support and appreciation from both Finnish industry and economic experts. It is quite historical that a billion dollars will be put into the green transition, plus money for digitalisation, [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u111	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u112	Madam President! Indeed, the interest rate has been very hard on tourism. We already had a very strong programme for the digitalisation of tourism, already in place last season, with separate funding. Now we have a great situation to continue, because today tourism is becoming increasingly digital. In fact, there is a lot of talk about virtual tourism today, so perhaps companies can also get funding there. Then there is this aspect of sustainable tourism too, and clearly the biggest problem there is competence. So if you look at that stimulus package, there are quite a few points there that can be financed for tourism. I very much believe that Finland's advantage in tourism will be sustainable tourism. We have very good elements for that. All we have to do is make sure that tourism entrepreneurs are able to provide it, have the necessary training and digitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u113	We will take one more question, Mr Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u114	Värderade Talman! Yesterday, many theaters gathered to send greetings to us decision makers. The activities also involve hiring freelancers and preparing future software. It's hard to predict interest rate...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u115	Mr President! Last Monday, there were more than 50 organisations and actors from the cultural sector to share their experiences with the past, very heavy year. I think that there are many people in Finland who have understood the value of culture and its experiences only when the majority of it is excluded from us. As practical solutions, we also went over that example from Denmark on various occasions. What is most important is that we are now in a position to make grant decisions on the part of freelancers decided on by means of an amending budget, which will ensure that those cultural factors that have fallen in the past are now receiving that duty-free allowance. They will be distributed regionally through expert committees. But in addition to the whole field of events, where culture and cultural factors, of course, get the jobs and the work done, there is a guarantee of support being prepared to have a hope view of the summer so,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u116	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u117	Mr President! Thus, there is a Government decree on the right of the municipality to temporarily fail to comply with the time limits for urgent care of health care. In the event of a rapidly worsening disease situation, the functioning of hospital and intensive care must be ensured, in particular. On the basis of the Act on Preparedness of 5.3., the Government adopted a decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Articles 86 and 88 of the Act on Preparedness, which is valid from 11 March to 30 April. Last Thursday, Parliament decided that the regulation may remain in force except as regards the application of the regulation in the province of Åland. The Government has made a change to the adoption regulation for Åland as required by Parliament. The present Regulation is also an implementing regulation which provides for more detailed application of the powers under Article 88(1) of the Emergency Act. Under Article 10 of the Emergency Act, the Parliament will carry out an ex post verification of the Regulation and decide whether it may remain in force. The Regulation concerns the possibility for the municipality to waive compliance with the time limits laid down in the Health Care Act in the organisation of emergency care where this is necessary for the organisation of emergency care and if the patient’s health is not compromised by exceeding the deadline. When dealing with the adoption regulation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew particular attention to the need to limit regional application only to the most heavily affected areas. This Regulation now provides that derogations from the time limits may be granted only in the case of special medical treatment. In special care, the treatment guarantee is, as a rule, six months from the assessment of the need for treatment. The derogation is only applicable in the area of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. The disease situation in Finland is the most difficult in the HUS region, and according to information from the service system, the treatment guarantee flexibility In the HUS region, it is necessary to ensure the functioning of human health services. So it's imperative that we go now. Mr President! The Regulation allows HUS to prepare for the treatment of covid-19 patients and other patients in need of urgent care, for example by transferring unurgent surgery. The power to act may be exercised only if it is necessary for the organisation of urgent care. Patient safety must also not be compromised and treatment should be given within a reasonable time. The regulation would also provide that the deadlines should not be overly pro-actively waived. Thus, on the basis of the information available to the Government, there is currently no need for treatment guarantee flexibility in primary health care or special care in the areas of other hospital districts. However, as the disease develops, the situation can change rapidly. Other regions will therefore be more able to implement the current management guarantee. The so-called care and service debt is different in different ways in Finland. The Government will now closely monitor the need to extend the scope of the regulation in the future in the event of a change in the disease situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u118	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u119	Mr President! A nursing debt incurred during the interest rate cannot be taken lightly. Unfortunately, it seems that the maintenance debt will inevitably continue to increase. We are in a situation here in the capital region in particular where the interest rate is a major burden on health care. It is clear that if urgent care can be passed on without endangering the health of the patient and is necessary to provide urgent care, this should be done. Thus, the Government decree in the referral debate gives municipalities and joint municipal authorities this opportunity without fear of sanctions for violating the prescribed deadlines. The deadlines for urgent care have been set for a good reason. Even if the patient’s health is not at risk, there is a number of urgent care measures that will significantly improve the patient’s health and quality of life. Even urgent treatment is often the beginning of a new, more active life cycle. President! In this context, I am particularly concerned about the situation of mental health services for children and young people. We all know which wounds this time threatens young people to leave. I would therefore appeal to the Minister to take a particularly serious view of the fact that children's and young people's cries for help, the need for help, the loneliness of the mind and the structures of broken life are not being left alone now, even if they are being postponed to excesses. They are living a life of ‘here and there’s concern about accumulation and social loneliness, causingnausea More and more anxiety, suicidal thoughts, loneliness, violence, bullying at school, substance abuse, and inequality have been observed in young people. I am also concerned about missing young people in schools, where distance learning has caused them to be unable to be contacted and their learning to be interrupted. President! I hope that this temporary bill on the right of the municipality to temporarily fail to comply with the deadlines for urgent care of health care would not result in a delay in counselling young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u120	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u121	Madam President! Just as Minister Kiuru said, now it does not just look that way, but the situation is that the spread of the corona is clearly regional. The situation is particularly difficult in the large cities of Southern Finland, and of course this regulation on the right of the municipality to temporarily fail to comply with the time limits for urgent care in health care, which are now applicable in the Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital District. It may not always come up, but the treatment periods for corona patients are considerable and the treatment is particularly demanding. This puts a lot of strain on the medical staff, but it also requires more care. On the positive side, as the Minister has said, there is no need in the rest of Finland not to comply with the time limits for urgent care, but the situation may change, and it is of course now particularly important that various restrictions and guidelines prevent the spread of the corona. Mr President! Representative Kivisaari raised an important issue, a care debt and its growth. When certain diseases and illnesses of people are not treated or treatment is postponed, that is always a serious matter. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether discussions have been held at the moment on the way in which the growth of this medical debt will be brought to an end following this acute crisis, as well as the fact that, in addition to those being treated today, nurses are also very hard-working — both mental and physical — on the treatment of corona patients — in what way to support the work of nurses and other hospital staff at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u122	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u123	Madam President! The good minister and colleagues and the rest of the plenary session will follow! The Government has therefore applied for the right not to comply with the time limits for urgent care of health care. In fact, in this debate, I myself would like to talk specifically about this therapeutic debt which has caused and causes it. After all, as a result of the Corona virus epidemic, hospital districts have had to move out of emergency care in hospitals in the spring and early summer of last year, and in fact many patients also withdrew these measures on their own. Their problems were also caused by these restrictive measures against people over 70 last spring. There a lot of elderly people missed out on many treatments and controls. In fact, there were record numbers of people waiting for urgent treatment at the end of last year. In December 2020 more than 140,000 Finns expected access to hospitals in hospital districts, of which about 5 per cent had been waiting for more than six months for emergency care. More than six months of waiting for urgent treatment were then, or have been normally in December, about 1,500, and now at the end of last year, in December, nearly 8,000. It was pointed out in this debate that these measures, which Mr Kivisaari pointed out, could have been taken without endangering the health of these people. I am sorry to disagree with you on this. The messages are such that, for many people, things have gone much worse during this period. More than two million treatment visits have been missed and, in fact, there has been talk of up to one billion care debts, and it is only getting worse in these treatment lines. In fact, the queues for special care are record lengths, and this last year has seen an increase in health inequalities among Finns. It's a fact. The nursing debt is reflected in the health of these people for a very long time, and it is also reflected in the national economy for a long time. This is particularly evident now in the case of those over 70 years of age. They, the elderly, the number of visitors and the number of visits, as I said earlier, fell significantly in health centers as a result of the spring corona measures. And some of these people have found themselves in a very difficult situation during this corona. Mr President! Most queues last autumn had been created for cataract surgery. There were about 2,500 people waiting over six months. Thereafter, groin and scar hernia surgery, umbilical hernia surgery, knee and hip replacement surgery and, among other things, tooth removal surgery were very high on these lists. As early as August last year, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health estimated that the primary health care care debt was up to EUR 250 million and that special care was up to EUR 400 million. So this was the situation in August, and now it is even more difficult. It's not easy to catch up on the nursing debt. Master Emeritus Professor in General Medicine Olli-Pekka Ryynänen stated that there is no substitute for cataract surgery or dental treatment, for example, except that they are performed. Mr President! In the end, it is not just about money, it is also about who can take these measures. Of course, if it is possible for us health care professionals to have additional work done or to buy services from private hospitals or other health care districts, additional money will certainly help in that situation. However, on this big issue, ladies and gentlemen and Minister, we also need to be able to cope with our health professionals, to be able to cope with our nurses, to be able to cope with the doctors. And I would like to ask: how has the government reacted to the wish of our carers that the government, along with this help from the carers, should now meet these very hard-on nurses? They are now in a very tight position and not all of these nurses have, by the way, been able to cope, Minister. And this bill is also visible in our young people. Young people have been the worst sufferers of this corona crisis alongside the elderly. And I can't help re-emphasizing this therapy guarantee today. Its annual cost is 40 million, and we would be able to guarantee these young people, who have now had a very difficult time with different exceptional times, that they would receive help. And I would ask Minister Kiuru: is this therapeutic guarantee still to be brought to Parliament during this term of government, or is it to remain under the responsibility of many future governments, like others?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u124	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u125	Madam President! Together, we must support the right measures to combat the pandemic. As Minister Kiuru said, this regulation implementing the Emergency Act will ensure adequate medical and intensive care. Exceptions from the time limits may be made to special medical care in the Helsinki and Uusimaa regions. Last spring, when we were faced with an unknown enemy, urgent treatment was again driven down in some areas in retrospect, even too forward-looking. In some areas, direct under-utilisation of nursing may have occurred for a period of time. In any case, there was a care debt that should be taken seriously, as Mr Kivisaari said earlier. Of course, the maintenance debt began to be closed in a quieter period of the pandemic. There were not very many regional restrictions decisions last spring. Now the regulation concerns a restricted area. In fact, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have recently pointed out that, when we restrict ourselves, we must be able to make restrictions regionally and more subtlely. The disease appears to differ clearly from one region to another. As we know, the situation in large cities is difficult, but many farmers have had no infections for a long time, and they want to implement the instructions scrupulously. Constitutional experts have repeatedly highlighted this need for more sophisticated restrictions. Madam President! The exceptional arrangements and effects of the Korona period have been a challenge at almost all levels of school. Surveys of the National Education Evaluation Centre and the University of Turku project show that learning in distance education was clearly weaker and that young people's anxiety and problems of coping became more common. These effects of exceptional circumstances were particularly felt by vulnerable young people. Some of the kids have been lost, loneliness has gotten worse. Feelings of loneliness, depression and depression have shown strong growth in secondary students in Helsinki during the corona period, says Arja Kukkonen, Director of Civilization in this area. Many youths have been left alone, and the problems of the mind have increased. According to THL’s expert report, one quarter of people of working age aged 15 to 74 now experience more feelings of loneliness than before a corona pandemic. Loneliness has increased especially among young people and highly educated people. We should also consider how much in our society there is hidden nausea, which only comes out after the corona. When work needs to be prioritised in health care as a result of the interest rate, I think it is important that young people who have fallen from a pandemic are taken care of in the crisis and everything is involved. In mental health services for children and adolescents, the assessment of the need for treatment should be started within three weeks of the arrival of the referral. It's a minimum requirement. I would ask the Minister: can this minimum requirement be too late, however, if we have been moving too late?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u126	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u127	Madam President! A regulation is certainly necessary in this situation, the statistics and the situation are serious enough and should be taken seriously. In other words, I have no objection to this regulation in itself. I'm sorry we've come this far. My question to Minister Kiuru concerns this urgent treatment, the deadlines for the application of this regulation in the area of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. It is thought that there is a patient with a heart operation that requires treatment coming up, and that treatment would be available from the Heart Hospital, and that the heart hospital is in Tampere, so does such a patient have the opportunity to receive that treatment from the Heart Hospital, or is it considered that now that he is now in Helsinki, Uusimaa, this freedom of choice will no longer work here after this regulation and the patient will have to wait and the loved ones will have to wait and possibly the employer will have to accept and take the sick leave? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u128	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u129	Mr President! As children and young people continue to remain immobile, the risks for the future are high. Exercise is important for the development of skeletal and motor skills in children, for example. In addition, a mobile child becomes more durable and skilled. It also plays an important role in social interaction. A radical decrease in the number of physical activity is very harmful to the growth and development of children and young people. The decrease in physical activity and the lack of social contact through it also have direct effects on mental health, as immobility increases the risk of depression. It is therefore essential that mental health services for children and young people can be implemented on time in this situation too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u130	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u131	Mr President! A similar type of regulation was adopted last spring as a corona operation. It was about the whole country, though. Currently, derogations from the time limits are allowed only in the case of special care and in the HUS region. It is quite clear that the capacity of intensive care must be secured. Last spring, however, we had to prove that the municipalities, as it were, in advance introduced the possibilities provided by this regulation to drive down care without haste, and this has given rise to a care debt in this country which has not been seen before and which we are still paying and will pay for a long time in the future. Children, young people, the disabled and the elderly cannot be left alone to wrestle with their problems. The accumulation of these problems, especially among children and young people, is not just a care debt, but a tragedy affecting their lives. In their hourglass, the quicksand runs at a completely different pace than our parents, their whole self is just forming, and that is why we need to pay special attention to them. In this corona crisis, children and young people have been subjected to an excessive burden. And now that we are living in this three-week period of closure, it has been a real tragedy to see, Mr President, how people from shopping centres and construction sites are still breaking out who do not wear masks and do not take care of hygiene instructions. I would now like to ask the Minister what you think of the fact that, even if we are facing such a serious crisis, there are still people who ignore this disease, the corona crisis, the enormous threats that are absolutely incalculable in terms of health, physical, mental and society as a whole, for a long time to come. What do you think of the fact that there are still people who do not follow the instructions?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u132	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u133	Madam President! First of all, for the sake of clarity, I am in favour of adopting the regulation as defined by the Constitutional Committee, but I would like to make a few comments here: In the morning, after seeing this performance, I contacted the head of the Hospital District of Southwest Finland and asked them what their situation was, how they themselves assessed whether they should be included in this restriction, and the message I received there was that they should not be, as they are not here now. This one's the first. The second point is that this question of the length of queues in special care has, of course, been an issue with which I have been dealing with a great deal because of my previous work. I would like to mention that on my second working day as head of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa on 11 June 2010, I received a EUR 2 million penalty payment on my desk, which Valvira imposed at the end of 2009-2010 that the number of illegal patients, i.e. those waiting for more than six months, was so high that Valvira saw that such a penalty payment could be imposed. Well, in six months we solved that situation, which means that the next Christmas there were no more patients in illegal lines. Mr Kiuru asked me a good question there, and I am sure Mr Kiuru will take it up. In my own experience, I say that, of course, we can always go to other kinds of treatment, i.e. through freedom of choice, but also through the medical districts themselves to find out all the resources. Yes, Helsinki is so responsible that if it is known that there is capacity in Kuopio or Tampere, patients will be sent there by the hospital district. It does not necessarily even have to use this freedom of choice itself. This has always been done. In time, in the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi, we bought 100 surgeries in Kuopio when the waiting lists were long, and this is a natural activity. However, it is now apparently estimated that since HUS has a population of 1.7 million and this corona situation is so difficult, such a decision is now needed in relation to the HUS region, because not all patients who are in illegal lines can be treated elsewhere in Finland, even by buying from private people. At the very last point, I am going to raise the question which concerns me most of all here, and that is that, at the moment, there is an illegal situation in all the medical districts of Finland. I just looked at THL statistics, and what I can list now in a few seconds is 11 percent of the patients in the Hospital District of Lapland are in illegal lines, Central Finland 7.5, HUS 7.3, Vaasa 7.1, Kainuu 6.9, North Savo 6.1, Northern Ostrobothnia 5.9 and Kymenlaakso 5.9.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u134	We have spent almost half an hour, so at this point I will only give Minister Kiuru a three-minute reply to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u135	Mr President! It came so fast that I couldn't even notice for myself that half an hour was already gone. Thank you for an excellent debate. Good views have been expressed here. First of all, many of your points of view are precisely the reason why this implementing regulation does not open up the implementing regulation for all provinces, but rather that the situation in hospital districts is now seen in a very sparing way, an assessment of the absolute necessity. I think that many of you have spoken, particularly Mr Guzenina, that failure to respect the treatment guarantee can no longer lead to excesses. It's absolutely absolute. And that is why, in this situation, with a heavy heart, we have now opened a treatment guarantee specifically for Helsinki and Uusimaa. The unfortunate thing about it is that there is already a medical guarantee debt in the past and that makes it more difficult for other patients to treat them. Therefore, this tool is not such that it is only with this that all patients can be treated in the covid crisis. But if we are to resort to these even more stringent measures, such as giving employers additional powers, it must be absolutely necessary and absolute and only at the latest when this is the case. But we must remember that we cannot just save up for the care of patients, but we will have to look at the whole range of means that are being made at that time in the hospital, and that is now only the case with special care, as you well said here. Completing the treatment guarantee after this is a big day's issue. It has to do with the kind of legislative proposals we can pass. We in the government have assumed that there will be a proposal to improve the treatment guarantee. As I honestly said to you, we, for example — whether it was during the last Question Time, when we were just asking this question — tabled a regulation for the application of a heavy heart in this House, in which the treatment guarantee is being further jeopardised at the same time as it is hoped that it will be improved. But I personally think that the only way to emerge from this crisis is to provide insurance for the future too, that we can get all these people out of the way, but that is a challenge in terms of impact assessment. I think Mr Heinonen made a good speech on these effects, as did Mr Aittakumpu and many of you, Mr Kivisaari and so on, and so on, made a good speech on the impact of this — there are tremendously good speeches here about these effects. Mr Kiuru was already answered by Mr Lindén. Then, in other respects, I think that is the fact that we are now going to look at the development of the disease situation in other regions and, as has been said here, the situation in Southwest Finland, even for Lindén, is indeed epidemiologically challenging. There was already a problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u136	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u137	We will now proceed with the matter that has been initiated earlier in this session, namely item 4. — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u138	Mr President! I'm here now for the podium, although I may not be able to speak for a very long time. After all, the issue here is a regulation which now allows for a little freedom in this so-called care guarantee. Yes, Mr President, the corona epidemic has been testing our country since last spring. Epidemics have very many effects. Different sources describe the effects of the epidemic on health, the functioning of schools and educational institutions, the well-being of students and students, people's loneliness, mental health, the need for child protection, the presence of violence in the neighbourhood and other areas, the finances of municipalities and the survival of entrepreneurs. In health care, the corona epidemic also has implications for making access to care and services more difficult, and a lot of so-called care and service debt has been created. The planned treatments and procedures in health care units have been delayed due to the coronavirus epidemic and waiting times have been prolonged. The fact that patients themselves have prolonged access to studies and treatment and have also cancelled reception times has also led to an accumulation of care debts. The nursing debt has increased significantly in the treatment of many diseases. The interest period has extended, among other things, the lines of surgery for the heart and cancers, as has been reported. According to the estimates of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, for example in oral health care, the total amount of care debt has been raised by approximately 1.3 million visits. And when we know what oral health care means and what is the significance of oral health, we know that this is a very serious matter. There is a connection between oral health and heart disease, for example. Delays in treatment and follow-up visits often lead to disease worsening. Problems with access to dental care alone will affect, for example, cardiovascular diseases, as dental and cardiovascular health have been linked. Oral infections maintain a low degree of inflammation in the body, which also affects, among other things, the formation of arterial disease. Problems with the availability of dental care can also prolong the already stretched lines of surgery. Because surgery often requires that the health of the mouth and teeth has been checked before surgery. According to international experience, there is a risk that the problems that have not been treated as a result of the corona epidemic can cause disease and premature deaths even more than the corona virus. That is why we need to get rid of the maintenance debt quickly. In health centers and hospitals, careful monitoring should be carried out to ensure that queues do not occur. This information must be public, which is not entirely public at the moment. At the moment, not all hospitals or health centres publish these queue information on their websites, for example, even if the law requires it. Citizens must be able to see openly the situation of care queues on the websites of hospitals and health centres, for example, in order to make decisions where to apply. According to the Health Care Act, the patient has the freedom to choose the managing organisation in the public sector. More money and cooperation between public and private actors at both regional and national level is needed to solve the management debt. That's how we can quickly decompose the treatment lines. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about the treatment debt and the treatment guarantee as a whole. Adopt a regulation to: In the area of the Hospital District of Uusimaa, there would be no need to comply with the treatment guarantee periods as strongly as before or as the law now normally requires. There has been a good debate here. Among other things, Mr Lindén spoke about the fact that he had contacted Varsinais-Suomi as to whether such a regulation would be needed there too, and at least at this stage there is no need. And it is quite clear that we must follow different areas, but now I would remind you that we currently have freedom of choice in the public sector, i.e. the patient has the opportunity to go to other areas, other hospitals, other health centres to seek that treatment — so that the care debt does not accumulate too high and that we do not therefore lose lives. I understand this regulation very well. It has certainly been the will of the operators in this area, and I therefore understand very well that this has been done, but has the possibility been assessed before such a regulation is adopted, how can the private sector help in this regard, how can other hospitals help in this regard? I also understand very well that there is pressure from corona treatments in other areas too, but I believe that there would be help, especially for patients who are currently suffering from severe pain and who are waiting for the surgery that is not going to happen. So I call for that impact assessment. First of all, what does this do to the care debt, how will we go towards the normal situation in the future, how to raise up treatments and services? But, above all, I would like to see this finally decided — of course, the regulation has already been adopted — that we should actually be discussing here whether there were alternatives to purchasing these services from other medical districts, sending the patient there, whether the patient who is currently in the queue knows that he has the freedom of choice to go to other hospitals. And then, of course, there is how private services can be used in this situation. We can't afford to lose a single human life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u139	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u140	Madam Chairman! I listened carefully to Mr Risiko's speech. That was an excellent, good speech, and I have no need to pollute against it at all, but rather to say a few thoughts about the same things. In practice, hospital districts operate exactly as Mr Risikko said: when they have queues of more than six months in the case of measures with this six-month limit, they usually contact other medical districts, see if there is capacity there, and then at the expense of this home care district, they are sent to them for treatment. The second option is, of course, this, which Mr Risikko mentioned, that the patient himself has already exercised freedom of choice and is not in line at all for the hospital district that is the actual hospital district of his country. The private sector is being used very much, of course I have a lot of experience of this, but it has been quite amazing that, after all, we have an amazing share of work between the public and private sectors in certain measures. For example, when HUS had a line of eye disease, it first all comes to mind that it is easy to buy money from the private sector because the private sector is so strong in the eyelines, but when it was a line of so-called specific surgeries, moles, or likes of this kind, which are used to repair just for medical reasons moles and other things, that is, it is not about plastic surgery or this sort of surgery, so in fact that capacity was not available in the private sector. After all, cataract surgery is available, and so, for example, this largest hospital district in Finland HUS does in practice that half of 10,000 annual cataract surgery is cut by itself and half by the private sector as a purchasing service. In other words, this procedure is already in practice like this. But with regard to this oral health care, which Mr Risikko was the first to take, I would now say that in this case the municipalities must now take advantage of the private sector, because the municipalities have received relatively good money from the state now generally during this corona crisis. After all, many municipalities turned into surplus in last year's financial statements, although they did not at first appear to be. And with regard to dental care, the situation is such that the private sector in practice is able to do almost everyone, with the exception of perhaps some of the most demanding surgeries or other such, which are, after all, more on the side of special care in oral health care. That's where you really need to be able to handle these things at municipal level. You need money for that, but according to my interpretation, the municipalities have that money now and the government has played its part in it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u141	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u142	Mr President! Just a few more words. When I mentioned, for example, what health care organisations can do and when assessing such a regulation and its impact and whether there had been other alternatives, I come back to the fact that these treatment lines have also been created because patients have not dared to go for that treatment, they may have been afraid of infection. So, just in this context too, what I have said many times is that if you want to go there a little bit, you should call and ask the experts at the nursing home. When it always takes account of this hygiene and all such distances and all that, that is, if there is a place to take care of those distances and prevent the disease, it is not worth noting its own decision not to go to those times. That's what I want to say. Then, of course, I would also like to remind you that you can also be active and find out if it is possible to go somewhere else. And that's why I'm calling for those treatment lines on the website so that you can watch if you have a medical condition, if I can get in there, and then pretend to be there, if you have the chance to treat me. But, of course, I also call for the staff in this sector to inform the patient now in this situation, that you have been in line so long and we cannot help you at the moment, but you have the opportunity to go to other medical districts and give some information about them, because it is, you know, a long time to wait in pain. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u143	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — Minister Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u144	Madam President! The Government's proposal in the referral debate concerns amendments to the Teno Fisheries Agreement Act. These changes will ensure the smooth marketing of permits, improve the fishing opportunities for local children and the exercise of the Sami culture and safeguard the protection of property. In the context of the Teno fisheries agreement between Finland and Norway, it was agreed that the sale of fishing authorisations would be transferred from the Ely Centre to the Teno fishing zone. The fishing area is about to start a marketing assignment this year. The fisheries area is a small organisation with limited access to all the administrative details associated with the sale of Teno fishing permits. The amendment improves the capacity of the fishing area to carry out the task by, for example, specifying some of the questions that previously belonged to the permit vendor directly in the law. The law would provide for the use of separate quotas for holders of fishing quotas resident outside the territory of Teno. The amount of fishing rights authorised for the use of authorisations would be governed by law rather than by the decision-making powers of the licensee. In addition, the group of fishing rights holders entitled to use the authorisation quota would be specified so that the authorisation quota could only be used on the basis of the fishing rights of the out-of-towners. In this way, the use of the licence quota would be consistent with the purpose for which it has been set out in the Teno Agreement, i.e. to safeguard the property protection of property owners residing elsewhere. The regulation of the fisheries sector would also be specified with regard to the responsibilities and supervision of the public administration. At the same time, permits for persons under the age of 18 would be converted free of charge in order to promote children's fishing activities and the Sámi fishing culture in Tenojokilaakso. The aim of this is to support the transmission of the Sámi fishing culture from one generation to the next. Similar changes to children's fishing permits have already been achieved for children from out-of-town areas, following consultations with Norway on the amendments to Teno's fishing rules. Mr President! In addition to this bill now on the table, I would like to take this opportunity to update Parliament on the situation of Teno salmon stocks and the future summer fisheries. Teno salmon stocks have been monitored in a diverse and comprehensive manner for a long time. The current Teno Agreement has reduced fishing pressure in the river as planned, which has created the conditions for the recovery of weak salmon stocks. Recently, however, alarming changes have been observed. On the basis of monitoring, the number of salmon returning from the sea has decreased and Teno salmon stocks are currently in a historically weak state. Last year, the lowest levels of salmon in the monitoring period were observed almost everywhere in the Teno main baths and on the sidelines. Even before Norwegian coastal fishing, the number of salmon returning from the voyage was lower than the spawning stock targets set. That is why we now have a serious debate with Norway and with local fishermen, water owners and entrepreneurs on how to respond to the situation. Viable salmon stocks in Tenojoki are an important part of the Sámi culture in the region and the basis for tourism and leisure fishing. It is obvious that major joint efforts between Finland and Norway are needed to halt the deterioration of Teno salmon stocks. This will inevitably mean restrictions on fishing for the coming summer. Finland considers it essential that measures to promote the recovery of salmon stocks are taken throughout their entire life cycle from river to fjord and sea. That is where we will continue our discussions with Norway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u145	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u146	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Restä, for presenting the matter. Fishing is a popular hobby among young people. Almost everyone has tried it at times, and nearly one in three young people engage in fishing. In connection with fishing, young people learn, among other things, how to handle fish, cook, handle a boat and care for the environment. Young people themselves say that fishing improves patience and accuracy and teaches independence and survival skills. We can therefore say that fishing is an important means of training civic skills and mental and physical fitness and of bringing people closer to nature. President! Currently, regulation does not allow free fishing for persons under the age of 18 living permanently in the Tenojoki valley. Among other things, the government’s proposal addresses this issue. The aim of the proposal is therefore to promote the fishing activity of local children and young people by means of a free fishing permit. This would also contribute to the transmission of the Sámi fishing culture from one generation to the next. According to the Natural Resources Centre, the salmon stocks in the Teno River are weak, as we also heard from Minister Leppa. On the basis of the monitoring carried out in different parts of the river Tenojoki, salmon has risen to Teno and its tributaries exceptionally little, to a significant extent less than ever before during the monitoring history. I certainly hope that the salmon situation will improve over the coming years, for example, because people's plates will not reduce the consumption of fish and good salmon, but this is also the basis for fishing tourism. There are good grounds for fishing authorisation practices. This is also a major industry in the Teno River. The Government's proposal therefore promotes smooth sales of licences and clarifies the use of licence quotas. Nothing but fishing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u147	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u148	Mr President! It is proposed to add Article 12 on a special fishing authorisation quota. a new Article 2 which allows this quota to be used only on the basis of fishing rights owned by an out-of-towner. It may be said that this clarification will safeguard the position of those who own the right to fish in the outermost regions so that the core of the protection of their fishing rights remains intact, as the government's proposal states. However, this clarification is detrimental to the out-of-town population in so far as it has also been possible to purchase licences for a special fishing quota on the basis of the fishing rights granted by local residents for rent. Mr President! I do not know whether the next part of my speech is appropriate in this Chamber, but I would point out that the basic problem with the fisheries issue of the Teno River seems to be the extremely far-reaching objective of the locals to keep the salmon of the Teno River to themselves, and thus effectively to combat tourism, which, as a whole, you would think would be much more important to the population of the region than to catch fish and which would provide the inhabitants of the Teno River with great income opportunities. Tourists are at least more interested in fishing on the Tenojoki than in the salmon of the Teno River, according to my estimation. Now many tourists are not coming because the fishing licence quota for tourists is very small. Tourism revenue is not available, but it is, of course, possible to live on fish alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u149	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u150	Madam President! I will continue here with the speeches made by friends from downtown fishing. Many Finns have found nature, outdoors, nature sports, hunting and fishing again during the corona period. Nature tourism and fishing are on a strong rise. According to Metsähallitus, last year's income from fisheries management fees was clearly higher than in previous years. The recreational fishing of the Teno River is one example of this. Fishing tourism is an important source of income for many locals in Utsjoki, which brings more than EUR 4 million per year to the region. For people living on the river’s shores, the river has provided traditions, recreation, and also for some of the livelihoods for a very long time. Fishing is an important part of the life and history of the Saami of the Teno River. I am pleased that the parliamentary working group in the sparsely populated region has included fishing tourism as one of the areas for development. I hope that it will launch pilots all over Finland. Mr President! The fishing of the Teno River must be sustainable, so that there is enough salmon for future generations. According to the Natural Resources Centre, Teno and its tributaries have had a baffling increase in salmon in recent years, which means that the situation does not look good at all, as we heard the Minister say. There is a need for cooperation between Finland and Norway. We have to look at the whole and further away. The proposed law clarifies the criteria for the use of the authorisation quota and ensures that the quota is allocated to both local and non-local fishermen. In addition, a free fishing permit for under 18-year-olds contributes to the transmission of the Sámi fishing culture from one generation to the next. It is important to improve fishing opportunities for children and young people. Fishing is a good and healthy hobby. A good hobby brings well-being. During the Korona era, leisure opportunities for our children and young people are of paramount importance. Fishing does not require a specific framework and does not necessarily require expensive equipment, but it offers mental resilience to exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u151	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u152	Madam President! Good Minister Leppä! I remember when I was a little boy in the '70s and now my late uncle Pekka Heikkilä went fishing for Teno every year — my first experience of Teno from these days. And still in our cabin drawer is Teno's horror, where he was fishing. I welcome the fact that this agreement has now been reopened and evaluated. This issue of property protection is a good one, the free fishing opportunities for local children is a good one, and I also welcome the fact that today Parliament has decided that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, under the chairmanship of Mr Rinte, will continue to deal with this matter and look at it carefully. I would also like to thank you, Minister Leppä, for going through this reasonably difficult situation on the Teno River very well, with a lack of enthusiasm and honesty in raising those problems. All in all, our migratory fish situation has been challenging. In fact, all of our hiking fish are endangered or with their eyes on them. There are still quite a few of these obstacles in many places. And when you, Minister Leppä, have been very active, like your predecessors, on these fishing roads, I would ask you, when you are sure to make another final statement in this debate, what measures will be taken this year to remove these migratory obstacles and how the situation of migratory fish can be improved in general and how these fishing paths can be built. And surely at some point it would also be interesting to have some clarification when some of these fishes have also become feedback that they have not all been so successful. It is also a good thing to go over this situation. However, they are reasonably expensive. There are different solutions, and it is good to look for those that will produce the best possible result. But let us hope that these Teno horrors and others will still be used in the future and that our hiking fish will be better off.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u153	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u154	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. This is indeed one of the most famous salmon rivers in Finland, and it is good to safeguard the rise of salmon. Of course, I wish the Minister every success in this negotiation with the Norwegians in getting this right. This has also been very important for recreational fishermen and fishing-related entrepreneurs. So in this few years, when these restrictions came and they did not work or, let us say, they were disproportionate to these recreational fishermen, it also contributed to the fact that entrepreneurs left. The message has come from there, so if you could do something about these restrictions, that they are closed for a week and then open again, so that they are not closed and then open and then closed, but that some kind of rhythm would come to the point that these fishermen know how this has been rhythmized, then it certainly would help. Of course, all this variation, which is here, will help local fishermen, and above all these fishermen who visit them, but above all young people. Since fishing, like hunting, wants to be such a sport that young people are not really into it, it would be free of charge, in a way, I speeded up to get into the hobby. Nothing other than that I wish the Norwegians every success in the negotiations on this fish issue. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u155	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u156	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Thanks to Korona, nature values, national parks and hiking have greatly increased their popularity among the citizens, and I believe that this is also a permanent trend. Finland is an extraordinary country in this respect. Fishing is one form of outdoor activity, very good, and this bill has now taken into account, for example, children and young people and the continuation of local fishing activities under the age of 18, and this is important in terms of hunting. We have noticed that the problem is that there will be no landfill permits when young people do not come, that if you do not get involved when you are young, then it will be harder to get excited about it later, or at least less likely. In 2017, when the case was last discussed here and the agreements entered into force, local entrepreneurs were in trouble. The newspapers reported that Teno has been emptied of tourists — this was the headline of Yle’s news, and there were so many other headlines. And now also with the interest rate, tourism is in increasing difficulties. As you mentioned earlier, salmon fish are in poor condition. So three years ago it was said that the farm was bad when the rivers were emptied of the tourists; now, apparently, the river begins to empty out of the salmon. I ask you, Minister, how do you see the situation of local entrepreneurs? Have they survived the problems of 2017? And how do you see that this government proposal under discussion affects the operating conditions of local entrepreneurs? It also has a lot of such cultural history, fishing related to the continuation of the culture involved. I know that many entrepreneurs have been asked to make statements, but it is also good to hear this point directly from the Minister, how you see it, and that is not a trivial matter at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u157	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u158	Mr President! There are a lot of beneficiaries who want to have a certain influence on the way in which this law is being dealt with and put to an end, but the way I see it is that, if we consider the work of the Constitutional Committee, which is not worth taking a stand on now, there are two groups of fishermen whose fundamental rights are guaranteed by the Constitution. They are the Sámi as an indigenous people, the development and pursuit of culture, and then there is the protection of property for property owners from out-of-town areas, and the starting point in the Constitution is, I believe, to seek to safeguard the rights of both. It must be the priority when these decisions are made. As far as the problems of tourism entrepreneurs are concerned, this law will not improve them, of course, because booking permits is based on the so-called online competition, on who can book fast, and this online competition will perhaps become one of these things, which we in the committee will probably consider in a constructive way. Now, in this government proposal, there are more of these possible permits that people are able to book online, and, for example, when a property owner who may have ten licenses goes online three days late when he has been travelling, he does not get a permit or fish all summer. In my opinion, this is a constitutional problem because it is at the heart of property protection. I think that we need to think about these in both the Constitutional Committee and the Committee, but the main problem is that tourism entrepreneurs cannot reserve those days for tourists in the winter when they will go when no one knows who will be allowed and what day if they can. And, of course, more should have taken this whole system in the direction of increasing the number of days of calm, as is likely now to have to be increased with Norway in negotiations that also ban online fishing at sea, in the fjord and in the river. That would have been better, and then, of course, fishing quotas, that is, how much fish can be taken. We would have achieved the same goal and goals by such means, but the tourist entrepreneurs would still have been doing well, because they could have come up with some other program for the calm days then, i.e. the biggest sufferer here certainly has been these travel entrepreneurs. In fact, this government proposal contains a number of details which I do not think it is appropriate to go through in detail in this House, but that is why we have to do some hard work in committee — and, of course, the Constitutional Committee gives an opinion — but I hope that the Minister will have a constructive attitude that, if we have to make some changes to the articles or others, we will have to do it in good agreement. Furthermore, this government proposal unfortunately leaves a certain margin of interpretation. Mr President! Finally, I believe that in this last Act on the Enforcement of Diseases adopted by Parliament, the same thing happened as in Article 16 of the Act on Disease Control, that Parliament did lay down a sensible and correct law, but unfortunately someone interpreted it in such a way that this good law was not put into practice and, as a result, Finland committed a breach of the treaty,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u159	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u160	Mr President! This issue of the Teno fisheries agreement, as in the case of many fisheries-related issues in general, is a complex issue of fundamental rights, but, above all, it is of course a question of protecting endangered fish stocks. That is why it is very difficult in many of these negotiations to implement all these aspects and from the point of view of each party in a fair way. That is where we met, among other things, last week, the Sámi, who are concerned about their own rights to fish in Teno. On the other hand, tourism entrepreneurs, locals are concerned about their own rights and landowners, out-of-towners about their own rights and so on. There is a lot of good in this proposal, Minister, but I am sure there will still be some concern as to whether the situation is sufficient to allow fish stocks to recover and, as it were, to balance not only with fundamental rights but also with sustainable fishing. Mr President! Perhaps it is my wish, since I am sure we will also be discussing the matter in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to see whether we can look a little further in these matters and perhaps suffer a little short-term for the sake that, in the future, we will also have sustainable salmon stocks on the Tenojoki River.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u161	Then we'll start to have the time reserved for this. And now, if the Minister wishes, he could finally speak. If you're from the scene, three minutes and five minutes from the toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u162	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for your good comments, suggestions, speeches. Firstly, this balance between the different rights, the possibilities is a very difficult one — we all know that, as many colleagues have said here. It's good to weigh this. And it is important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs goes through this from this point of view too, including from the point of view of fundamental rights, that this balance is as good as possible. Of course, everything is based on the fact that we are able to improve the stock of the salmon in the Teno River, their access to the river and thus their reproduction. It's all a and o. That is why the negotiations with Norway, which I have also had with a Norwegian colleague myself, are very important, and we both have the same concern about the salmon stock in the Teno River, which I can say quite frankly. These two basic things are on top of everything. Well, then, President, a few questions came up: They're taking out hike barriers. There was more funding in the last period than ever before, and this funding was further increased for this period. In other words, this work is constantly being carried out in different parts of Finland. Larger and smaller projects, larger and smaller watercourses open to migratory fish. That's a job that's going on all the time. And so is the work of developing the fish roads at the same time. And then there's the business situation: Of course it's very awkward there. That is a fact to be admitted. And that too, of course, stems from the fact that salmon stocks are weak. Of course, this does not ban fishing, it is precisely the growth of salmon stocks that we want to emphasise — there are many other fish species there, and this will of course help. Several of you also asked this question and referred to this. Fortunately, there are other fish species with a very good stock and they can make them, but salmon is salmon. Salmon is completely different from other fish. That's just the way it is. But there are other fish species there, fortunately. Well, then there's the problem with online licenses. One cannot belittle it either, of course this is the case: how can we find a system that is fair in all respects? It's very difficult to find. But when the committees go through this, of course, if there are ways in which this can be done in a way that somehow improves these fundamentals, then I will be happy to have a discussion with the committees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u163	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u164	Now we will continue with item 5, which was previously suspended in this sitting, where the debate will continue. — Mr Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u165	Madam President! According to the calculations of the Natural Resources Centre, the salmon stock in Tenojoki is at a low level, and the signs for 2021 are poor. This is very bad news. However, the most important change in this law, which we are now doing, is probably that the transfer of the right to sell fishing authorisations is about to enter the fishing zone, and others are quite technical at this stage. However, a major change is also this exemption from the licence fee for local fishing permits under the age of 18, which has been greeted with joy in this Chamber, and that is what I am doing. Fishing on the Teno River is very strongly linked to the rights of the Sami people. Finland and Norway have received comments at international arenas on the negative impact of the Teno Fisheries Agreement on the rights of the Sámi. Finland has also received comments that our legislation does not recognise the livelihoods of the Sami people as the livelihoods of the indigenous people, which makes the position of the Sami people very vulnerable. Teno's fishing practices are an example of this. There is still a long way to go after this law to enforce the rights of the Sami people, and they must always be promoted in these contexts. Unfortunately, this law does not significantly improve the rights of the Sami people, but it does not weaken them either. The rights of the Sámi should always be the starting point of Tenojoki legislation. In addition to this and in addition, it is absolutely essential that the recovery of salmon stocks in the river Tenojoki should not be jeopardised. I would therefore like to thank Minister Leppää, who has already left, for this strong statement in his speech on behalf of the recovery of the stock: thank you for that. It should be noted that when we talk about this fisheries in the Teno River and we know what the pressure is there, how much has been said here in this Chamber on behalf of leisure fishermen and the potential of fishing tourism, it must also be borne in mind that we Finns have themselves destroyed our migratory fish stocks of all our big ones. If we were to work genuinely and ambitiously to restore hiking fish to the Kemi and Oulu River, for example, we could also increase leisure fishing in these places, thereby reducing the pressure on fishing in the Teno River. We could get more fish on the table, as has been said here, and we could make this wholesome good hobby possible for more and more. But, of course, at the heart of everything is the preservation of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u166	Congressman Risikko is gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u167	Mr President! We currently have a government proposal here to the Parliament for a law amending the law on the transposition and application of the provisions of the agreement on fishing in the waters of the Teno River with Norway. I am very pleased that there is also a chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also members of the committee listening to what I am about to say, and I am very pleased that this goes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Of course, I am not taking a position here on what is the constitutional limit and what should happen there, but I will say a few points here that should at least be taken into account. Firstly, this mandate, Article 12, contains one point, Mr Chairman of the committee and members of the committee, which I hope you will pay attention to. The second theme I would like to raise is the coefficient of the special licence quota in Article 12. This bill of amendment does not respect the principle that Minister Leppä expressed in Parliament when he presented his committee's report, namely the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry 2/2017 in spring 2017. He said this, or the report says this: ‘It is possible to obtain an authorisation within the quota limits,that a single licence quota would be owned by the minimum. “ This bill now waters down this guarantee that was once made. One of my themes is the transfer of special permits to tourist fishermen. The question is why, in the explanatory memorandum to Article 12 of the draft Act, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry considers that the seller of an authorisation could transfer special permits for the protection of property of property owners in out-of-town areas for sale to tourist fishermen. Professor Kaarlo Tuori has given an expert opinion on this at the time, and in his statement he says in full terms: “In accordance with Finnish law, they have never been included in the traveler’s licence quota,and they would not be able to return. “ Well, what could be the argument that Professor Tuor’s view can now be ignored? I am sure it will be good to hear that in the committee there. The question which I would also draw attention to here is the limit value for a special permit and the first specific permit. Why has the government's proposal remained to consider 0.5 as the threshold for the first special permit? This is a detailed matter, but so that you will know when you discuss it. I had a few others here. I'm just raising the impact assessment, the lack of impact assessment. Has the impact assessment been carried out comprehensively enough to enable the work of the committees? The government proposal should include an assessment of the impact of legislation so that the legislator knows what is at stake. For example, to which waters is the law being passed, i.e. the ownership of the waters in relation to the private and the state? How many out-of-town fishing right holders are there? What is the amount of their property rights compared to local and state ownership? What, according to the proposal, is their practical fishing rights and so on? The content of fishing rights compared to local property owners? That's the kind of question I'm missing from that impact assessment. And then, of course, the relationship with the Constitution: has the government's proposal taken sufficient account of fundamental rights? In fact, the Government’s proposal states: ‘The purpose of the amendment is not to infringe the right of the owner to the normal, reasonable and rational use of his or her assets, Of course, I will not take a position on whether this is the case or not, but I would like to see these raised. One theme is also this list of shareholders, which is there. And then one more theme is the responsibility of the Ely Centres. In the draft law 30/2021 the right of the Ely Centre to control the fishing area has been recorded. The question is why, in accordance with the Fisheries Act, the responsibility for monitoring the Ely Centres has not been included in the bill. So why is this a right, but the Fishing Act has a responsibility and a duty? These are the things I am picking up here, and that is not all: there are still a few things there. But just as I said, it is very good that we have the chairman of the Constitutional Committee here to listen. I know that these will then come before you there, and I hope that this will be taken seriously, even though there is a lot of detail. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u168	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u169	Mr President! Mr President of the Constitutional Committee! — This is what I now have to say because, in my opinion, this bill deals specifically with fundamental rights, and it is my opinion that it is rather difficult, in other words, that these are by no means unambiguous. First of all, I would like to describe the situation as to why this bill here — in part — is: after all, Finland has signed a state agreement with Norway, and the fisheries code and the Teno Enforcement Act are an integral part of that agreement. When agreements are concluded between two countries, the starting point is that countries themselves, within the framework of their own legal system, ensure that the agreement is respected and not violated. Why is this here, then, quite strongly associated with this particular motion raised by Mr Risiko, Article 12 of the Teno Act on Enforcement. The former law, which is currently in force, clearly states in Article 12: ‘The authority responsible for the sale of an authorisation shall determine, on the basis of the list of shareholders, the coefficient according to which the authorisation is determined. “ And without accusing anyone, I have to say that even today this authority responsible for selling the licence has not determined this coefficient, and that is why the problem has just come to the conclusion that the day-to-day rental was started, in which case the state monopoly on the sale of the licence, which was granted to the State on the basis of a state agreement, was actually ignored. If my own opinion is correct, then when we conclude a state agreement that includes a law of enforcement, it will act as a priority and the fishing law will be subordinate to it. And now such a phenomenon occurred when this Article 12 of the Act on Enforcement gave out-of-town property owners, which I believe there are more than a thousand in Tenojoki Valley, no small group, the right to fish, because the property register has the right to form the core of property protection. Now that this rental activity was allowed, then, in fact, this happened that by renting the owner’s rights increased. How is it possible in Finnish case law that the rights of the owner are increased by renting? This was precisely because of Article 12 of the Act on Enforcement. Non-compliance. Now it is here in a different form, in the form that has been desired when it has not been complied with, and this is where this mess has begun, and Norway reclates Finland. The Norwegians were absolutely right, in my opinion. Now we are in this situation, and this led to the fact that these property owners, whose property was at the very heart of their property protection, had been given this right to fish in the real estate register — and it had to be established that everyone was allowed to do so — now that they went online through the competition, found that they were not allowed to do so when someone else had reserved it, and then there, with online declarations and many others, someone's property was sold on the beach stones, so that you could buy a tourist license, an almond permit, that you could fish for 24 hours. This is a fact of what has happened. I was very sorry. In 2019, I asked in writing when the government would stop selling illegal licenses in Teno. There's nothing I can do as a congressman. The administration will do what it does, but this has to be said, Mr President. It seems that it is not enough for Parliament to make sensible laws and spend months on them when someone does not follow them and interprets them differently what Parliament has written directly here. But what this government proposal is now doing, so this is the phenomenon that when a factor of six, which is arbitrary, is put here in the law, it is not based on a figure that the Land Survey had to define, which is easily defined, because in reality, even though the state sells permits and has taken a monopoly on itself, this ownership of fishing rights in the Tenojoki River and the Tenojoki Valley is primarily privately owned. The State is a small owner, but this is old-fashioned because this legal basis is not what it looks like because it has been misinterpreted as the State's share and the amount of ownership. So this is what is happening here, which should now be wondering whether this can be possible, that if a person does not get online to reserve his own property, but someone else does, he will be left without it. This, in my view, constitutes a problem at the heart of this protection of property. Then there are other problems here that if it is interpreted — as it should be interpreted — that it is a property entered in the property register of the property owner, can the State, without asking this owner, return that property to any sale if this person wants to protect the territory of Teno himself, when, of course, under Article 20 of the Constitution, environmental responsibility is shared by everyone. Therefore, this constitutes such legal problems. It is another matter of how someone feels about whether these rights should be abolished altogether. They're opinions, but this is legal. And that is why, in my view, there has also been a very negative thing going on here, that there have been groups of people fighting against each other. They talk about cottage people, even though the cottage has nothing to do with rights on the property, it doesn't matter whether it is there or not, and it has become such a false philosophy, and tourists suffer from it and tourists suffer from it. This is truly regrettable, and that is why I am speaking here that these should actually be dealt with in such a way that it is a legal basis and not someone's opinion, no matter how much it is called for — in such a way things cannot be resolved. Mr President! In my opinion, this completely confused the deck when we started to compete with this Internet because it is unfair to the elderly who own and who really can't handle it, because it's up to the seconds to get it. That's why I prefer the system to the one before, where anyone could go, enjoy Lapland's nature and fish, buy a permit. Of course, this overfishing is what we must now negotiate with Norway, that we will then be able to get both at sea, at the fjords and at which we will be able to reduce and reduce fishing from all groups, but what I think should have done is that this mess would not exist is that we would have simply defined that everyone could buy it, go enjoy Lapland and that tourism entrepreneurs would have been allowed to keep their livelihoods, so that more days of calm would have been put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u170	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u171	Madam President! There have been a lot of good speeches here, and when you listen to these speeches, everyone understands that this is a very complex issue. We must take account of the rights of the owners of the fishing grounds, which Mr Eestilä spoke about here, but also of other things in general, account must be taken of local rights, especially the rights of the Sámi, but, above all, account must be taken of the rights of this salmon, so that the salmon there in Teno can be preserved, so that we will have something in the future to trouble our brain glands. And here's the thing: There are a lot of different things that have been said here, but one thing has been a little less, and that is the root causes, the root causes from the Norwegian side. It's pretty unfair if those salmon fish are already being fished out there in the fjord and not even all the fishing goes in the books and the decks. We have also raised this issue to Minister Lepänen when he is conducting those negotiations on the Norwegian side that this must not happen in the future. And I also hope, for example, that we will support WWF in this way that, when a Norwegian bag salmon is easily mixed with this genuine and original salmon, it will then bring with it various fish diseases. WWF should be on the side of domestic fish. Every time you eat it, environmental issues and the sustainability of fish stocks have been taken into account. Here's what I wanted to say. This will be discussed in depth in the committee there. And here, too, the Minister has already given us such a good impression that if we get this practical system, for example, the problem of buying permits, something that has been made easier, it can also be a relief for these difficult issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u172	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Leppä, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u173	Madam President! Let's get back to the fish business. The Government proposes to amend the definition of a commercial fisherman in the Fisheries Act in order to avoid the undesirable effects on commercial fishing and on the availability of domestic fish resulting from the amendment of the VAT Act, which entered into force at the turn of the year. In other words, the government wants to ensure that domestic fish will continue to be put on the plate and increasingly. Commercial fishermen are divided into two groups in the Fisheries Act: the first is full-time fishermen and the second is secondary. The amendment of the VAT Act, which entered into force at the end of the year, raised the turnover requirement of the first group of fishermen from EUR 10000 to EUR 15000, since the first group of fishermen, according to the current provisions of the Fisheries Act, includes those whose fishing income exceeds the tax liability limits laid down in the VAT Act. This amendment to the VAT law has had a number of negative effects on commercial fisheries and is therefore now being corrected. Without repair, it will be more difficult for new fishermen to become the main fishermen of the first group. Moreover, many of those who previously belonged to the first group are now, with the change, among the fishermen of the second group. We therefore want to remedy the unacceptable situation for fishermen in which fishermen who have fallen into another group are losing rights to certain subsidies or, in certain cases, would even have to pay back the aid granted. As a whole, the change in the VAT threshold has indirectly reduced the number of full-time commercial fishermen and also threatens to reduce the supply of domestic fish, which is totally contrary to the objectives of the Government Programme. Of course, this cannot be the case. For this reason, and in order to avoid these undesirable effects, the Government has put forward a proposal to change the definition of a commercial fisherman so that fishermen in the first group would include those with a turnover of at least EUR 10000. In future, therefore, the grouping of commercial fishermen would no longer be linked to the VAT liability limit. This is the change that is being proposed here. In addition, the proposal provides that support under the EMFF could be granted in the future not only for development projects but also for investment projects as an advance. This will help companies to adapt to the challenges posed by the corona pandemic. The laws are due to enter into force on 1.5. this year. However, the laws would apply to registration and aid applications submitted at the beginning of this year, i.e. 1 January or after. This would ensure that the amendment to the VAT Act would have as little negative impact as possible on fishermen. In other words, during this year this would be corrected retroactively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u174	Then Mr Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u175	Värderade Talman! Det är är en rätt technical k korrigering som vi behandlar, men det är en valdigt viktig sådan för att vi aven i fortsättningen ska kunna trygga consumtionen av inhemsk fisk. Om vi alla ater mera inhemsk fisk skapar detta också fler arbetstillfällen och det ger en battre utkomst för fiskarna. Det förbättrar Människors älsa och minskar matens klimatpåverkan och milöavtryck. Målet om att främja consumtionen av inhemsk fisk är någonting som regeringen även förbundit sig till i regeringsprogrammet, men för att vi ska kunna konsumera inhemsk fisk behövs det inhemska yrkesfiskare. Tyvärr har vi redan en tid sett en nedåtgående trend i antlet yrkesfiskare i Finland. Vi behöver åtgärder som främjar yrket och minskar på byråkratiska Hinder. Det ox lagförslaget är en sådan åtgärd som främjar yrkesfiskarnas situation. Utan de tauri åtgärderna som regeringen nu föreslår skulle det vara svårare för nya och också nuvarande kommersiella Fiskare att komma in i grupp I eller stanna kvar där, vilket indekt skulle minska utbudet av inhemsk fisk. Vi ska inte göra det svårare att utöva kommentiellt fiske, utan vi ska i ställett möjliggöra det.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u176	Irade the Talman! Allt vi kan göra ska göras för att öka andelen inhemsk fisk på våra matbord. Regeringens proposition om ändringar i lagen om fiske kans som en viktig förbättring av definitionerna av yrkesfiskare i classic I. Utan denna ändring skulle momsskyldhetens höjning ha betett en drastic minskning av yrkesfiskare som hör till classic I. Statunen är, som det har framkommit bull, valdigt viktig inom fisket, för den ger fiskarna rätt till olika mekanismer som är till för att söda yrkesgrupen. Denna regeringsproposition bidror till att trygga verksamhetsförutsättningarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u177	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a good introduction and for bringing good legislation here to Parliament. It is important that the link to the VAT threshold should be removed because professional fishermen can remain in the first category between the amount of EUR 10000 and EUR 15000 and thus receive investment aid from the Maritime and Fisheries Fund and other good benefits, good things and benefits linked to professional fishing. After all, it was excellent that the change in the VAT threshold came, but without this change the fishermen would have suffered, and that certainly cannot be our objective. On the contrary, we have a programme to promote domestic fish, and we want a strong increase in the fishing, farming and consumption of domestic fish, and this legislation will contribute to this. I know my committee, and I promise it, because I know that these VAT decisions will come in the spring. Of course, it is good that there is also the retroactivity that can be taken into account, but whenever there are VAT decisions, it is clear that in April—May these changes will start to take place and can then be kept in a more favourable category. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u178	Congressman Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u179	Madam President! This is a technical amendment to the Fisheries Act, but when time is set aside for speeches, it is an excellent opportunity to ask about an important issue: We often worry about more Finnish fish being eaten, but this debate often culminates more in so-called high-value fish. I know that it has been close to Minister Leppa's heart to work both in Parliament and as a minister to find a market for so-called less-valued fish, which is even called junk fish. You have worked hard to ensure that water management measures, as well as new forms of fishing entrepreneurship and new products, can be found by consumers, and progress has been made. But I would still like to ask you: what is going on here, and what more could be done to make us eat less tuna and eat more, for example? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u183	Minister Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-18-ps-24.u184	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your excellent contributions. Indeed, we have two important fisheries issues, and the common concern is that we have a deficit of almost EUR 300 million in terms of the so-called fish balance in euros. We have a lot of work to do here. In a country such as this, where there are many clean waters, fish stocks are in a large part underfished, which means that we have a lot of work to do in this regard. That is why, among other things, this programme for the promotion of domestic fish has been put in place and, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, has said, EUR 1 million has been put into this development and promotion of less valuable fish products. It has a lot of potential for us, and I see that it replaces imported fish. It is important to note that, and this is the work we are doing strongly. Similarly, that domestic fish promotion program wants to make domestic fish familiar in many ways. Also in public food, increasing domestic fish: I strongly encourage all public purchasers to move more and more to domestic fish, and I know that such decisions have been taken. Here's a good municipal tip for all of you who are nominated for municipal elections, for this part. Then, President-in-Office, on this very subject, I have just seen that, when a good decision has been taken to raise the general threshold for VAT, this shows how complex the legislative work is when, elsewhere, this work leads to a weakening of the potential of a component. That is why such remedies are necessary, as is now being proposed here, and as promised by the chairman of the committee, so quickly will be dealt with. I also hope that this will be put into effect and that fishermen will have the assurance that there will be no interveners, and when this is in force from the beginning of the year, good work will be done. — Thank you very much.
