ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Anna-Kaisa Ikonen, in a letter addressed to Parliament on 27 February 2021, has asked for exemption from the post of representative since 8 September 2021 after being elected mayor of the City of Tampere. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In a letter addressed to Parliament on 1 September 2021, Juhana Vartiainen has requested exemption from the post of representative since 8 September 2021 after being elected mayor of the City of Helsinki. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u3	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. In a letter addressed to Parliament on 2 September 2021, Paavo Arhinmäki has requested exemption from the post of representative since 9 September 2021 after being elected deputy mayor of the City of Helsinki. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u4	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u5	Mr President! On Sunday, the Government submitted a proposal to the Parliament to amend Section 58d of the Act on Disease Control. The proposal states that the Act on communicable diseases would be temporarily amended until the end of the year on the conditions for the use of premises intended for customers and participants in order to prevent the spread of the corona virus epidemic. The exact definition of close contact and the incidence rate as a criterion for application would be deleted. The existing law still has a precise definition of close contact. According to it, close contact is intended for people to stay indoors at a distance of less than two metres from each other for more than 15 minutes or physical contact with each other. This is now being deleted in this proposal. Mr President! The application of the existing provision has led to a strict legal definition that, within the limits of their discretion, the authorities have not been able to take into account, in their decisions, the various options for determining the safe use of the premises. The categorical definition has not allowed for a situation-specific definition of close contact, but has forced the authorities to remain within the legal definition of close contact, and the law has not allowed for a distance of less than two metres. Although there has been no change in the method of transmission of the corona virus since the definition of that two-metre close contact, the increase in vaccine coverage has led to a change in the susceptibility of the population to infections and serious forms of disease, as well as the burden of infection on the carrying capacity of social and health care. In the future, close contact would mean, in addition to physical contact, only a very close stay next to each other and a side on the side. On the other hand, the amendment to the Act on communicable diseases before us does not mean, on the other hand, that the authorities are not entitled and obliged to take decisions to prevent the spread of the covid-19 epidemic if the situation so requires. The municipal body responsible for the control of communicable diseases or the Regional State Administrative Agency may — and of course it should — take decisions in its territory on the conditions for the use of farms if such decisions are required by the worsening epidemic situation and the legal conditions for decision-making are met. However, the proposed amendments will make the content of the decisions more flexible and will now take account of this current vaccination situation. Mr President! The criterion of incidence would also be deleted. In the future, the application would be based on significant disease clusters in the municipality or hospital district, whose transmission chains could not be reliably traced and which, according to expert judgement, would pose a significant risk for the widespread spread of new infections in the region. As the vaccine coverage of the population increases, the proportion of mild-symptomised and asymptomatic infections increases, thus improving the overall situation. On the other hand, covid-19 clusters can continue to emerge even after the vaccine coverage has increased, and that too is something we have to prepare for. The proposed change to the application criterion would enable a more flexible decision-making mechanism to adapt to the current epidemic situation. This change would make it more possible to take account of the regional epidemic situation and the vaccination coverage of the region as part of the decision-making process, thus also allowing a proportionate decision based on a real need only. In this case, the need for a decision could be assessed not only by the incidence of the disease but also by other epidemiological factors such as the vaccination coverage of the area. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u6	At this stage, we will start the debate so that we can get some momentum and momentum into this debate, so I would ask those representatives who wish to use the debate at this stage to stand up and press the V button on the floor. — And the debate will be launched by Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u7	Madam President! The Government's proposal to amend the Act on communicable diseases is welcome, but the solution is not to repeal and only to modify Article 58d It's a huge disappointment. Several experts have estimated that this government proposal will only lead to a more confused situation. This article has caused unacceptable damage and is no longer justified in the current epidemic situation. The article should be repealed, as the Coalition Party has proposed in its bill. We want culture and events back. The industry needs certainty. Indeed, cultural professionals must be allowed to work safely. There is no basis for this unequal treatment. Why, Minister Kiuru, did you not overturn this section? Article 58c would have made it possible, then, to take the measures required for health safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u8	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u9	Madam President! We too are delighted to welcome this change, but unfortunately I do not believe it will be a summer. In the worst case scenario, the government is, as it were, washing its hands on these decisions and simply moving to regional levels. Without fail, nothing good will come of it. In general, I wonder how this interest rate policy is still so reactive. The whole summer has been a long time, the direction has been quite clear for several weeks. Vaccination is increasing, severe cases of disease are decreasing. Then you have to have the ability to make decisions in the other direction. We know that there are already countries in our neighbouring countries where in practice there are no restrictions in force or, at least, they are not visible to people in everyday life. We want changes in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u10	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u11	Madam President! Last night at the A-Studio Mr Markku Mäkijärvi, Director General of HUS, and Ms Liisa-Maria Voipio-Pulkki, Head of Strategy at STM, discussed this situation, and I think that the message of experts with excellent experience was that this change that we are making in this strategy must now be made in a controlled, moderate and step-by-step manner. What happened during the summer? In the early summer, we had an incidence rate of 26, when we were still together in June. It went off to level 181. Since then, it's stabilized. The hospital load was 108 patients on 17 August, of whom 30 were active. A year ago, when no vaccine had been administered, there were 8 patients in hospitals. Delta virus is the new challenge here. The second is, of course, that we still have too many unvaccinated people. What is needed is precisely what the government is doing here:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u12	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u13	Mr President! With great joy, I welcome this government proposal, which will bring about a step towards Finland's opening-up and also a sensible provision that the event and culture sector, which has been in great distress, will be able to function better. At the same time, I would also like the government to look at other provisions on a fast schedule which, in my opinion, have also led to crazy situations, such as the possibility of having 50 people in a restaurant, but if someone says a poem, it will become a cultural event and become an illegal and forbidden event. Such things do not come to people’s senses, and that is understandable. We now also need the courage — and I think it is quite quick to move on to and away from these restrictions when the vaccine coverage has increased. This is the kind of courage I now wish the country's government as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u15	Congressman Forsgrén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u16	Madam President! I would also like, for my part, to thank you for this important government proposal. I agree that the two-metre safety distance should be abandoned, and at the moment the situation is such that it can also be done safely. For my part, I would also like to raise the question that the cultural and event sector is currently in a rather difficult situation. Although this step is the right one, we must also look at other measures that will enable us to support this important area. I would like to join in the good speech by Mr Salmon in the sense that we know that the Act on communicable diseases as a whole is in need of reform. But I don't know if it's through individual legal provisions. After this crisis, let us see how the whole package should be reviewed next time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u17	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u19	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u20	Mr President, värderade talman! Regeringens förslag är synnerligen och definitivt ett steg i rätt riktning. Avskaffandet av regeln för två meters säkerhetsavstånd är någonting vi väntat på länge. Redan då dessa lagar stiftades ansåg jag dem vaa för strikta och orättvisa eftersom restrictionnerna inte behandlade samhällets olika aktörer Jämlikt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u21	Madam President! This proposal is in order, in part perhaps it would have been a little earlier. This abolition of the incidence rate criterion is really necessary now, too, because it no longer describes the situation that we have as an epidemic effect on health care, so it is precisely this burden of hospitalisation and intensive care that should now be monitored more. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that vaccination coverage in Finland is still just under half the population for full vaccinations and we are clearly lagging behind many European countries in this respect. I hope that Minister Kiuru will comment on why we have been worse off in this regard than in many other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u22	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u23	Mr President! As it may be, this part-session will also begin with the examination of the Act on communicable diseases.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u24	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u25	Madam President! I could use more corporate impact assessments. Now if you also consider these regional differences and how they will increase in this, and whether anyone will soon get anything clear about them, then things like this need to be invested. And these differences in interpretation and how to interpret these things: It has been quite unclear all along that information. No one really knows where to do and what to do and what not to do. More attention needs to be paid to the importance of information. And indeed, these business impact assessments have a lot to do with where the euro is moving and how the companies are doing. I hope that these issues will be taken seriously and taken seriously. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u26	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u27	Madam President! Last May, when the Act on communicable diseases was being discussed in Parliament, the problems of the Act on communicable diseases were clearly known and the assembly also raised these issues in its own protests — including the treatment of events and culture — but Parliament opposed all these motions for a convention. Now we have this Article 58d. Here. That is necessary, but it would be more sensible now to cancel the whole proposal, as the draft law does, because this article is simply not needed. 58c already enough to describe those definitions. This situation, which allows the open interpretation of it, only adds to the confusion. And today, when I went through this corona strategy, which the government announced yesterday, it does seem very confusing. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u28	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u29	Mr President! Representative Purra criticised the government for acting reactively in this corona situation. I disagree with Mr Purra. It is excellent that the government is acting in a reactive way, reacting to this corona disease and its serious phenomena. In this respect, government action has been constantly considered and we have managed to cope better with this corona epidemic, both economically and, above all, from the point of view of health care, than the European countries, the analogue countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u32	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u33	Madam President! It is good that the Act on communicable diseases is addressed and adapted to fit it at the time. What I think is more important is that now that we are slowly breaking free from the consequences of the corona and we are beginning to live with it, there is no longer any time after the corona. This corona stays here in some way, in some form. We do not yet know why it is changing, but it is certain that it will be spinning in different directions on this earth and getting new versions — hopefully less than the previous ones. The vaccine coverage is improved, and when there seems to be a variety of opinions about the vaccines, it is quite strange, I find it wonderful that the vaccines are opposed. Take a look at the history of vaccines, even the polio vaccine: if it hadn't been invented, it would be terrible. Finally, Mr President, there is one thing: this bill, too, whatever it is — if we as individuals, as people, do not shoulder the responsibility ourselves, then it all goes wrong in some way. Let us take responsibility for ourselves and, at the same time, for our fellow humans.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u34	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u35	Mr President! I personally thank you for this proposal. It is justified to update the Act on communicable diseases and to remove precise definitions of close contact in order to make it more up-to-date. At the same time, it is important to ensure that this law actually carries out its purpose and that the various authorities in this country understand it in the same way and play the same game in accordance with the strategy that the government has now outlined. In the end, the vaccination coverage is essential. I personally recommend everyone to get those spikes up their sleeves and take responsibility in that regard. And now, for a year and a half now that these various restrictions have been used quite rightly, perhaps I have a little concern about how to get used to them, and I would remind you that there is no need for justification for dismantling them. The maintenance of restrictions always requires justification.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u36	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u37	Mr President! I myself am grateful for this bill, and at the same time I believe that this could have come sooner. There was quite a wide-ranging debate here last spring across party boundaries about the need to open up the cultural and event sector in a health-safe manner, and we already know the disadvantage that this sector has experienced because of these heterogeneous restrictive measures. What I see as very important now is that our expert committees carefully look at this bill and comment on it and also consider the various options. The fact is, however, that the cultural and artistic fields have suffered huge losses because of these unparalleled restrictions, and there is no reason to continue with this situation in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u38	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u39	Madam President! Last week Prime Minister Marin accused Parliament of delaying the amendment of Article 58d. He said that it would be delayed due to Parliament's summer break, because the autumn session will not begin until next week — today. After all, this is a confusing handwash from Marin, the Prime Minister and his government. Parliament always has 365 days a year to come to decisions, and Minister Haavisto used this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u40	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u41	Mr President! Mr Harjanne said very well that maintaining restrictions always requires specific criteria, and they do not require them to be dismantled. And if this timetable has perhaps been criticised for why it comes now, then I think there is a place for that criticism too. Indeed, a significant part of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health would have wanted to intervene in this section as early as June.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u44	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u45	Thank you, Mr President. That is where the ranks of the SDP became reproached by our chairman, Mr Purra, when he said that the government was on a slightly reactive side more than a planned one. For example, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health now confirmed this position and listen to Mr Loh. Now it seems to me that the Social Democrats are talking about ‘governing’, ‘really’, which has heard ‘slowen’. Then again, when you listen to what the city centre has to say, you wish for courage. Even now, from this proposal, I would like you, a good government, to be united in these matters, because we need a society open. It's obvious. It seems that you don't even know what your Corona-Exit plan is. I am very much in favour of this proposal by Mr Salmon, and if we could leave it. Are you ready to change your motion, Minister Kiuru?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u46	Congressman Rantanen Piritta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Surely no one knows what the right way to do this is when we have not dealt with a pandemic like this before, but perhaps we all learn how to live with it. We are certainly all very happy that we can finally be able to lift these restrictions. However, we cannot deny that various hygiene and restriction measures have played a central role in the fight against corona pandemic, and as Finland we have done an excellent job with this. It is obvious that these restrictions have had disadvantages. The problems of human well-being and mental health have certainly been highlighted and the event and cultural sector has experienced extremely difficult situations. It is clear that such unclear and unjust situations have arisen, but our law has never been created for such a pandemic. The number of confirmed infections remains high and we must remain vigilant. It doesn't mean that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u48	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u49	Madam President! This government proposal is definitely a step in the right direction. As the vaccine coverage improves, we need to be able to quickly open up society. In fact, many colleagues have pointed out how the event, cultural and sporting sectors have suffered and opportunities have had to be considered or arranged either undercut or cancelled altogether. There is a need for clarity in the future for this information, and that is why I am going to join those who are wondering whether this d-item is now such as to add this clarity to its last sentence. I would have asked the Minister for clarity when it is said that the decision referred to in the first paragraph may be taken if significant clusters of diseases are identified in the municipality or hospital district. What are these remarkable clusters of diseases? Does this now cause the speculation as to what amounts are being discussed again? Similarly, there is talk here of the risk of widespread spread.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u50	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u51	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Också jag väkomnar varmt den ox ändringen i smittskyddslagen. Vi vet att kultur-, idrott-och evenemangsbranchen kanske är den bransch som har lidit allra mest av det ox. Under fjolåret gick omsättningen ner med 70 percent, med 1.6 billion euro. Det är otroligt mycket pengar. Det enda som de rauh 200000 personalna som arbetar inom de rai branscherna vill är att få jobba och utöva sitt yrke på ett jämlikt sätt med alla andra branscher, och därför är det bra att man tar bort det rauh TVå meters säkerhetsavståndet. Och man ska naturligtvis arangera evenenmangen på ett säkert jätt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u52	Mr President! I have been very disappointed this summer about how slowly the government has reacted again to this change in the corona situation. Denmark, for example, moved to the corona pass last spring and they are already giving up when we have not even introduced it yet. Mr Heinonen has just pointed out that the reason for this is that Parliament has been on leave for the summer, and this is the Prime Minister's view that it has not been possible to make these changes, but that is certainly not the case. We are coming here to make these changes if they are needed. I am pleased that Mr Salmon, who is also chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, has pointed out that Article 58d as a whole: could be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u55	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u56	Mr President! I think Mr Lindén described the situation of the epidemic quite well. It hasn't left us. I wonder what would have happened if June had opened up and then made this legislative amendment? You'd think the situation would be completely different. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u57	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u58	Mr President! Unfortunately, the government now seems to be handling an open fracture with a Band-Aid, because I believe that this leaves quite open the way regions should interpret close contact in the future. Here the explanatory statement states that in its decision, the avi or the municipal infectious doctor should explain what close contact means in each situation, and that such open legislation cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u61	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u62	Madam President! It is incomprehensible how cultural sectors have not been seen as activities among others. Of course, it is important that this has now been awakened, and I would like this situation to be taken into account in future government decisions and in the support that the cultural sectors need. It is also important to ensure that there are no restrictions on children, as a precaution, which are not necessary. There have also been differences of interpretation in different cities, and it is important to note that, although not all children have the vaccine protection yet, their disease is different and they also cause less infection. But the fundamental question is also what has come to light here: is this guidance given to the openings too open to interpretation and what should be done about it so that we do not have to be in that situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u63	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u64	Madam President! The government is talking about this rate of reaction, and the opposition is, of course, criticising it, because in general it has been a little retrograde. But on one point the government has been pre-eminence: the government immediately started vaccinations for children between the ages of 12 and 17 when the possibility came — despite the fact that the WHO contributed in the summer to informing and announcing that they should not be started. And the reason why vaccination of children should not be started according to WHO was that it is not yet sufficiently known that the potential risks are greater than the benefits. It has now become apparent that children are up to 25 times more infected with heart muscle than non-vaccinated children in some cases, and we are not fully aware of these risks in other respects. I therefore ask the government why you rushed against the recommendation of the EMA and the WHO to vaccinate our children in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u65	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u66	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to ensure better regulation of the right to conduct and work in a viable way, without jeopardising the spread of covid-19 and the prevention of its harm to people and society. The whole Parliament has been talking for a year about precision and proportionality. However, many of the government’s proposals have recently gone on record, and this is the reason why the nerves of many sectors, such as the field of events, have tightened. The Constitution requires a need for these restrictive measures. One of the reasons for this presentation and the opening-up of society has been to improve vaccine coverage. They say that when 80 percent is full, then everything will be fine. But I looked at the statistics: for those over 45 years of age this is yes
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u67	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u68	Mr President! Vaccination coverage has improved to such an extent that it is high time to open up society and thus enable businesses affected by corona restrictions to operate economically meaningfully. This applies in particular to the cultural and event sector, which is one of the sectors most affected by corona restrictions and which is of great importance to people's well-being. For example, making it possible to organise theatre performances, concerts and sports events will also help eventgoers from the point of view of social interaction, inclusion and community. This has significant positive effects on public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u69	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u70	Madam President! I would have asked the minister about the situation. I'm sure it's all right to be able to open society up slowly, but this vaccine coverage with these two spikes up to a certain percentage will certainly help. Has the government also considered the situation in Israel, for example? The world envied Israel when they quickly vaccinated their people, but at the moment, after two spikes, the situation is that hospitals are filled with coronas. I hope that the government will also take note of this situation here, so that if necessary, the third vaccine will also be found in good time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u71	Congressman Multala's gone. — Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u72	Madam President! Mr Nieme's speech has just been an excellent reminder to us that this corona pandemic is not over yet. Therefore, although we people tend to think in black and white in general either—or, we need to see the complexity of this issue: this is both—and. The most important thing we now have is to increase the vaccination coverage. Every morning, we parliamentarians are provided with government statistics on this, where this morning the number of recipients of two vaccines was 53% of the total population. Well, that's close to 60 percent of people over 12. It has risen since July 19th, or 50 a day, from 27%. If it rises at this rate, we will be in that 80% situation at the end of October, and that is why we will have to take account of the epidemic situation, the vaccination situation, all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u73	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u74	Madam President! The Act on communicable diseases presents challenges and needs a more comprehensive assessment and reform. But we know that the field of events has been under pressure for far too long, and that is why, of course, rapid action is needed. This close contact definition has been a challenge and a problem in the past, and of course it is a good thing that it is being filed in this way, but I too would call for the whole of Article 58d to be deleted, because if we were to think that there would only be such a cut, then the regional authorities would have to re-evaluate the situation, the place, every time. What kind of resource increases would they need, and how much longer would decisions be and delayed? Could it not in practice be that such a reform would turn against itself and against the field of events? I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it would be possible to consider deleting this whole section 58d.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u75	Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u76	Madam President! Despite its good intentions, the security gap requirement has acted in practice in a way that has prevented events and cultural activities, such as small theatres or cinemas, from operating in a profitable way. Avoiding close contact is still important, it is clear, but we know that events can and could have been arranged for longer without this two-metre security interval. This proposal does not solve the problems in the field of events either, although it is very welcome and desirable. We also need more restrictions to be lifted and a vaccine passport if this epidemic is to re-emerge or if we are to have new epidemics so that we can save ourselves such a strong restriction on the cultural, event and also the restaurant sector. It is positive that people have found their way back to culture
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u77	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u78	Madam President! I myself salute this performance with great pleasure. It is very important that we should now gradually open up the field of events and culture. Good speeches have been made here on the issue of vaccine coverage, and I am concerned when there is information from that world that we would require up to 90% vaccine coverage with this deltarian to achieve its herd protection. Here I hope the government will take action — we must quickly get that vaccine coverage up. That 80% is a good target, but it is not necessarily enough, we need to get higher. To some extent, I can still agree with the opposition's criticism that this treatment of the corona pandemic has been reactive in a certain way. I would like us to now have an overall review of Finland's civilian crisis management and pandemic legislation. And I ask Minister Kiuru: are you prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u79	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u80	Mr President! Now I fear that with this current measure we will only get really different interpretations across the country and drift from a ditch to an ally. The proposed amendment to section 58d, accompanied by a risk potential assessment table published yesterday, the so-called snot index, does not detract but creates yet another insane instrument for limiting public events. This article should therefore be deleted and acted on, in particular, the provisions of Article 58c and other provisions of the Act on communicable diseases. Would this not be, Minister Kiuru, the easiest option? Come to the line of the coalition and the line of representative of the salmon and many others.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u81	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u82	Mr President! With vaccine coverage, restrictions can be lifted, and we can certainly all be happy about that. I have to say to Mr Salmon that this proposal is a cautious one, but on the other hand it leaves the health authorities with room to act if there is a setback. But I am sure that the committee will also be able to assess this deletion of the whole section. With regard to Mr Harjante's good speech, I would also like to highlight the fact that we have a lot of restrictions and restrictions, which have been imposed on the basis of, for example, the National Board of Education or the local authorities themselves. Children and young people, for example, are still subject to a ban on singing in many schools, camp schools have been cancelled, excursions have been cancelled, organisations cannot use school facilities — these kinds of restrictions, which I hope Parliament's message will be strong that they will be dismantled very quickly and that children and young people will be able to get back to normal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u83	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u84	Mr President! The performance is welcome, but not perfect. For example, it is precisely in the absence of close contact that there is a high risk that regulation will become too vague and unevenly applied in municipalities and regions. We are now trying to make more flexible legislation, but in reality the opposite is happening and there is only going to be more confusion. I also agree that Article 58 should be thoroughly scrubbed. Mr Heinonen pointed out why this has not been done in the summer, and it is easy to agree with that. We met here once in the summer, and the MPs work all the time. If it's in Finland's best interest, we'll come here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u85	And this debate will be concluded by Minister Kiuru, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u86	Mr President! First of all, Mr Rantanen asked me the right question in the whole of this debate and answered a question from quite a few of them. He wondered whether all the tools were available in this pandemic, and I am sure Mr Kärnä outlined the same thing when he asked about this pandemic and whether these tools should still be translated into legislation. This is not an unnecessary reflection, because the Constitutional Committee has stressed the priority of individual restrictions under the Act on Disease Control and has already stated in its assessment of exceptional circumstances in spring 2020, when considering the regulations adopted, it was precisely the priority of the legislation on normal conditions and the competences which are as limited as possible to fundamental rights that the authorities should, even under exceptional circumstances, act on the basis of the powers they have at their disposal under normal circumstances. At the time, the committee noted that ‘in the event of a prolonged epidemic situation, the necessary changes to the Well, on this basis, we did what we could in this crisis situation, and the Act on Disease Control now has the whole scale, the whole package of tools. I understand this anxiety about the fact that 58 d could be completely removed, but the starting point is that there will then be another 58 g, or Gabriel, where the premises would be completely closed. It is now worth focusing on the whole structure of section 58. There are different types of means available throughout the pandemic, because from the point of view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we have been required to have these health safety measures put into normal legislation. And this will be the challenge of how we will proceed in the future. We all hope, of course, that the vaccine coverage will rise to such a high level that we will not be infected with any kind of grape, not so significant that it will have to be extinguished. But if we have to put out such clusters, because the task of public authority is to protect people's lives and health, in this situation, if we need instruments, we cannot say again before Parliament that there are no more such instruments. This is the challenge the government has had. Well, then on this imbalance: Article 58 of the Act on communicable diseases, and in particular Article 58g, defines the premises to which these powers apply. I myself was prepared to present restaurants there at the time, but I did not receive any support, and now the restaurants are not there. This will be the imbalance that many of you refer to. The legislation is therefore different [The President knocks ] There was talk of the criterion of application, and I also think it is important for the representatives to take a proper look at those arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u88	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u89	We will now resume the debate on item 8 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u90	Mr President! Thus, the Government’s proposal is currently in the process of insuring the content of Article 58d of the Act on Diseases, which is provisionally in force. So why are these petty laws still being filed? All these measures proved to be completely unnecessary and over-measured more than a year ago. Ladies and gentlemen, forest animals are already laughing at this kind of activity. Let's stop fooling people. Let's declare the whole corona and all the related activities are terminated right away. People aren't stupid. They do realize that such a shaker is nothing more than a theater. This is a slow attempt, as it were inconceivably, to move to normal, so that the decision-makers are not held responsible for this corona scam, which has led to bankruptcies, financial distress and a shocking decline for taxpayers — not to mention health problems that result from experimental coronas. Mr President! Since Finns are a conscientious people and in our culture a recommendation and a call is generally felt to be an obligation, it has been extremely irresponsible to do and continue this kind of activity, which statistics revealed a long time ago as a lie. Such action is a disgrace to the entire people. Take a look at the shopping centres, ladies and gentlemen, at how many people are still out there with their faces covered for nothing. Of course, this last year has been a golden age for so-called male flu patients, for normal glanders, or even asymptomatic, get the whole world's attention, that is to say, the whole health system and the media are holding your hand and paapoo, and this will give you another entry in the statistics to fuel more fear for the citizens. Seriously, this madness isn't funny anymore. The consequences of this false pandemic are more than serious for society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us put an end to this day and immediately all the corona restrictions and corona vaccinations and the talk of vaccine passports. None of those things are needed and never would have been. And now is the time for the whole parliament to apologize to the Finnish people for their stupidity and their delusions. Mr President, you could start with that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u91	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u92	Honorable Madam Speaker! Tens of thousands of skilled cultural professionals and businesses must be allowed to work safely. There has been no justification for unequal treatment in the field of events and culture. The evening in the sitting is getting a long way, but I would like to take the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group. In that excellently initiated debate, which was a very good thing that we were able to debat immediately in this referral to the Act on Disease Control, the position that our parliamentary group has is that the amendment to the Act on Disease Control, the draft law on Section 58d, is very welcome. It has been expected for a long time, too long — as early as May, all the parliamentary groups, including the Minister for Culture, were on the stairway to apologise for the slowness of the work, and only now did the bill come to Parliament. Better late than never, but it was very clear in this referral that the proposal was welcome, but a huge disappointment was that the article was not repealed but proposed to be changed. In other words, the problematic two-metre minimum distance criterion contained in the section has unduly caused damage to the cultural and event sector and is not justified by the current epidemic situation and improved vaccination coverage. That is Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases. should be repealed. In the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, we want to clarify the situation and put this matter in order. We have taken a bill to repeal that section. That's what we brought up. It will be in the referral debate tomorrow, and it will then be available for parliamentary debate. And it was excellent that Markus Salmon, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, signaled that he too thought it appropriate to repeal, and I believe that he spoke on behalf of all the groups in the government. I therefore hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will give serious consideration to this option, and instead of being reworked, this article will be modified as the government proposes — which has emerged in the parliamentary debate that it may lead from a ditch to an ally and make the situation less clear — and I very much hope that this will be done in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It's really important. Many experts have estimated that the modification and non-refusal of that section will only add confusion and problems to the already disproportionate situations. And it has been really absurd that even in the difficult epidemics of public transport there have been almost laps, tight, in a row, but then the theatres have been empty, and now, even though the epidemic situation is like this, there have been premieres and other shows for almost empty audiences, such as at the City Theatre in Helsinki. That bill has been taken because, if Parliament wishes, it will be able to choose our legislative initiative rather than bring that government into line with the confused regulation, but, of course, it is important that we proceed quickly, quickly. Mr President! This proposal has been very much desired, even by the ministers, and that is why this delay has been amazed, especially since it has become very expensive in human and economic terms. Last year, EUR 1.6 billion or nearly 70 per cent of the turnover of the industry disappeared. Those working in the field of culture and events have been pushed into a tight spot by blocking the conditions for work, and with such a large and huge number of people without work and security, the situation is very serious, not to mention, of course, people who would like to consume culture. Culture is a very important part of people's everyday lives, and it is highlighted when we are in crisis situations. Tomorrow I will take the floor, I will present the initiative of the parliamentary group on that convention and I will not go to it at this point in the evening, but I will just say quickly that a number of legal scholars have estimated that this government proposal really makes regulation more confusing and that the problems in relation to Articles 58 and 58d of the Act on Diseases are only becoming more acute, and it is estimated that this has not been understood by the government, which is the cause of these problems, and that more people have proposed the repeal of that section, and that is why I really think it is important that this is really the case and that this article should be repealed. And finally, it is vital that restrictive measures are necessary and proportionate in all situations and that all the less restrictive, overall less harmful, restrictions should first be exploited. And the last thing I'm gonna say is that I've been really worried about staying on my corona pass. It is used in many European countries, and now that I have listened to the Prime Minister on Sunday and we are talking about waiting for a corona pass in order to increase vaccine coverage, I do not understand this type of speech, because the corona passport is primarily intended for the intermission period when vaccinations are not yet comprehensive, when it can be considered as Finland's open corona pass, so that when vaccination is extensive, it can be released from these restrictions, that is to say, it has been an instrument for, for example, first-restricted seniors who have received vaccines, to have been able to become cultural. We could have avoided bankruptcies and human suffering, and in that sense I would indeed insist that the vaccine passport and other means, rapid tests are introduced so that we can keep Finland open and safe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u93	Congressman Lindén's gone. — Mr Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u94	Madam Speaker! There has been a very unanimous view in this Chamber today that this amendment to the law is necessary, but, as Mr Sarkomaa said, it seems that perhaps this proposal is no longer a matter of government and opposition. I was already a little surprised by the speech by the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in which he said that this issue should be looked at again. It does remind us that these rapid changes, or changes that have been prepared for a long time and are finally being brought here, do not comply with the government-opposition limit. It is a good thing that we have a proper debate on this now. I took a good look at that comment from the event industry, which, of course, took the view that the most important thing is this waiver of the security interval requirement, but the next is, of course, the implementation of this hybrid strategy. These ambiguities were highlighted very carefully in relation to this risk potential assessment table published on the THL website, how it has been done, and they used the words that this is strongly ‘Cultural and inactive’. But there are a lot of duubies in that field, a lot of fears about what this is going to mean, but on the other hand there is a very strong will that now the government has finally made progress in these presentations and that they have been brought here to Parliament. There was also talk here today about whether these should still have been rushed. I do not think it is worth looking back too much, but we must act quickly now. There has also been a debate here on how quickly to get these things out of Parliament, if this too goes into the Constitutional Committee with these prospects, and I think it would be important, however, to have them dealt with there as quickly as possible, so that we do not have weeks here. I think two weeks is too much in this situation. Now we need to pull ourselves together, and today, when many representatives in Parliament wanted to get together from the government in the summer, Parliament itself can now get together and work as quickly as possible on this issue. I would like to say to Mr Sarkomaa about that corona passport: what has come to be the message from the operators in the sector about it, they too see that it is important that a tool is created urgently in Finland too, but they feel, at least in their declarations, that the tool will be used to prepare for the future epidemic waves and how the Prime Minister described the situation, but it must of course be noted that action must be taken quickly here too. At the end of the day, Mr President, we must praise the rather recent Minister, Mr Kurvise. I myself attended the same event outside the house when the cultural people were gathered. It was a very impressive opportunity. I believe that the fact that the newly elected minister took this matter so forcefully and carried it through in that government contributed to the fact that this proposal was finally brought here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u95	Congressman Kiviranta gone. — Representative Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u96	Irade fru talman, Madam President! From a global perspective, Finland has handled the challenges posed by the corona well, both public authorities and citizens. We've learned a lot about this time and some good things. Man is a social being, and it is essential that we meet friends, enjoy various events that give us added value, well-being. The interest period has shown how important events are. Many yearn for experiences, spiritual well-being. We must now look ahead — there must be a way out of the corona. The vaccine coverage is increasing rapidly. It is calculated that in mid-October 80% of citizens have two vaccines. I also believe that the abolition of restrictions is justified in terms of vaccination coverage. There is now a good situation in Finland and restrictions must be proportionate to the current situation. It is also great that the hybrid strategy was announced yesterday, and, of course, as has been said here, this will now be monitored with great care and transparency during the autumn. The removal of the two-metre safety distance from the infectious disease law is a step towards fairer treatment of the cultural, artistic, sports, sporting and event sectors, a step in the right direction. The RKP has been in favour of this for a long time, and it is gratifying to see that the government was able to submit a proposal on such a fast schedule this autumn, although it has been mentioned before. In Uusimaa, for example, we have been able to see during the weekend how the removal of the two-metre rule has saved more than one event. From the point of view of events and cultural business and international competitiveness, it is essential that these events can be opened up. It must also be easier to organise concerts and sporting events in the future. Finland must therefore be reopened, and it is good that we now have uniform restrictions throughout the country, so that theatres, for example, can continue to operate. Local authorities' decisions are good and acceptable, but the interpretations of the law must be fair, transparent and equal throughout Finland, flexibly and agilely. We know that there have been regional differences in the past during the corona. All livelihoods should therefore be treated equally. The sector employs almost 200,000 people and a large number of them are currently looking forward to getting back to work in order to pursue their own livelihoods. Unfortunately, some have already changed sectors. The interest rate has highlighted the extent and significance of regional economic and welfare impacts in the field of events and culture. Last year, turnover in the field of events fell by 70 % — by 70 %, or EUR 1.6 billion. It's really big money. Now is the time to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u97	Madam President! Despite its good and sincere purpose, this two-metre security interval has been in practice to prevent, for example, small theaters and cinemas from operating. Of course, avoiding close contact has been extremely important in this period of epidemics, pandemics, and it is still important. But we all know that events can also be arranged in a corona-proof manner without this two-metre security interval. This could have been done before this current level of vaccine coverage, as the actors involved in the event have demonstrated by their examples and also by concrete events that this is possible. Recently, in areas where events have taken place, the infections have not been traced much to theatres or concert halls. It is therefore good and important that this two-metre security interval, which has caused unacceptable harm, should now be abolished. However, it is clear that the problems in the field of events will not yet be solved by this proposal, although it is a good step in the right direction. We also need more restrictions to be lifted in the regions. We need to break down the restrictions that have been imposed — many in the interests of certainty, some of which have remained a little on top. They have also been mentioned in this Chamber, such as visits to cultural institutions by school groups. They should not be hindered at a time when cultural institutions are open and organised in a health-safe manner. However, such rules have been laid down in municipalities and regions. These are also important for the cultural sector's recovery. Well, we also need a vaccine passport. There may not be a need for the vaccine passport now under preparation when vaccination coverage is beginning to be high and restrictions can be fully lifted, but there may still be a need for it. We do not know whether this pandemic is over either, but we do not particularly know what new pandemics and epidemics we are still facing. You might want to finish preparing your vaccine pass. It is a good way to avoid major restrictions in the cultural, event and restaurant sectors, where we have still been in places in the last few days, even though more than half of the population has already received both doses of vaccine. Well, we have also rightly discussed the illogical nature of these restrictions and, in some places, the unclear communication and regional differences in the interpretation of the law. These are certainly not good qualities for legislation, especially if it is hoped that citizens and operators will keep up with it and incorporate it. These should be clarified when the Act on communicable diseases is next updated and, as Minister Kiuru has said, there is a reason for such a comprehensive update after this current epidemic. There is also a need to harmonise the relationship between transaction-sector restrictions and restaurant restrictions. The corona does not grab it more easily in a space with live music than in a space where the music comes from the record. The cultural sector really needs a view of its own sector, and that is why this lack of clarity in the implementation of these restrictions on a regional basis is still causing damage to the sector, even after this bill. We also need a strong cultural policy to bring the cultural sector back to its former boom or even beyond. It is important to encourage people to return to culture, participate in events and consume culture and participate in sports and other events. In Finland, municipalities have an obligation to organise artistic and cultural activities for their residents, and I think that it should now be invested in even more flame than before the interest rate has been invested. At the same time, there is also the possibility of managing the loneliness and welfare debt that the corona period has brought. The effects of culture on the overall well-being of people have been much studied and can be verified. I also think that we, as decision-makers, have quite a lot of work to do in order to restore the trust of cultural and event actors, artists and entrepreneurs, and this change of law will be a first step towards it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u98	Representative Rehn-Kivi absent, representative Kauma absent, representative Reijonen absent, representative Kärnä absent. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u99	Mr President! For many of us, it has become a practice to monitor the daily levels of corona infection published by the media. They have become like sports results that we look at every day. This day-to-day surveillance has had its place and basis, but not so much anymore. It is much more relevant in this time period to monitor the increase in vaccine coverage and the stress of hospitals. And fortunately, vaccine coverage is rising — although I would prefer it to happen more quickly — and, fortunately, in the case of the corona, the hospitals are not tumbling, so society needs to be opened up. This is a good start, although the committee will certainly also be subject to clarification of the ambiguities. The government's proposal proposes, among other things, to remove the limitation from the security intervals of less than two metres indoors, well done. Giving up the security intervals of 2 metres will significantly improve the opportunities to engage and engage. It improves the operating conditions of various traders and event organisers. Many forms of business are becoming economically viable again, and everyone in this Chamber understands the importance of this. Regional authorities will still be able to define the conditions for the use of holdings in the event of significant clusters of diseases in the region. By way of authorisation, I am generally concerned about the extent to which the aids are able to cope with their interest rate tasks, particularly in areas where there is still fire. I hope that this bill will not be used as a means of scrupulous tinkering, for example, with regard to the evaluation of the premises, but that sound reflection and unambiguous guidelines will make it easier for them to act. President! I also welcome the fact that the occurrences are abandoned and that we say good-bye to the eternal declarations in the areas of acceleration and spread. Of course, we can't move on like that. Further, hygiene and reasonable conduct are essential conditions for us to move towards a better one. I hope that the committee will be careful, but that it will be quick. We're a lot of guards in not jamming society unnecessarily. To take account of the specific characteristics of regions and events and to stare at more than just the number of infections. Unblocking and increasing vaccine coverage. Let's go to normal. For many, the most difficult situation has been this interim. It has not been possible to act properly, but on the other hand it is not prohibited.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u100	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u101	Madam President! The amendment of the Act on Diseases is a proper measure. We need to adapt to the new situation all the time. After all, this corona epidemic is gradually coming under control, we know that, and I have been a little surprised at the speeches that detract from it so that it is not a serious disease. When comparing the situation in Finland with the situation in Sweden, perhaps it opens up a little better to the fact that if nothing had been done, we would be living in the situation we are living in today. And, on the other hand, when you look at this situation in Finland, the problem with this corona virus is that for the first time there is a disease of this scale, a virus that has spread among the population, causing more or less serious problems, we have not really been able to look for a model, but everything has been done for the first time – now we are gradually beginning to learn. With adequate vaccinations, we will certainly be able to control the situation even better. I am reminded of the opinion of an American doctor who said that in the coming days the corona will only be a disease of the unvaccinated and that for those who have received the vaccine this will no longer be a problem. So I think that this medical truth should be taken seriously by everyone. Finally, Madam President, I would like to add: When the corona has often been underestimated, it is when you read in the magazines the fates of those so - called long - covided people, that is, the people who have been severely plagued by the corona virus — they have been in intensive care for a long time, even weeks, months, then they have suffered severe lung injury, even heart injury, or brain injury — and their recovery takes a long time. I hope that this debate will stick to what we have seen during this corona, and against that background in the coming times — when we cannot win the corona, it will spin around the world as long as it does — we will be able to become so smart about this situation that we can control our own behaviour so that we do not risk it or spread it to our fellow citizens or spread it anywhere in general. Now is the time for responsible conduct, and I believe that the first lesson is about to end.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u102	Congressman Holopainen, Mari gone. — Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u103	Madam President! There have been a lot of good speeches during this debate, both in that debate earlier in the afternoon and now during the evening, but I would like to add a few more points to this debate. Mr Hoskonen, as always, spoke with great wisdom. In my opinion, it is indeed timely that Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases should apply. As Mr Sarkomaa has clearly stated in that debate, the position of the parliamentary group on the Convention is being changed and we believe that this could be completely overturned. That is why we have also taken a legislative initiative on this issue, which will certainly be here tomorrow in the referral debate, and I am sure that we will now make a real contribution to this committee. I would see that, in this respect, a clearer and more secure outcome would result in this matter being dealt with on the basis of the legislative initiative of the Assembly than, to some extent, on the basis of a government proposal which remains uncertain, because the government's proposal contains such unclear definitions that it is difficult to be sure that Parliament's will for the health security of various cultural, sporting and other events will be realised when the local authorities consider these issues. After all, Finland is, by its very nature, the most functioning society in the world, and it has enabled us to cope relatively well with this very difficult pandemic situation in itself. Of course, the impact of the pandemic on Finnish society has been very diverse, and we will certainly pay this bill in different ways for a long time to come. However, there is good reason to thank the Finns extensively for their responsible activities. The Finns have followed the instructions and regulations of the authorities, and now that we can still see to it that the vaccination coverage of the nation as a whole is so wide that we really can put an end to this pandemic and, for us, the epidemic has come to an end, and we have done well. Of course, when some people expect that there will still be virus variants that the vaccines will not be able to do, we cannot with all certainty predict the future, but as we know, for example, about the possibilities for developing vaccines based on mRNA technology that are now widely used, it is very fast to develop such vaccines for almost any kind of viral modification so that they can also be used safely to enhance the effectiveness of the vaccine. Therefore, even if the coronavirus, as Mrs Hoskonen wisely said before, becomes such a circulating disease among the non-vaccinated, the population responsible for the vaccination can, for example, provide complete protection against such serious illness with an annual effect, as with the influenza vaccine. So I hope that we Finns will be responsible enough to ensure that this vaccine coverage is comprehensive and that in the future we will also take advantage of the possibilities of vaccines to manage this virus epidemic. Madam President! When we talk about opening up events, I still want to bring a glimpse of hope here in the great Chamber of Parliament that we have read in today's news. After all, there was a message from Jukola in Rovaniemi about two weeks ago. Jukola’s message is a major navigational message event, the largest sporting event held annually in the Nordic countries, and this year, even though the number of participants remained about half of what it would have been in normal conditions, 15,000 people gathered in Rovaniemi’s Mäntyvaara competition centre to celebrate Jukola in the Arctic Circle. From this huge sporting festival, the authorities really did come out today, and it was estimated that no infection could have been associated with this major event. This, of course, gives hope to the nation as a whole and to the sports and cultural sector as a whole that, when we act responsibly — all participants act responsibly, the organisers act responsibly — the events can be organised in a completely health-friendly manner. For my part, I would like to express my great thanks to all those who have arrived in Jukola and all those who have participated in the arrangements for this successful event. The message of Jukola is an important national institution, and this almost complete success, of course, gives the whole nation hope that we can now, with good pleasure, move towards the post-pandemic period, when we know how to organise health-safe events.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u104	Congressman Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u105	Madam President! An excellent debate has been held in this Chamber today on this important draft law, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has today taken up this amendment to Article 58d of the Act on Disease Control. It is quite clear that this change of law is, in the current situation, a very necessary and necessary one, a step in the right direction and a relationship. On the other hand, it also shows in concrete terms that the government's will to dismantle in a controlled manner and, responsibly, the restrictions are genuine. And this too is in line with this hybrid strategy, which was updated yesterday, for which the draft now exists. The reality and awareness of the impact of these restrictive measures on the economy in general, but especially in the restaurant, event and cultural sectors, have a very strong influence on the background of this legislative change. One of the main reasons why these restrictions should be lifted is precisely that these economic effects, the impact on employment and the way in which they are geared to people's livelihoods are considerable, and there is no need to prolong these restrictions any more than there is a pressing need for. In other words, it is a question of learning to live with this virus, but on the other hand we must also pay particular attention to the fact that, in this situation as a whole, this vaccine coverage is now the key factor. And now that coverage is rising at a delightful rate in Finland, it provides the basis for us to genuinely return to this normal life. What is essential in this draft law is now that, at the legislative level, the precise and categorical definition of contact is abandoned, i.e. the removal of this two-metre requirement and, at the same time, the removal of its strict inclusion in this incidence criterion. At least in those expert hearings, this has received a great deal of praise, and this is considered very necessary. But at the same time in this debate it is quite relevant to note that now, when this kind of intimate definition of local contact disappears, there is concern about the way in which then, as it were, this regional and national equal treatment takes place, and the regional authorities have also raised this concern for their part. In my opinion, this is the steak and the core of this debate in a certain way, because we all know that, until now, this definition has been so clearly enshrined in the law, the regional authorities, infectious doctors in the municipalities, in the medical districts have repeatedly had to take restrictive decisions which, as it were, have not been genuinely appropriate in view of its regional situation, i.e. have had to implement and enforce stricter restrictions than actual requirements. And the authorities have systematically also appealed that when this is written in the law, the law must be observed. This has been precisely the reason why there have been excessive situations, and now that this criterion has been removed in this regard will result in much more freedom to take decisions which are also justified, fair and appropriate in practice. But here perhaps we need to pay particular attention to the question of whether, however, some definition should be included in the legislation, and I believe that it is still very much on the table in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. But it is precisely this amendment of the law that makes it possible for these restrictions not to be imposed any more than is appropriate. There has also been a debate here today as to whether this section should be completely deleted, but given this whole and the current situation of vaccine coverage, it may not be realistic to think that the authorities will be completely removed from the scope of any restrictions at this stage. In that sense, this article itself is quite appropriate and still has its place in it as a whole. It is clear, however, that the Act on communicable diseases as a whole needs updating and a very thorough examination of the changes it will require for the future and looking at similar situations, because we know that there are genuine shortcomings. There is still a real need for this article at the moment, but the fact that changing it will create real opportunities to take account of the different factors at regional level is extremely important and will allow this vaccine coverage to return to normal and will certainly bring the expected relief, especially in the event and cultural sectors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u106	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u107	Madam President! I'm a mechanical engineer and a special teacher from my training. By this I would like to say that I do not have such epidemiological knowledge of this corona situation, but since this time many have turned to the fact that this is a matter of opinion, I just want to say briefly that I believe that all restrictions should be lifted immediately, which is just my opinion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u108	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u109	Mr President! In the Government's proposal, HE 98 proposes that Parliament approve the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and its Member States and Singapore and the Act on the Implementation of the Agreement. Since the agreement contains provisions in the field of legislation, its national adoption and enforcement require the approval of the Parliament in Finland. The EU has concluded partnership and cooperation agreements with several countries. These agreements are legally binding and aim to establish a comprehensive framework for cooperation in the policy, economic and other areas of sectoral cooperation. The agreement signed with Singapore in 2018 is the fourth EU agreement in the region of South-East Asia. Previous similar agreements have been concluded with Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam. South-East Asia's role in world policy is growing geopolitically and commercially. Singapore's high level of development and its position as a hub of trade routes make it an important player in the region. Singapore is the EU's largest trading partner in South-East Asia, and the country shares common objectives with the EU, including in the context of multilateral international cooperation and free trade. Singapore is also an important export and transit country for Finland, where some 70 Finnish companies are active. Apart from the Free Trade Agreement, the contractual relationship between the EU and Singapore is currently based on the cooperation agreement concluded by the European Community and ASEAN in 1980. This can be seen as an outdated and insufficient basis for existing cooperation between the EU and Singapore. The new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement will take better account of issues such as security, migration, home affairs and human rights. The agreement also constitutes a wider institutional entity with the EU-S Singapore free trade and investment protection agreements negotiated with it. The overall objective of the agreement is to deepen cooperation between the EU and Singapore in a number of areas. The agreement defines the EU's relations with Singapore and also provides a framework for Member States' bilateral activities with the country. The overall aim of the agreement is to strengthen the political and economic importance of the EU and its Member States and of Singapore in each other's regions. In addition to the provisions relating to security, the legal area and arms control, the agreement aims to increase trade between the parties and strengthen the multilateral trading system. Other cooperation commitments concern energy, transport, migration, education and culture, environment, climate change, employment, social issues, science and technology, taxation, financial control, information society and data protection, the audiovisual sector and the media and statistics. The principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights are the cross-cutting themes of the Treaty. The agreement also emphasises the coordination of positions and the exchange of information in international fora. Mr President! The agreement is of a so-called mixed nature, which contains provisions which fall within the competence of both the EU and its Member States. The Treaty covers its provisions on human rights, non-proliferation and arms control and migration. In the long term, the contractual provisions on trade and other economic cooperation are expected to have a beneficial impact on Finland's economy and the activities of Finnish companies. The agreement can also be seen as increasing the weight of the EU and thus Finland, both in Singapore and elsewhere in South-East Asia. The Agreement shall contribute to the internal security of the parties, to orderly migration and, indirectly, to environmental policy objectives. The activities of the authorities are not directly affected by the agreement and their tasks can be carried out by the current staff. Mr President! Finally, the agreement will enter into force once it has been approved by all its parties at national level. So far, 12 EU Member States have done this. In addition, the European Parliament has given its consent to the agreement. The bill contained in the government proposal is intended to enter into force at the same time as the agreement enters into force. The entry into force would be regulated separately by a Government decree.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u110	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u111	Mr President! The Minister well presented the need for this partnership and cooperation agreement not only to the European Union, but also to Singapore, because this is the relationship that we are trying to build here. It is not just a question of commercial relations, it is a broader contractual arrangement which promotes cooperation on a very broad scale. It is also essential that these criteria of the rule of law are involved and present here. These similar agreements, as the Minister said, have already been concluded with the ASEAN countries three times earlier, namely Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam. I was actually the first to ask why this has not been done before with Singapore. It would have imagined that it would have been a rather natural partner, identifying Singapore as a regional, commercial and economic centre and also its wider role, even though the state is an urban state. It is understandable that these agreements have not been concluded in the area of ASEAN, for example because of the military regime with Thailand, understanding also the situation in Cambodia and Myanmar and the situation in Laos. They're all a little retarded at this point. But I would ask the Minister quite sincerely: why is there no such arrangement with Malaysia, and are we driving it and considering it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u112	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u113	Mr President! There are two such interesting urban states in South-East Asia, Hong Kong and Singapore, both of which are, among other things, financial concentrations. I would like to ask the Minister: now that there is a lot of turbulence in Hong Kong — there apparently some financial players are considering moving away at least — have these considerations now affected Finland’s relationship with Singapore and, possibly, this agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u114	Secretary Haavisto, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u115	Mr President! Thank you for the good speeches, the expert speeches. First of all, Mr Kiljunen: it is in Finland's interest, of course, that such agreements should be established throughout the region of South-East Asia, but it is precisely the kind of obstacles that still exist in the region, as you mentioned, and that issues of democracy and human rights are also a central part of these agreements. Of course, we are dependent on this order of things, where agreements arise, when the EU is a negotiating machine, and then on the European Parliament's handling of these matters, but for Finland, it is of course in our interest to have joint agreements prepared by the EU for the region of South-East Asia. And for the representative of the park: This is an important observation that Hong Kong's role as an economic hub is, as it were, decreasing or decreasing. Its activities are partially dissolved with the Chinese activities, and it is certainly the case that this has then strengthened some other commercial centres in South-East Asia. At least when you look at this activity of companies, Singapore has maintained, if not slightly, its position from the perspective of Finnish companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u116	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u117	Mr President! It is valuable to hear that the Union is considering the whole region of South-East Asia as a whole, but it is a trade and economic cooperation organisation such as ASEAN, with which the Union naturally cooperates. And then there's nothing to tell me about Malaysia. I would have liked to have heard whether there have been negotiations with Malaysia, however. I understand that order may vary and that there are many factors in it. But more broadly on this question: do there exist similar arrangements with the countries of South Asia?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u118	And Minister Haavisto, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u119	Mr President! I must now say to Mr Kiljunen that there are so specific questions that I will certainly return to the order in which the negotiations with Malaysia and other countries are taking place in that debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But if you look at the whole of South-East Asia in terms of its economic development, it is also becoming an increasingly important economic partner for Europe and there are the countries we have previously looked at from the point of view of development cooperation. Vietnam is a pretty good example. Its economic growth has been very significant and has escaped and survived poverty. There are examples of this in South-East Asia that are encouraging in many ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u120	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u121	Mr President! This proposal provides for a temporary amendment of the law on the supervision and insolvency payment of a package of travel services by adding a new Article 5a to the Act, which provides that the fee for the supervision and insolvency protection of the year2020 is not to be imposed. The aim of the proposal is to facilitate the situation of tour operators whose business has been affected by travel restrictions imposed by the covid-19 pandemic. The amendment would enter into force as soon as possible and be in force until the end of 21. The measures taken to prevent the spread of the corona virus pandemic, in particular travel restrictions, effectively stopped the tourism sector in March 2020. As the pandemic situation persists, the difficult economic situation in the tourism sector has also continued. According to data from the Finnish Tourism Federation, SMAL, sales of travel agencies in March 2021 had fallen by 94.2 per cent in March 2019. In March 2021, approximately 74 per cent of the staff of travel agents and tour operators were laid off full-time or part-time. The purpose of this proposal is to facilitate the difficult economic situation resulting from the restrictions on the pandemic in the tourism sector and the prolonged lack of payment of the supervisory and insolvency protection fee for the year 20. The non-payment of the levy would apply to tour operators who are obliged to provide a guarantee to protect the advance payments made by passengers and the cost of returning passengers and to pay the supervisory and insolvency charges. From the perspective of tour operators, the current situation is challenged by the fact that the supervisory and insolvency protection fee is determined on the basis of the business of 2019, when the covid-19 pandemic did not yet affect the business. The median benefit to tour operators of the abolition of the charge is estimated to be EUR 955.29, and the State would not receive tax revenue of around EUR 768400.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u122	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u123	Mr President! The conditions for entrepreneurs to operate must be secured as far as possible in the face of the challenges posed by the corona pandemic. This is also the way the government has consistently acted. The tourism sector has suffered severely from corona pandemics, and in many cases the turnover of Finnish tour operators has fallen by over 90 per cent in 2020 and 2021 compared to the corresponding period of 2019. An important adaptation measure is that travel service companies are now temporarily submitted for exemption under normal conditions from the mandatory fee for supervision and insolvency protection. This existing payment system protects consumers from the bankruptcy of the tour operator and is therefore an important mechanism. However, in the present situation, the levying of this charge on tour operators is disproportionate and makes the situation in the sector even worse. Securing and supporting the operating conditions of Finnish entrepreneurship in difficult times is another expression of government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u124	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u125	Madam President! This non-payment of the supervisory and insolvency protection fee for 2020 is definitely the right measure. In the early days of the corona pandemic, the tour operators were rather overlooked. Much was said about the restrictions on restaurants and how they affect the sector, but many tour operators then contacted them after a while and found that they have been completely ignored in this debate, even though in a certain way these two sectors, at least to some extent, also sideline each other. I thought that here, first of all, in the opinions of SMAL and, of course, MaRa and the Confederation of Finnish Industries, all of them, have supported this proposal. There has also been the possibility of changing these criteria, but obviously it has come to the conclusion that such a change of rule criteria would be a bureaucratic approach to this issue, and it is certainly simpler simply to say that they will not be collected now, and that it will help this sector, which is also in distress. As we discussed much about this plight of event organizers in that section of the infectious disease bill, now the tour operators will receive a hand - out. Here too, from the opposition, we can thank the government that this is the right thing to do, and that is exactly what must be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u126	Congressman Reijone is gone. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u127	Mr President! As mentioned above, it is a small relief for the travel agency sector, which has undeniably been one of the worst affected areas of the corona crisis and certainly, as Mr Essayah described above, has also largely been overshadowed and ignored, has not received the kind of attention you would have wanted. This non-payment of the supervisory and insolvency protection fee is justified, as has been said, and it is good that the government has submitted this proposal to Parliament. Indeed, the scale is illustrated by the fact that travel agency sales have fallen by as much as 94% and the majority of workers have been laid off. The prospects for the sector as a whole are very uncertain, because we are getting started and if we are going to be profitable in the future. Now we can only hope that there will finally be light at the end of the tunnel and that the prospects will be strengthened, that the world will not permanently turn inward with the corona, that travelling and learning different cultures will be reduced, that there will be no negative development of the type that I think people will no longer be interested in travelling or that it will not be possible to travel on the same scale. In particular, I am concerned about young people who miss out on valuable life experience and cultural knowledge when travel restrictions have been in place in practice around the world because of a global pandemic. I hope that, as far as possible, the government will anticipate the future, so that, when possible, people will also have the courage to book those trips, and thus travel agency sales will be refreshed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u128	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion by 1 December 2021 at the latest. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Ombudsman Jääskeläinen, presentation of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u129	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am pleased and honoured to present to you the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman on the activities of the year 2020. At the beginning of the year it was 100 years since this second oldest institution of ombudsmen in the world began to operate. In February of the reporting year, we had the opportunity to hold a 100th anniversary celebration, which released the centenary book 100 years of legal supervision and legal security. We had a number of programmes planned for the anniversary year, but unfortunately, the corona epidemic forced all opportunities to be cancelled. As a result of the interest-bearing epidemic, the reporting year was also exceptional in many other ways in the Ombudsman's activities, and we received, among other things, a record number of complaints. As usual, at the beginning of the report there are statements by the Ombudsman and the Assistant Ombudsman on a subject of their own choice. In my own speech, I am looking at the Ombudsman as a guardian of the rule of law. The Ombudsman has a key role to play in maintaining and promoting the rule of law. This is due to the fact that the Ombudsman’s duties as the supreme judicial officer are linked to all key elements of the rule of law. I myself have read in them, firstly, the legal and legal nature of the exercise of public authority, secondly, the fundamental rights system which guarantees the rights and freedoms of the individual, thirdly, the independent judiciary and fourthly, the independent law enforcement. If these elements of the rule of law are considered from the point of view of the Ombudsman's duties, it can be concluded that the monitoring of the legality of the exercise of public authority and the control of the exercise of fundamental rights are specific tasks laid down by the Ombudsman in the Constitution. The Ombudsman’s activities also support the independence of courts and other judicial authorities. In fact, the Constitutional Committee of the Parliament has read the Ombudsman's activities as part of the constitutional identity of Finland. For these reasons, the protection of the rule of law is linked to the protection of the Ombudsman’s capacity to act. It is essential for them that tasks closely related to the individual’s legal status are not excluded from the Ombudsman’s remit and that the Ombudsman’s independence is not compromised. In Finland, the rule of law has been well taken care of, but there are other circumstances that need to be prepared for. Ms Sakslin, the Assistant Ombudsman, will look at how the corona pandemic has challenged our fundamental rights system. Crisis is characterised by different types of threats to rights, but also by the means used to combat these threats may jeopardise the exercise of rights. There has been an unprecedented restriction on the rights of the entire population during the period of the Korona pandemic. Some restrictions have even been felt to offend human dignity. Almost all fundamental rights and the rights of all persons have been subject to far-reaching restrictions. There has been a broad consensus during the period of the Koronapandemic that public authorities have an obligation to protect the lives and health of the population and therefore also an obligation to ensure adequate medical capacity and that this is a very important criterion for the fundamental rights system. On the other hand, it is more difficult to reach consensus on whether measures are necessary and in line with the principle of proportionality. If the focus is on the success of fundamental rights restrictions or deviations from them in protecting life and promoting health, a very different picture will emerge from the analysis of the restrictions on rights and freedoms that have been imposed and their impact on individuals and society. It is too early to make a final assessment of how our fundamental rights system has survived the corona epidemic and exceptional circumstances. However, it has been particularly worrying to note that, in order to prevent the spread of the virus, public authority has been used in a way that restricts fundamental rights without the right to do so. Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Hölönen examines constitutional issues in the Ombudsman's law enforcement. Despite the ex-ante control of the constitutionality of the laws, there are sometimes situations in which it is justified for the Ombudsman to intervene as a guardian of the rule of law. The most typical issue is that the application of the law is considered to lead in some cases from a fundamental and human rights perspective to problematic outcomes. At times, the law enforcement officer also makes statements in respect of Article 124 of the Constitution in relation to the exercise of public administrative functions outside the governmental organisation. Sometimes it is a matter of detecting completely new types of constitutional issues. This was the decision given by Deputy Ombudsman Hölönen concerning the legal basis for the operation of the State Senate real estate during the reporting year. In part, constitutional and other legal defects in the case were also identified in the parliamentary procedure. The Parliament required the Government to provide a comprehensive report on Senate properties, its subsidiary office on defence properties and the entire Senate Group by the beginning of the autumn session of 2022. Madam President! Following these speeches, the report provides an overview of the Ombudsman’s activities in 2020. Over 7,000 complaints were received during the reporting year. This is the highest number ever and about 800 complaints more than in the previous year. The previous year, i.e. 2019, was also a record year, and the number of complaints rose by nearly 700. In the reporting year, the increase in the number of complaints was mainly due to the corona virus but not entirely. Despite the large number of complaints, we were able to resolve the complaints as much as they came in the reporting year and so that there were no complaints pending at the end of the year that were more than one year old. This was already achieved for the eighth time in a row. However, it has to be noted that the staff of the Office have worked at the limit of their ability to cope and that it was essential to achieve this objective that the corona epidemic did not allow inspections to be carried out in the same way as before. Only 23 inspections were carried out, and these were mainly carried out as documentary checks, whereas over 100 inspections have been carried out every year in recent years. Around 80 own initiatives were resolved and about 100 opinions were issued. Of all complaints and own initiatives, more than 1000 cases, or almost 15%, led to the Ombudsman’s actions. This percentage of measures is very high in international comparisons. The report then contains a broad section on the implementation of fundamental and human rights. This section also includes the Ombudsman's activities in specific tasks under international agreements. These are the role of the national supervisory body, which is to carry out inspections at places where persons who have lost their liberty are kept, and the second is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The fourth main section of the report is a new one, bringing together issues related to coronavirus. In the reporting year, almost 1,000 legality enforcement cases were brought up, one way or another related to the corona epidemic. There was a wide variety of issues and issues related to almost all sectors of government. Finally, in the fifth main section of the report, which is the most extensive section of the findings on legality control, either by administrative sector or by group of dossiers. Madam President! This is my presentation. I hope that this report will enable Parliament to assess the state of legislation and public administration, as well as the implementation of fundamental and human rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u130	Thank you. — Then we will move on to the debate, and Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u131	Madam President! I have taken it upon myself now in this parliamentary term to make a brief speech on this matter, this Ombudsman's report, because this is very important. I have mentioned here earlier, and I repeat now that this is important in itself, the Institute is important, but also the effectiveness with which we, in terms of the use of public administration and public authority, are trying to make the issues outlined here more understandable within that service system. For twenty years, I used to do it in a way that, while I was in charge of the health care organization, I made copies of the paper versions of the points on health care at the time and then distributed them to supervisors at a relatively large level in the organisation. So, of course, even now my own particular interest in this very important document as a whole is focused on these issues on both sides of page 300, which deals specifically with health care issues by the administrative branch. Of course, this highlights psychiatry, this highlights the treatment of the elderly and other such things, but here is this kind of very everyday thing, which has a fundamental meaning on page 307. It has discussed the procedure of the City of Helsinki, when, in the view of the City of Helsinki, due to the shortage of doctors, it was not possible to carry out a comprehensive health check on fifth graders so that the doctor would have been involved, as required by the instruction. I will not go into more detail here, but that is the strong idea that what we have in the law as the duty of the municipalities must be carried out by the municipalities. The municipalities currently have a nursing deficit and a medical shortage; however, according to SVOL, the Social Welfare and Health Care Act, municipalities have different possibilities to organise services either in cooperation with another municipality by acquiring them or in cooperation with a hospital district. And that is where all the stones must be turned in order to guarantee citizens the services provided by our constitution and provided for in specific legislation. At the moment, perhaps the issue of maternity clinics is not the most topical at the moment, in 21 C.E., but there is a very worrying message from a very large number of municipalities, including my own, that the very basic issue of access to a health centre doctor has been seriously compromised at the moment: not even telephone contact, and the call back system does not work, and the queues are excessively long. I think it is very good that we have the Parliamentary Ombudsman
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u132	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u133	Mr President! Thank you again for the excellent report. This report could raise a number of issues, but I will stick to the situation of older people and people with disabilities again this year. To begin with, a few words about the restrictions in the days of the corona pandemic, which hit particularly vulnerable citizens. As stated in the report, the rights of the entire population have been curtailed in an unprecedented manner during the period of corona pandemic. Almost all fundamental rights and the rights of all persons have been subject to far-reaching restrictions. However, some restrictions have had fatal consequences, especially for people who are already vulnerable, such as older people and people with disabilities. For example, in some care communities, family members were completely prevented from meeting their loved ones, even though exceptional circumstances do not justify making such general decisions for all. In addition, personal rehabilitators were not allowed into all care communities for people with disabilities. Discontinuation of shift care caused excessive coping problems in family members. The situation was new, and a crisis of this kind had not been anticipated in Finland or prepared for it, and that is why it is important that we dare to critically assess the measures taken also from the point of view of the implementation of human rights. One of the questions to be asked is whether the restrictions on fundamental rights imposed during the corona pandemic were necessary and in line with the principle of proportionality. Such a critical assessment will help us to do better in the future if and when society faces future crises. Maija Sakslin states in this report that the findings of law enforcement already show that our existing legislation does not contain sufficient tools to cope with future pandemics. Mr President! According to the Ombudsman's report, even without corona, we still have much to correct in terms of the legal protection of the elderly and the disabled. Equal opportunities for the participation of people with disabilities will not be realised. There are shortcomings in the accessibility of premises, accessibility of services and the implementation of reasonable adjustments. Application practices for disability services in municipalities are heterogeneous and application guidelines may limit access to statutory services. Competitive tendering for the provision of services for disabled persons may have jeopardised the right to services that meet specific individual needs. Mr President! The report also raises concerns that there are still not enough places for improved service housing for older people. For example, in the case of memory sufferers, the boundaries of home care are met at a certain point, and even good home care will no longer secure safe and human living in your home. The inspections revealed that an elderly person could expect a vacancy in the Community of enhanced service housing illegally, e.g. in the wards of the health centre for longer than the law allows. According to the Social Welfare Act, services are always arranged primarily from the needs of the customer rather than from the needs of the organisation, and therefore it is also contrary to the spirit of the law to organise service housing, for example, so far from the local community that the next of kin does not have the opportunity to meet their relatives. Quality problems were also identified in the quality of the implementation of shift care in support of home care. Customers and relatives described shift care to keep in custody, although shift care should always be rehabilitative and facilitate the work of a family carer. Many issues culminate in the fact that there are too few staff and they do not have time to do quality work. Furthermore, management and staff do not have sufficient knowledge of the content of the legislation. In addition to the examples described above, for example, information that the law obliges elderly married and unmarried couples to live together and cannot act against the wishes of customers is still lacking. Mr President! There are also major problems with the exercise of self-determination in many care and care units or communities, and staff do not know, for example, what are the restrictive measures that cannot be used without special reason or consideration. In many places, control measures have become routine everyday activities. Restrictive measures can be totally unfounded, so-called institutional culture issues. The same problem continues to apply in part to housing communities for people with mental disabilities, although the amendment to the Act on limitation measures for special care for persons with mental disabilities in 2016 has improved the situation. There are also uncertainties, shortcomings and even omissions in the application of the law. Legal service plans and special care programmes are also not always drawn up or are insufficiently drawn up or delayed. Decision-making and implementation of decisions on services are also often unduly delayed. Mr President! These were just a few observations from the Ombudsman's report. Although there has been a lot of positive developments, we do have a lot to do to ensure that human rights are at least sufficiently implemented for all citizens. It is also appropriate to review the second phase of the reform of the Act on Elderly Services in the consultation. As the Ombudsman has also stated in his opinion on this bill, which is therefore not included in this document, this draft law in the consultation is, according to the Ombudsman, a wide range of possibilities for service providers and organisers to circumvent legal standards in order to save costs. This bill must now be carefully re-examined from the point of view that it will certainly improve the quality of care for older people and ensure that human rights are realised. Finally, Mr President, one example of the problems with the draft law. The Ombudsman's report also states that the guardian cannot perform the duties of health professionals. However, there is now a statement in this bill in the consultation that, for example, a person who has been trained as a guard could be in night patrol activity for the elderly to help the elderly. Guard training does not provide any capacity to assess, for example, the overall situation of an elderly person who has fallen at home or to face a person with memory problems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u134	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u135	Mr President! Again, I thank you for this excellent and interesting report. I would like to raise two points here which I particularly drew attention to: You have paid attention here today, in the name of the Government's projects, to the need to use national languages, Finnish or Swedish when it has been seen that English has been used. This is in itself a very timely observation, because the Government seems to be moving to English e-mails, gov.fi, and in fact Kotusk, the Finnish Language Centre, drew attention to this fact that it is not good administration, Finnish or Swedish should be used in Finland. Then, Mr President, on another point: housing services for people with mental disabilities. The Ombudsman here describes the fact that last year five remote checks have been carried out on housing services for people with mental disabilities, and it is stated here that, on two occasions in the past, serious attention has already been paid to the need for staff to be present in the operating units. The Act on Mental Impairment should ensure individual care and other care for the mentally disabled, but unfortunately it still seems that the Ombudsman's screams on this issue also go to deaf ears. The situation is still that individuality is spoken of, but when we come to that housing unit, regardless of the type of customer and the type of treatment they require, the dimensioning will always remain the same. This is something that I do not think is being talked about enough. We have now begun to talk about the problems of care for the elderly and housing services for the elderly, but I think that this issue for the mentally disabled should be brought to the fore and discussed how to change this. I do not think it is appropriate if, in the so-called welfare society, we do not have about 50,000 people with mental disabilities, perhaps tens of thousands of them in housing services, to be able to provide adequate care for these people. I regard it as a particularly big problem and, to a certain extent, a disgrace. It is now the case that we have started to have such housing units of 15 people, which are often divided into three cells, but these three cells, for example, are supervised by one person at night, and yet there are serious sick people, such as epileptics, which can be many. In this respect, I would actually be in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u136	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u137	Madam President! Thank you for the Ombudsman's report, a clear one, and also for its clear presentation. First of all, it was interesting to hear that a record number of complaints were received during the interest period, but then, on the other hand, a good performance has been achieved, which means that there are no complaints over a year old without going through them and not taking decisions. On the other hand, the introduction admitted that the on-the-spot checks had been inadequate, and this was, of course, largely due to these corona restrictions, which could not have gone there on the spot. Of course, in the case of the Korona virus, which has been mentioned in its own paragraph in this report, all the restrictions on it can certainly be seen in hindsight and wondered what things could have been done better. However, it must be recognized that we were in the face of a rather great stranger when these various restrictive measures were taken. And as in the case of the Act on communicable diseases, when all this was discussed, could you say, the limits of the legal package and the various possibilities allowed by the law, the fact that during this pandemic we have had to consider a whole legislative reform or many of its additions which could not have been thought of in advance, because there was no provision for such a situation. And I think some fellow Member here, Könttä and Rantanen, raised such an overall reform. In the area of civilian crisis management, too, when we talk about these epidemics, we have to look at this adequacy of our legislation and see whether it will provide the necessary tools when it comes to this type of situation. At this point, where these judicial controls have been raised by subject group, the same way as the previous colleagues, particular attention will be paid to the care of the elderly and their observations and, on the other hand, to the rights of people with disabilities. Of course, with regard to care for the elderly, the growing fear is that this availability of care will be an increasing problem in the future. And now we have heard these alarming news about how, because of the lack of care staff, we even have to catch up with units. There will certainly be an increasing number of complaints of this kind in the future in relation to the lack of adequate care available. Unfortunately, these will increase. Of course, it is a good thing that the Commissioner for the Elderly, when his work begins, will certainly also be able to raise these issues in a preventive way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u138	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u139	Mr President! Thank you very much for the Ombudsman's report and its presentation. Finland is a good country. In international comparisons, we have long become accustomed to positioning in the top group. We are an example of a welfare state. However, Finland is not perfect or has no problems. It is important for the future of our welfare state that we are able to look critically at ourselves. The Parliamentary Ombudsman's activity report has mentioned ten key Finnish fundamental and human rights problems. Our future is largely determined by how and with what vigour we react to these shortcomings. In fact, it will continue to determine whether we are a state of justice and welfare. It is typical of these faults that they often affect a very targeted group of people. For many of us, they are outside our everyday lives. However, the shortcomings raised are not new or surprising, but have been discussed and reported for a long time. President! Finally, it is a question of the welfare state being measured by how it takes care of those who need support. These include older people, disabled people and children, as colleagues have mentioned here. In recent years, interest has, of course, touched us all. It brought with it fear and limitations. The restrictions often seemed to violate our rights. The interest took a lot of space and attention and it still does. Unfortunately, the disease has covered up a lot of things. However, because of the corona, we cannot turn a blind eye to the faults that have now been raised. A determined effort must be made to eliminate them. The work is often slow, and the paint seems to be a long way off, but it does not justify not carrying out the reviews of the grievances presented in the report. The slightest step forward is progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u140	Congressman Reijone is gone. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u141	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Ombudsman for this annual report, which is once again of high quality, as we have been accustomed to evaluating this report in recent years. In fact, this institution of ombudsmen, which works very effectively in Finland to support the Finnish rule of law, is a Swedish tradition of the European rule of law. I think its sprouts are already in the late 1800s. Today, the Council of Europe is the most important European organisation representing human rights, democracy and the rule of law, including the European Declaration of Human Rights. I know very well that it and the European Court of Human Rights, which operate from Strasbourg, are very important partners for the Finnish Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's office. It is visible in many, many ways and it is important to take note of this. This is a valuable export product even to European countries worldwide. Even within Europe we still have countries where there is no system of ombudsmen. There is much to be learned from one another from the practices that have emerged. Mr President! In this report, I would like to draw attention to a single point in addition to this general praise, and it relates to the same theme that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has raised here. It is very valuable that, particularly since 2019, the Ombudsman's office has increasingly focused on promoting and monitoring the rights of older people, older people and older people. We talk a lot about the ageing of the population. We are, as it were, concerned at the level of society as a whole about whether we have financial sustainability to absorb the growing numbers of older people. And true, in 1995, 14 per cent of the population were over 65 years old in Finland, 22 per cent today. It's risen from 750,000 to 1.3 million. So we really have a strong ageing population. But I would like to say right now that there is also a problem here, because we have created a problem for ourselves. Age discrimination is a genuine phenomenon. Age discrimination is reflected in many ways in this Finnish society. We have talked a lot about the marginalisation of digitalisation from generations, from other parts of this society. That is what many elderly people experience because they do not control cell phones, do not control computers, do not work in that world, and they have been left out badly. We also have other phenomena that show age discrimination. Among other things, polls are not carried out for people over 75 years of age. It is as if their stand is irrelevant when polls and polls are carried out. Here, too, you can see this age discrimination element. And, admittedly, Mr President, there are age-discriminating features in our pension system too, of course this famous folded index which maintains a system in which, legally speaking, we have the only group of pensioners whose income is falling. So they're getting poorer. These are serious and difficult phenomena, big things. And what is valuable now is that the Ombudsman's office and the Parliamentary Ombudsman have addressed these issues. It is not only now that it has been the main advocate when we have talked about the creation of a post for the Ombudsman for the Elderly. Now this government, this particular government, is doing it, and thank you for taking that step. However, in 2019, the Ombudsman’s office took on a temporary, temporary basis two officials, two experts, specifically increased resources to pay attention to the promotion and monitoring of the rights of older people. And these posts have been consolidated, as this report is now telling us, in 2020, when we will also have this key phenomenon, that is, age discrimination, now there are institutions that will follow that fundamental rights in Finland also apply to older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u142	Congressman Rantanen, Piritta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for this excellent report. It is eye-opening to read this, perhaps a little wondering how many of these announcements will not be made: what kind of mountain are we really talking about? Do you think our work would have been done when this book was very short? But I don't think the job will ever be finished. Very good examples have been used in this debate, such as the status of mentally disabled persons, access to a doctor and maternity and child health clinic activities. We still have news of inadequate levels of care and insufficient number of nurses. But when you read this report, no one can say that those things have come unexpectedly. I would draw particular attention to the record number of complaints and to the fact that processing times have, however, been kept under control. It's an excellent job. Not only our fundamental rights but also the control mechanisms have been put to the test by the Koronapandem. Today, therefore, we discussed the amendment of the Act on Diseases and the dismantling of measures to limit corona pandemics. On many points we have been able to say with a common voice that our legislation has not been prepared for this type of pandemic. On that point, the representative: Essayah mentioned it just now. It is very important that we be able to evaluate ex post the needs that our legislation needs to meet and it is easy to agree with the Assistant Ombudsman's idea that the interest rate has challenged our fundamental rights system in an unprecedented way. We must assess for the future whether the restrictions on fundamental rights imposed during the corona pandemic were necessary and in line with the principles of proportionality. And, if necessary, we need to be able to make changes in line with the clarity and clear roles of the authorities and to ensure that this house is able to react quickly to different situations. Thank you for this report and the interesting ideas it brings.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u144	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u145	Mr President! According to my calculations, this is the tenth report by the Parliamentary Ombudsman that I have been dealing with. When I started in this house, the Ombudsman's report found themes such as violations of the sovereignty and even the basic needs of the groups in the institutions and illegal situations relating to access to social services. Now, ten years later, well, these are still on the top ten, and it is a disgrace to this hall that we cannot correct the problems of human rights and fundamental rights that have been well known and which have been reported to us from year to year, from decade to decade. Human rights and fundamental rights are a constantly evolving institution, and it is quite clear that the perfect situation will never be achieved. If we did, we'd have to raise the bar again. But the fact that there are the same things year after year means that we are not doing our jobs properly here. I would also like to ask the Ombudsman: when things have risen in other parts of the world, where the link between environmental legislation and the implementation of human and fundamental rights for future generations has been raised, is there any indication that such reflection is also beginning in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u146	Like this. — We have now reached the end of this time for us, and I will give the floor to Mr Jääskeläinen for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u147	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to thank the Ombudsman for the speeches that have been made here to encourage the Ombudsman's Office to monitor legality and the exercise of human rights. I believe that the real questions here were only included in the speech by Mrs Mari Rantanen. The question was whether the Ombudsman’s findings and statements have moved forward and produced results. It related to the adequacy of staff in housing units for persons with mental disabilities. I could say that the Ombudsman's views in general are very well respected and, in fact, in those situations where the views are not followed, it is usually because the party to whom this statement is addressed has not been able to do so. These resource problems are perhaps a typical reason why the Ombudsman's statements may then not be able to be carried out. The Ombudsman does not have such far-reaching means — that is to say, the right of prosecution does exist, but the Ombudsman cannot directly intervene and give orders in the activities of the dwelling unit. The regional government office can even suspend the operation of such a unit if there are illegalities, but the Ombudsman does not have such powers. These resource issues are such difficult questions from our point of view. Of course, we are well aware of this. I could say that we have such a basic and human rights theme every year, and this year we have the theme of adequate resources for the authorities to safeguard fundamental and human rights, which is precisely what we are trying to do with this theme. These problems of older people have been much on the agenda here, and here too I could thank Parliament for giving us more resources to monitor and promote the rights of older people. That increase in resources is evident in our actions. Yes, as soon as we have more resources, we will be able to do more of that control. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u148	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings are thus suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u149	We will now resume the debate on item 11 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Debate, Mr Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u150	Madam President! Indeed, there is a Parliament Ombudsman's report for 2020. These have been good stories, these are quite a lot of things you can rely on yourself, and you can sort things out and get a legal perspective on the things people contact me about. Here in the book, [ The speaker is browsing the book in front of him] I have spoken to one of the lawyers today on this matter, and he felt in a slightly similar way that we have a system of child protection which unfortunately goes along as the train does, for example, does not take sufficient account of the parent's complaint or complaint. In some way, this is just an insurmountable job for me. I know that the Child Welfare Act is very good, but there is a shocking difference between how it is interpreted in different places or by different people. I myself am a specialist vocational teacher, and I have also been on the side of having to make these child protection declarations, and this has led to the custody of young people. I personally feel that these have all been necessary. But this is one of those... This is a difficult matter. I can’t even find words to describe it, but in some way, when someone makes a child protection report, someone makes a decision, then it’s heard, and it feels like those decisions have been made in advance. I was actually in this kind of negotiation or plan last week, where I was present to listen, and it was no negotiation. They dictated what had already been decided, and I think it is quite unjustified. There may also be such things that, for example, because of physical disability or because of the diagnosis of a possible inconspicuous or intellectual retardation, the child is taken away more because of its diagnosis. I do not believe that sufficient research or support has been provided to raise these children. So I'm also worried about Finland's economy. If it were possible to help children stay at home with such small support measures, the cost of child protection and investment would be avoided. This is amazing that a congressman feels powerless here when he does not know what he is doing, but the same words were also said by a lawyer who told him that he has tried, tried and tried and this train is just progressing and the soup is getting thicker and thicker. I must say to the Ombudsman that you are dealing with difficult issues, and here there are some good examples of this. I myself am so powerless that I do not even know where I should be talking about this. But I brought it up in this context because it relates to this book and the contents of the book. Another similar issue is animal welfare. It is similar to the situation that there is capable of some single veterinarian making decisions that animals have been treated badly. The doctor may even issue a ban on keeping animals, even though I believe that this is a task for the judiciary or for the district court. But these are very shocking situations for farmers if they feel that their stock of animals is being unduly affected. I have also visited this kind of space, and it is difficult to understand how such decisions have been made. I don't know, I guess everybody's trying to do the best...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u155	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u156	Mr President! We are dealing with a report on the activities of the National Pensions Institute’s authorised employees for the year 2020. As President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to raise a few points on this report in the form of a presentation. First of all, the structure of the activity report before us has developed further to open to readers more what has been followed by delegates in Kela's activities and how they have acted and reacted to the issues raised. The activity report is more informative than before. The delegates met seven times in 2020 for general meetings, all of which were held at a distance after March. The Bureau of delegates met 11 times, almost weekly in the early stages of the pandemic. The most important task of the delegates is to monitor Kela's management and operations in such a way that the quality and availability of Kela's services are taken into account. It is also up to the delegates to supervise all Kela's activities, but it is not up to the delegates to direct the other decision-making bodies of Kela in advance, such as the Kela Board of Directors. Councillors can contribute, for example, by asking for clarifications, making proposals or commenting on governance issues. These activities are usually subject to ex post controls and are focused on legality issues. This role and role of Kela’s delegates is often forgotten. At the beginning of the pandemic, the situation was difficult everywhere. At the same time, Kela’s task was to limit the spread of the disease by means known at the time but at the same time to safeguard Kela’s statutory activities and customers’ rights to services and support. I would like to highlight a few examples where this is most obvious. Example 1: Closure of branches and transfer of functions by telephone or network. Customers were directed to visit other service channels, i.e. online services, telephone services and telephone appointments instead of offices. Some smaller service points had to be closed, and some of the service points were converted into time reservations. Bureau members were particularly concerned about how services could be secured, especially for customers who had no telephone access. In the view of the authorised Bureau, the closure decisions were taken in a delicate manner so that Kela had not carried out an adequate assessment of the risks from a fundamental right perspective before the closure decisions. The Bureau wanted to ensure that the decisions taken in the event of a crisis took account of the risk groups and that the impact of the restrictions on services had been adequately weighed up and solutions had been sought. Another example is the suspension of face-to-face rehabilitation from the recommendation of the national government to avoid unnecessary movement, gathering and physical contact. The purpose of the rehabilitation limitation measure was to slow down the spread of coronavirus pandemic and to protect those at risk who are rich in Kela’s rehabilitation clientele. The notice sent by Kela recommended the use of remote rehabilitation in all services where this is possible. However, it turned out that for some of the patients in rehabilitation, the end of rehabilitation was a problem causing excessive personal suffering and that some service providers could have put their activities at risk, let alone completely ended. Kela adjusted its policy so that service providers were allowed to assess and inform their customers when face-to-face rehabilitation could be continued, and accordingly, customers were allowed to continue to assess whether they were ready to participate in face-to-face rehabilitation. Mr President! Although the main role of the corona pandemic was played in the activities of 2020, there was something else happening in Kela. Attempts have been made to start reforming Kela’s administrative legislation since the 2016 Director-General’s election, but the matter has progressed very slowly. In 2020 the delegates had an active debate with the minister responsible with the hope of forming a parliamentary working group to review the necessary legislative changes. The aim has been to update the provisions concerning Kela's tasks and organisation to reflect the current state of affairs. However, it was not until 2021 that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health set up such a parliamentary working group. The council members have closely followed, among other things, the experiment on the registration procedure for rehabilitation, taxi journeys replaced by Kela, decision-making practices for disability benefits, risk management and, of course, treatment periods for benefits. Koronapandemia had a very comprehensive impact on Kela’s operations. The workload increased, there were changes to the legislation on benefits, the focus of the channels of service changed, financial challenges became, and staff moved widely to telework. Kela’s customer service had to be organised quickly in a completely different way in order to ensure the health of both staff and customers. For applications arriving in Kela, the target times are set, i.e. target times, where applications must be resolved on average. The objectives have been set on a benefit-by-benefit basis. In the case of basic income support, general housing allowance and unemployment security, the achievement time targets are statutory. In other benefits, the objectives are set by Kela itself and based on contracts with service providers. Understandably, the interest rate situation has increased the workload of the staff, and it is understandable that delays cause both concern and concern to customers. Although an exceptional year challenged the well-being and well-being of personnel, the indicators of well-being at work developed positively in the personnel barometer surveys. In addition, the Reelers felt more strongly than before that they could influence their own work. Mr President! Benefits expenditure on social security managed by Kela totalled EUR 15.9 billion in 2020. Compared with 2019, growth was 6.7 per cent. Operating expenses amounted to EUR 546 million. And, Mr President, at the end of the day: It is noteworthy that when making changes and additions to Kela's operations and benefits by legislation, the necessary time for implementation must be taken into account. Good synergy has been observed in the network where the point has been abandoned and the activities have been combined with the municipality and the TE Offices under the same roof. In particular, however, I would like to express my thanks to Kela's staff for their hard work in 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u157	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u158	Mr President! We decision-makers receive a great deal of information. Public administration in Finland is about EUR 100 billion, and when I say this figure, it covers central government, municipal government, pension insurance institutions and Kela. Now, in this Annual Activity Report of Kela’s delegates, the core activity of Kela is again very well summed up. Another document that I have used to use a lot in the past is this Statistical Yearbook of Kela, [ The speaker shows the book he holds in his hand] I would like to raise a few points here. This is mainly a reference, but I would like to do so because I am very pleased that we are getting these figures in such a concise form. In fact, the chairman of the delegates, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo, referred to these benefits expenses of Kela. It is here on page 65, which is EUR 15.9 billion. Of this, the largest amount is health insurance benefits, 4.5 billion, the second largest are pension benefits, and the third is in fact housing allowance, which is, of course, divided into general housing allowance and housing allowance for pensioners, a total of around EUR 2 billion. Unemployment benefits also amount to EUR 2 billion. — I do not list all of these here. A little more detail about health insurance benefits: That is why it is very timely that we now have this parliamentary group on multi-channel funding in health care and, more generally, in social and health care, and we will then consider these issues. Now, of course, I am not going to give any guidelines or even my own thoughts on the work of this future working group, but it is very good to be aware that, in fact, the amount of Kela's medical benefits, which are often referred to as medical fees, dental fees, research and treatment, i.e., in practice, imaging, physiotherapy and laboratory services, has fallen to a very low level. I was just looking at some of the figures in this yearbook I just showed, which has a longer time trend. In 2012, the compensation for dental care amounted to EUR 120 million, now only EUR 40 million, i.e. I would say that the biggest individual cuts in social security that have been made in Finland have been cutting the compensation for dental care, Kela, from level 120 million to level 40 million. The amount of medical fees has dropped from about 75 million to 50 million, and then this study and treatment peaked at 65 million, and now it is less than 40 million. So, all in all, these are the fees for research and treatment. Then, of course, travel expenses themselves,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u159	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u160	Mr President! Thank you to the Chairman of the Social Insurance Institution for the good presentation of the Annual Activity Report of the Social Insurance Institution. Kela is an institution under the authority of the Parliament, supervised by the elected representatives of Parliament, and this activity report is the key instrument in which this monitoring is carried out, and it is very important that this report receives the attention it deserves. The fact that EUR 16 billion is the benefit paid by the Social Insurance Institution came to light. Almost 80% of it comes from the state budget. The role of Kela has changed very much: a lot of benefits and tasks have been transferred there, most recently student health care. I would like to thank the delegates for their good work, and I would now like to draw Parliament's attention to the importance of monitoring the Social Insurance Institution. And when this report, according to the procedure, goes to the committee of responsibility, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I would like to say here, Mr President, that I too am the delegate of Kela, that I think it is important for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to consider asking for opinions on this. The Audit Committee has said this in certain years, but last year, as a result of the interest rate, that opinion was not requested. It is very important that this report is carefully reviewed. The form of the report has been changed according to what Parliament has hoped for, and most recently, under the leadership of Slunga-Poutsalo, what is the role of the delegates has been highlighted, and he has raised this very well in his speech. I think it was commendable. Thanks are also due to Kela’s employees for their good work. It's been a long time since the Korona era. And I am pleased to say that during the last period, when I was leading the Kela delegates, Mr President, we carried out a study on how the legislation of the Social Insurance Institution, which is very old-fashioned and which is lagging behind, should be reformed so that relations of competence are in place. That report has now been made, and now there is a parliamentary working group in which we are working on that work, and I really hope that the government will bring the legislative proposals in such a way that this Parliament can deal with its legislation in order to ensure that Kela is in the best position to act. And, yes, here I say that I hope that the government parties will consider that the Social Insurance Institution will not be completely forgotten that the areas of welfare that can be made centrally at national level in the Social Insurance Institution will not be transferred to welfare areas. This now goes beyond this report, but it is important to do so in this context. The Social Insurance Institution is an important institution and it would certainly be worth setting up if it did not exist — for example, national reimbursements of medicines are a sensible policy. But I really hope that this gets the attention it deserves. And perhaps, Mr President, as a long-standing parliamentarian, I would like to ask myself how these reports could be given even greater attention in the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u161	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u162	Mr President! Just as the previous Ombudsman’s report, the Kela Ombudsman’s report deals largely with the year of the corona and how that epidemic has been reflected in the activities of the Social Insurance Institution. It has been well pointed out here that, first of all, the need for that increase in staff and additional labour was quite obvious when new legislation, new preferential procedures came at a very rapid pace, and then the number of old-time beneficiaries also increased very sharply, for example because of layoffs and the rise in unemployment. The unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs was such a new element, and then, on the other hand, the payment of various infectious sickness allowances and sickness allowances required more benefit handlers, and of course it also appeared in the increased payment rates of these basic security benefits. On the other hand,it is also well pointed out that there was a lot of ‘saved’in a sense,that is to say,in the root of dental care, rehabilitation, interpreting and occupational healthservices,but unfortunately,there was also aconcern that the issue ofthese savings was also raised,that this would be paidin the future with a low rate of interest,just because,in many cases,people left a In that sense, perhaps I was thinking a little about these figures raised by Mr Lindén, about which he said that they would show that this was due in some way to a reduction in the need, if I understood the honourable Member's comment correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u165	Congressman Reijone is gone. — Mr Rantanen, Mr Piritta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u166	Thank you, Mr President. This Annual Activity Report of Kela’s delegates is indeed a big information package on the whole of Kela’s operations. There you can easily find information about the effects of the interest rate on the increased workload of Kela's benefits, and good indicators can be found on the whole of Kela's activities. Perhaps it could be used as such as a guide more than we have been able to do, and that is what Mr Sarkomaa said a little bit about this, that this should be given the value he deserves in our work as well. However, I would like to pay attention to how Kela has taken over the IT activities very well. There were speeches here about how it has not been simple that Kela’s employees have moved to telework. But if we move on from the idea of fundamental rights, despite teleworking, secure work is possible for all Kelans. Other actors in the state could also have a lot to learn about Kela’s innovative ict skills and thinking. Operational reliability, agility and reliability of software are extremely important features. For example, when welfare areas start, patient information systems will be combined in the areas. I believe that Kela could have much to offer in this area too. And if I myself think, as a result of police activity, that the arms licensing system has been attempted for years, then Kella has succeeded in these ict matters. I therefore hope that cooperation with the various actors in the state will be possible in these areas as well. Thank you for an excellent report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u167	Thank you. — Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u168	Mr President! A few comments on the role of Kela's delegate: First of all, a corona. Kela survived, one might say, exemplaryly from the parts of her activities concerning Kela's own administration or bureaucracy. Of course, there were all kinds of adjustments, but considering how massive a parade was involved, how quickly changes had to be made and how many people’s affairs were caught up in them, everything went amazingly well. Instead, the interest rate pointed out that Kela does not have a strong sensitivity to how customers who are not at the end of these normal contact devices are able to access the Kela services. By this I mean, in particular, former income support customers in municipal social services, which historically have not been Kela's customer base and which were not properly taken into account at the beginning, but quite a lot of torque was needed before it was possible to guarantee that income support would actually work in Finland even under interest rate conditions. And this is something that I am sure will have to pay attention to in the future how this sensitivity — when it comes to such a large institution and so specific situations for individuals, and yet we are so at the edge of the gap in many of them — can be created in that big bureaucratic system. Another thing I noticed last year in connection with the granting of sickness allowances for people with substance abuse problems: Kela does not have a very good ability to take into account the existence of discriminatory structures in its own system when they are more extensive than only dependent on Kela's activities, i.e. because of the fact that applications for sickness allowance for people with substance abuse problems were rejected considerably more than on the basis of any other diagnosis, partly because of the structures of our social and health services, partly because of Kela's practices. And in practice, even though this problem was discovered, there was no response to it at all — no way was found of taking the matter forward, and that problem is still unresolved there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u169	Thank you. — Representative Nurminen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u170	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on this report by the Social Insurance Institution. Of course, the interest rate is something that has stimulated Kela's operations, especially last year. For my part, too, I would like to thank Mr Kela because, in a very difficult situation, we have had to build flexibility and respond to the need for legislative change. In a completely exceptional situation, Kela has been able to handle the service and livelihood of many disadvantaged people quite well, or in fact excellently. Special thanks to Kela for that. I am also a Kela delegate. There have been good comments here about this corona year, and perhaps I myself would like to raise the quality of the operation of this telephone service. Especially when we have had to close many service points, however, we have been able to secure people's access to services and have been able to make decisions by telephone. Good feedback has also been received from people, and everyone who has needed personal service has also been able to provide this with an appointment, so in this difficult situation we have tried to take into account both health safety and the realisation of fundamental rights from the perspective of people. Then, in a certain way here, Mr Sarkomaa raised this Kela law and its reform needs. Kela’s delegates have highlighted these need for legislative reform. We have a parliamentary working group currently under way, and there are many members of this working group here. I myself am the chairman there, and we are promoting and we have a very good-spirited group to take forward this whole package of laws. I personally believe that these long-awaited presentations by Kela will now be brought forward and then put into practice. Such ideas, Mr President. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u171	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u172	Mr President! I asked for a second floor only so that there would be no doubt about what Mrs Essayahkin has already asked me about and then to which I am informally commenting. So what happened last year was largely due to the corona. And as the report shows, medical fees have fallen from 55 million to just under 50 and dental allowances from 48 million to 44 million. But what I was talking about was not actually this at all, but I was talking about the longer trend since 2012 when the dental allowance was 116 million. And this reduction has not occurred in any way through a reduction in use — the need for use is greater than ever — but through a reduction in compensation. At the time, when approximately 30 per cent of the dental visit, the average price of which was 250 euros, received Kela compensation, approximately 10 per cent is currently receiving it. For medical fees, which currently have an average price of between EUR 80 and EUR 90, this compensation is hardly more than 10. Well, of course I know now that someone might think that I am now in favour of these compensations being significantly expanded and increased here. I just wanted to point out that it makes sense to think about what this money is being spent on: is it actually of greater benefit to those who need services through well-being areas, or is it still of significant benefit when the level of compensation is so low? The real benefit would come only if these Kela compensations were significantly higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u173	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u174	Mr President! So, Mr Lindén, that's how you can talk about a well-incomed person, that's how you can talk about a person who is in occupational health care, a person who has received all the health services. But the average Finn who is there in the health centre line and who often does not get a doctor in many municipalities, which is very common — as you said in the previous report — often has to use private health care, and then even the small amount of health insurance is very significant. That health insurance allowance is used by different people regardless of the level of income. We have a lot of services in the compensation that public health care cannot provide. Our entire health care system is based on the fact that half the people are there in private oral health care, because the public authorities do not even have that capacity. And the worst thing that could be done about public health is to abolish this compensation. On the contrary, it would be worth raising it up and introducing a national service voucher, especially when we have a large amount of care debt, as the World Health Organisation has said, for example, that that nursing debt may make you sick and cause more premature deaths than a corona. And in that sense, in connection with the report by the Social Insurance Institution, I think it is extremely bad that, for example, in the Committee on Finance, we received the basic documents that officials have produced under the authority of the government and which would even make reimbursements for medicines for welfare areas. It is important that when the parliamentary working group starts to work, that we start from the very beginning and together see how we go forward, that we do not come up with these documents prepared by the ministers, which in any way do not correspond at least to the view of equal health services expressed by the assembly. And, Mr President, I would like to say that we had a large rehabilitation committee with a large number of experts and a few Members of Parliament, and I was among those Members of Parliament. We unanimously stated that the rehabilitation of the Social Insurance Institution will not be transferred to welfare areas until the well-being areas are operational and it can be assessed whether they are in any way able to accept rehabilitation. And if this common expert view is also being broken, this government reform of social services will cause far more harm than benefits. I very much hope that the parliamentary working group will keep its senses involved. And I would also like to say that the authorities of the Social Insurance Institution monitor the functioning and the administration and legality of the Social Insurance Institution. We are on a very important issue. In other words, Parliament supervises the Social Insurance Institution, which is why this report is very important and it is important to get to know it. And when the Committee on Social Affairs and Health gives its report, it is an important report. I very much hope that the Committee on Audit will be asked for an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u175	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I am sure this is the case, however, that Kela has maintained its ability to function in this corona transition, which is fine, but on the other hand, I would like to raise the issue of the functionality of telephone services, the other side of it, the inaction of what has been there from time to time, and then its pricing and pricing criteria, what is there. It is also worth being critical of what is said. I'm bringing this up now, perhaps more specifically to the councilmen. And even before the corona — the customer service points have, of course, been closed — there were also some points, and it is still very difficult to get in there, and it is not nice to wait in the rain for your turn to get there. Of course, I understand the safety aspect of the service provider if it is to be emphasised. Then, as one of the issues involved in this reform, I would like to see Kela's delegates also focus on the capacity of these employment funds to act as service providers in the Kela network. There are additional benefits paid by the employees themselves, which they pay for themselves, and now Kela has passed on more and more costs to these employees, and in decision-making, where certificates are required, Kela does not... Could you say that I have had the understanding from four different cashiers that Kela purposefully wants to make the work of occupational disease funds more difficult by adding costs to them and various services from information technology have been transferred to these employment funds, even though they treat people from employment funds in exactly the same way as Kela's office. In other words, we still have something to do, and I hope that this parliamentary working party will then go ahead and clean it up openly and do its work in such a way that we can move forward. This has not been any pleasant news that people are unable to apply for an adjustment to wrong payments and are thus left without that benefit, which is meant by the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u177	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u178	Mr President! Unfortunately, I had to ask for a third speech in this debate because it was quite personal when people started to point at me and say that this is how a well-earned person speaks. That is certainly what I am, but that does not mean that I cannot take a stand on these matters, and I think that this is because the previous government, the Sipilä government, cut the Kela compensations by the numbers I gave you: private medical compensation from EUR 75 million to EUR 44 million, dental compensation from EUR 116 million to EUR 40 million, and research and treatment compensation from EUR 65 million to EUR 40 million. That was my point, not my own money to use health care, including private service. But then, as a second point, a slightly more positive question. It is very good that Mrs Myllykoski raised the role of this fund in the workplace. I always warm up positively when it comes to job funds. Those years when I was doing a practical doctor's job in industrial places, in Pori and Turku, I saw in practice their importance, especially in the big industry, and there has been little — well, little — worrying development in the role of these employment funds. And this spring we had a bill there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which to some extent touched on this issue, but, of course, did not take a big position on it, but there was also a debate on the role of these funds. I'm glad you brought this up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u179	Thank you. — And Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u180	Mr President! A few more technical tasks that we will have to consider at the Kela Council in the future. First of all, it was only during August that information reached my own ears that not all prepaid subscriptions are able to call Kela because it is a chargeable service number. Although those charges are at the level of general service prices, it leads to not everyone getting into Kela with their phone, and something must of course be done about this. Another issue that may have arisen during August, perhaps through Afghanistan, is that now that Kela's information systems, I hope, are being urgently renewed because they are beginning to be at an antique level, we are also thinking about the possibility that the administration might fall into the hands of someone who does not want to provide all the personal data collected in Kela's data. How is it possible to secure them in such a situation when, for example, an occupying man or someone else is taking over the Finnish administration, including Kela? In addition, let me make it clear that no one will have the wrong idea. Mr Sarkomaa is quite right that people with low incomes also use private health services, but it is quite clear that use is marginal. So when we look at statistics, there is a linear correlation of income with what health services use and access to health services. In other words, the rich use private services, in between they use occupational health services, and the poor use public health services. And access to public health centres is not so difficult because they are public — special care works quite well in public — but because all those who decide on the money use the private services. So, in my opinion, the best way to get our health centres in order on the public side would be to oblige MPs and municipal politicians to use them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u182	And the chairman of the delegates, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u183	Mr President! Thank you for this good debate on this report by the delegates. I hope that this debate will continue because we are dealing with very important issues. Just a few comments. Representative Kontula raised an important issue regarding the payment of prepaid calls when calling Kela numbers. This has been explained on the Kela side, and here are a few solutions, some of which are in our hands here. In other words, can the legislation affect operators' activities in such a way that they can call Kela free of charge? But this is therefore dependent on the activities of the operators and on whether we can be forced to do so by law. The second then, if this is not possible, is a completely free phone number for Kela. It will cost a little bit of money, which should then be taken into account in Kela's budget in the sense that 2 million calls to Kela every year are not quite free. So the operating expenses that Kela has would increase, and we would then have to make sure that there is also room for this. These are the things in our hands that we can contribute together. Thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u184	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u185	Mr President! Two government proposals on the European Stability Mechanism are under discussion today. Both contain material to take Finland into deeper integration with the EU. When I was elected to this house in 2019 and when the work started here, it was shocking to see how, with almost every government proposal, we are making our laws acceptable to the EU. This is exactly what today's performances are all about. Such action does not stand the light of day when viewed from the direction of the Constitution. Clearly, the government is directed from outside Finland, and it will not last for daylight either. Ladies and gentlemen, and the good government, how dare you ever celebrate Finland's independence again if you keep on giving it away and piece by piece? We must stop this unpatriotic activity and begin to respect the Constitution. My fellow citizens of Finland! This is a very dangerous situation, leading one step at a time to a situation where both Finland and Finland no longer exist. Go back to our People's Party. Once the VKK is given a strong enough mandate, we will restore this great country to our constitution, and then we will no longer make our laws suitable for the EU or for other foreign parties. We will make our laws and agreements good for us Finns from then on. We will also then leave the EU, because we have never legally joined it. Mr President! The VKK accepts free trade in Europe, but not an EU-Federal State. The VKK has been created to restore Finland to a constitutional, independent country. The EU Treaties are constitutionally void, and all other non-constitutional treaties will be reset when the VKK is in power. I would now ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be on the right side of history, to come to the side of truth and the Constitution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u186	Congressman Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u187	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we must be surprised that we do not have a minister present when it comes to a very important law and, you might say, a legislative package. I hope that in this context the President will allow this government proposal to be forced to include 100 in the 99th Government proposal, because we would not be making these changes to these European Stability Mechanism rules if we were not to promote this early introduction of the resolution fund. That is why there is a slight overlap between these two issues. But it is indeed a legislative package comparable to a recovery instrument and, in a similar way, a proposal that deepens solidarity. A prerequisite for a functioning monetary union and economic union is that common rules are respected and that economic development is based on the individual efforts of each region, and its market discipline should also function. But monetary union will only be able to operate sustainably if these Member States return to the Stability and Growth Pact. In that sense, it would also be necessary to restore the importance of market discipline in the development of EMU. Unfortunately, however, the opposite is now true, as these two government proposals tell us. In view of this stability mechanism, which is now the latest backstop for this resolution fund, this is, in a certain way, watering down the basic idea of this banking union as a whole. In other words, the basic idea of a banking union is to differentiate between states and banks. Now that we are turning the European stability mechanism into a last-minute backstop, a surprise, that is where the responsibility of the Member States goes back. As stated in this government proposal, when financing these financial support programmes from the European Stability Mechanism, it will not have any direct budgetary implications for Finland, because of course the ESM will act in accordance with the paid-up capital that Finland has paid in and will obtain the necessary funds by issuing bonds. However, as it says here: ‘Programmes, however, raise the economicrisks of the ESM’s supply of goods. In this case, the risks of the Finnish State will also increase indirectly.” And in the same way, when we look at this, why is it so much more comfortable to rely on the ESM, which works as a last resort for the banks and, in this case, very possibly for the banks, then, the government’s proposal clearly states: ‘According to the ESM’s calculations, the countries receiving ERV and ESM’s financing aid have saved a total of EUR18,2 billion in debt management costs by the end of 2019. Significant differences in the cost of financing and the length of loan periods have led to long-term exposures to other euro countries, as the beneficiary countries do not have an economic incentive to pay back significantly cheaper financial support than market-based financing early. Incentives for repayments mainly relate to reputational disadvantages and political pressure.’ So now we are here on the side of the Banking Union, through this last backstop, to open up the same thing, could you say, a cheap money tap, which mainly involves a political disadvantage and a small political pressure to repay but not at all the market discipline that a functioning area of economic and monetary union needs? The Christian Democrats see that this stability mechanism should be seen as an arrangement between the Member States and its central decision-making method should continue to be based on consensus among the Member States. After all, in this case of emergency proceedings, where changes are being made in this ESM agreement, it is possible for Finland, for example, to be paid for, to be held liable for decisions it would have voted against. In its opinion of 2011 the Constitutional Committee states that, since such a separate emergency fund has been set up, as with this fund, we can then ignore these state-law duubios in this matter and consider that even in such a situation Finland may be in a position to accept this clause in the emergency procedure for this amendment. In this proposal, the Christian Democrats see the risk that we will have to pay first of all for the failing banks in southern Europe as customers of the banks, because the risks in the banking sector in these banking union countries still vary greatly. Many Member States also have inefficiencies and overcapacity in the banking sector, and it is quite clear that banks will be driven down in the coming years. This is illustrated by the fact that the Germans have been very eager to promote the idea that this resolution fund could also drive down such small and medium-sized banks, and certainly not just focus on such systemic banks. In addition, the corona pandemic has brought a great deal of such exceptional uncertainty to this situation, which has certainly not yet been sufficiently addressed. There are a wide range of fluctuations in the world economy and they can quickly be reflected in the stability of the banking sector, so the time at which the government now wants to promote this early introduction, which then really requires this change in the rules of the stability mechanism, is as bad as possible. So under no circumstances should this have been done in this situation. First of all, the precondition for this risk-sharing must be adequate risk-reduction. Demergers and mergers of non-viable banks must first be dealt with. Similarly, prior to the joint deposit guarantee of banks, banks need to be brought to even the same baseline level for their condition. The completion of the Banking Union should not take place at all costs. And it should be noted that although the Government stated in its own report: [The President knocks ] on this risk reduction, that, on the basis of the estimates presented in the report,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u190	I would just like to say that this timetable has been agreed for everyone to be able to speak in turn. You can talk as much as you need, but alternately and in time for what has been agreed. You can't take someone else's speaking time because you're standing here. — Mr Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u191	Mr President! When discussing a banking union, it is worth remembering the whole to which this proposal relates. Now, with the corona crisis, we have more and more uncertainty in the economy. We see that the economy is growing, but the question arises as to what this crisis has done for the stability of our financial system, for example. That is why it is important that, if ever, measures are taken to prevent the banking crisis and the economic crises that result from it. We know that the cost of economic crises is high. The economic crisis in the United States in 2008 and the economic crisis in the EU region that followed it were particularly costly for the most vulnerable, young generations, for those who then entered the labour market and suddenly found no jobs available. And because of this enormous human cost and the economic cost, it is absolutely essential that we do everything we can to combat economic crises. With regard to this theme, the strengthening of the Banking Union, the Committee on Finance has debated and we have asked the question whether this proposal would prevent or increase the possibility of a banking crisis and an economic crisis, the systematic response of the majority of experts has been that it is precisely to prevent bank crises and prevent economic crises — thus preventing the enormous costs and disadvantages associated with this type of crisis and, unfortunately, the likelihood of such crises has increased rather than diminished with the interest rate. That is why, especially now, for those who will enter the labour market in the coming years, especially for the most vulnerable, it is absolutely essential to focus on this prevention of economic crises, and that is what this package is doing. It should be borne in mind that this package is not, however, the only development that is taking place in the area of our financial system. At the same time, controls are being stepped up, we are seeing more closely that the relationship between states and banks is being dismantled. Let us see that when we have that many small domestic banks across Europe, their collapse would not pose a huge systemic risk. Then such banks can be allowed to fall. Instead, with the integration of banks, we have an increasing number of banks, such as Nordea, which is domiciled in Finland, whose collapse would be a huge systemic risk. It is in the interests of all of us to prevent the collapse of such banks and, if they threaten to collapse, then come to help. This is precisely the way to prevent the enormous costs that bank crises and economic crises could bring. I would stress that, with the integration of many Finnish and Nordic banks in particular, preparing for such a crisis is also in the interests of Finland and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u192	Thank you. — My representative, Mr. Kulmun, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u193	Mr President! Of course, it would be desirable, as Mr Essayah has said here, that we could also discuss this issue with the members of the Government, because this of course also gives rise to a broader reflection on developments in relation to the euro. But, of course, it is understandable that the ministers are in a budget debate, but perhaps this will be an opportunity for us at another stage, because these are things that have been in the hands of every government during the last parliamentary term. And I must say that this government proposal No. 99 was a good reminder of the history of how these had gathered for us. And indeed, for example, those capitals and repayments of the EFSF loan to Greece: Greece is still not paying back its loan, but only adding interest to the loan capital until 32 C.E. This, too, is a reminder of the debuts that have taken place here a decade ago. I am sure that the next paragraph will deal with that single resolution fund, and I will take another floor. But with regard to the ESM agreements, which reflect this next point and also this broader debate, yes, as has been said in the Chamber in previous and other areas, the responsibilities of Finland's public finances, which also come from the Eurosystem, are very significant compared to the other Nordic countries here in the northern part of Scandinavia, and then, on the other hand, our industrial structure is such that we have significant loan guarantees which, in the name of employment, have certainly been quite good, but in view of the situation of Finland's public finances compared to other countries, I am, frankly, concerned about this very large number of responsibilities of ours, which is now also coming up in this government proposal. I am sure that the Committee on Budgets will go through this very carefully — and I hope that we will also be able to discuss the debatable situation which seems to be beginning in the euro area at all — how these fiscal indebtedness criteria will be managed in the future. And I do not think that the fact that they have not been complied with until now is a reason for them to slip away. Therefore, those countries that have pursued a responsible economic policy have been better able to cope with the interest rate crisis than those that have already been in debt before this crisis, so I hope that Parliament will also have the opportunity to hold a discussion on the direction of the Government on the issue of the change in debt criteria relating to the ESM, now that different EU and euro Member States are being thrown into the air all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u194	Thank you — Mr Vallin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u195	Mr President! This government proposal, too, looks like another step in the federal direction. Through the Single Bank Resolution Fund, banks in euro countries are already jointly and severally linked. It is imaginable that, in a crisis that is big enough, that cashier will not be enough to save the banks, and the ESM funds will be needed to save them. Therefore, a guarantee from the ESM is now being applied for to the cashier, i.e. a guarantee from Finnish taxpayers. We are told that not everything can always be said ‘no’. Finland almost doesn’t say ‘no’toanything that the EU Yes, the government and the assembly could sometimes, It is also claimed that this is a precise entity. That's what they always say until they're not anymore. Once a system for a common peak has been established, it will be possible to change its size and authorised uses if necessary, as is currently being done for the EU recovery package. I, too, am surprised that there are no government ministers here. Obviously there are other busy people, or they are afraid to respond to our criticisms.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u196	Congressman Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u197	Mr President! We know that the European Union has been a huge success story for our continent. The historically very warlike peoples of Europe have been brought together — on the basis of very concrete coal, cooperation from the coal and steel community — and, once European countries have been brought together to achieve economic benefits, European countries have really been able to create progressive societies on a global scale, making use of the market economy. In this respect, of course, this development over the last ten years has been worrying, that all the basic market economy laws that have been able to produce stability and prosperity for our continent have been abandoned as key principles governing European economic policy and have been replaced by more or less elements of a planned economy. In this respect, I am also concerned about these changes to the ESM, which contribute to watering down the basic idea of the Banking Union, as Mrs Essayah, for example, described in her speech above. Mr President! As far as these matters are concerned, I would really like to see committee deliberations calling for the return of a responsible market economy to European decision-making, with which we have succeeded in creating a successful forum for cooperation between the continent and the EU for its Member States. I am absolutely sure that by following those principles we will succeed in the future. Just as Mrs Kulmuni, the former Minister of Finance, described well in her speech, it cannot be that the countries that have stuck to the common agreements have done the right thing, then they will have to be paid for in a situation where it is thought that, since the other countries have not actually complied with the agreements, they will not have to be held on to them in the future. On the contrary, the European Union now clearly needs a stand-up movement to restore the confidence of Europeans in this very important forum of cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u198	Thank you. — I give one last speech to this stage. Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u199	Mr President! The issue we are dealing with at the moment is the Government's proposal to amend the 99 Stability Mechanism Treaty, and then the next item is the Government's proposal number 100, the Government's proposal for the transfer of the contributions to the Joint Crisis Management Fund and the related changes, which is shown on this paper and is readable to all of us. I would like to thank Mr Sari Essayah and Mr Kulmun as well as other contributions we have just heard — an excellent analysis of the situation. I have to admit that last night, when I was on my computer looking at the financial news of the day, the moment, the new Finnish article “The Future of the EU’s Debt Line” jumped into my eyes. This is the position of the European Union's Economic Commissioner, Paolo Gentilon. He took a position on how the economy is developing in Europe, and here is the title: ‘A clear message from the Isle of Religion to Finland: ‘The common instruments are both capable and willing’. And Gentiloni said... If the President will allow it, I will quote briefly: ‘Finland is responsible for imposing new debt discipline, since the beginning of the negotiations on the old-fashioned river. Economic Commissioner Paolo Gentiloni assures us that Germany too is aware of the situation.’ Here in the news — you can read it yourself on the New Finland website — it is quite clear that we have accepted common bonds, i.e. Eurobonds, and then we have already accepted the use of common own resources, i.e. the tax law of the European Union. These include 99 of this government proposal and 100 of the next one, the final nails are now being put into the coffin that rips the last euro out of the Finnish backskin and puts huge amounts of debt into our hands, which we cannot even see at the moment. But that would be reasonable. At least I'm used to something, like building a house or building a summer house, I've taken a debt that I know exactly how much debt has been taken into it and when it has to be paid. And now we are heading towards such a world and this change in the stability mechanism is a small step in the direction that we are taking on such responsibilities, whose edges and horizons and margins we do not even know. And, Mr President, I sincerely and seriously hope that the two legislative proposals which are now being sent to the committees in this House, the government's proposal, will go through those risks. It is now time, at the very latest, for the coordination of these risks to be done genuinely and sincerely: what we have committed ourselves to so far and what we are facing. This is not going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going to be hit with more burdens on our backs. That is where weak feet go from under this small nation when we are being put on the back of expenses that do not belong to us. There is no solidarity in Europe when the rules are correctly interpreted. I am extremely disappointed about this situation, and last night, when I read it and rethought it and read it again, I was getting worse and worse and I was not dreaming last night when I saw this. But it is a serious matter when Mr Paolo Gentiloni, a major Commissioner of the European Union, assures us that this kind of news is being announced and announces that we are now going to the Eurobonds and tax European citizens together so that these debts can be settled. This can't be happening. If this is the way to move things forward in this country, it will mean the end of the European Union and, for example, the end of the European financial system, the euro. This is such a serious place, ladies and gentlemen, that I have not yet seen such a thing in my humble parliamentary career, but it is now on the day of the beginning of the autumn season, on the first day of the plenary session on 7 September 2021. I am absolutely shocked that this is what we are going to have to deal with here in the Finnish Parliament. And since a few younger Members of Parliament in particular have spoken of the need to stabilise the banks, so, ladies and gentlemen, especially from that younger point of view, we are making such papers that you will have to pay for them for the rest of your life and very much. It's so serious. Perhaps older people will not have to pay that much when life is short, as we know, but for you, young, honourable colleagues, this is certainly very hard. And when that tax lord gets through the European Union to your purse, then the smile will freeze. I hope these things will be taken seriously. This is no small thing that can be laughed at in that café after the sitting, that we were doing well — not doing well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u200	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u201	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Finance must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. So this debate will end no later than 5:38 p.m. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u202	Mr President! Indeed, I am sorry — on that previous point, I had a ten-minute speech, but now I know that it is seven minutes and I have to stick to it. On this point, too, it is surprising that we do not have a government minister here to share the Government's views on this issue. I very much regret that the Marin Government has indeed contributed to solidarity, not only in the case of the recovery instrument, but also in this early introduction of the crisis mechanism, which we now have in this debate. As I described a little in my previous speech, we see, especially as KD, the risk that we, as a customer of banks, will have to pay for these failing banks in southern Europe. The fact that this arrangement will remunerate the fate of banks and countries is not the way to manage a banking union. The inefficiency of the banking sector in many Member States is a fact, and perhaps it may be a little surprising that Germany, whose economy is otherwise admired in Europe, in particular, has the overcapacity, inefficiency, the small sparse and landesbankens. It is clear that this kind of resolution is needed when this overcapacity is being driven down, just as it was in the past when we had a banking crisis in Finland, and that is what many European countries are still doing. In that sense, it is unreasonable that Finns, who have paid dearly for their own banking crises, are also indirectly responsible for the resolution of these puffed-up European banking sectors. And just as I said here, the particularly bad time for this early introduction is that there is now a lot of uncertainty in the European economies. We do not know what will be revealed after the corona, what kind of bubbles there may be. Various loan-paying moratories and others are running out, and after that, there may be a lot of ugly damage to the banks’ balance sheets. If we start sharing risks, it should definitely be a pre-condition that the risks be reduced first. In other words, these inviolable banks should be driven down and consolidations should be dealt with at national level first, and only then would it be possible to consider whether they could go into such a common guarantee fund, as it were, if all the banks were on the same starting line, so that we could actually talk about the fact that the relationship between banks and states was broken down, and then the ESM should not be made the last backstop. In other words, the original idea of the Banking Union was something to be welcomed in itself, but now, with these recent changes, it has been watered down. In that sense, this completion of the Banking Union should certainly not be completed under these conditions. At the end of the previous speech, I made a brief comment that the Government's own report, i.e. the report by the Ministry of Finance, stated that the risk reduction has not progressed significantly on the basis of the estimates presented in the report, but then, on the basis of the overall political analysis, the Government approved the early introduction of this reserve arrangement and the amendment of the guarantee payment agreement and also advocated the associated procedures for signing and ratifying it and the necessary amendments to the ESM annexes and guidelines. For example, when the financial sector has been asked what estimates this might give to the Finnish banking sector, what the net impact of this change, the early introduction, may be, if the financial position of Finnish banks in relation to other banks in the euro area is still judged to be better, as it has been, it is quite possible that these additional contributions to the banking sector in other countries could reach billions of euros. The financial sector, among other things, has spoken of a couple of billion euros. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, the Constitutional Committee has not considered it to be irrelevant for the whole of the Treaty and its constitutional assessment that it includes a transitional arrangement in the previous stages of this debate, which has taken place on that side of the large committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has repeatedly pointed out in its opinion that Finland's budgetary sovereignty should be protected as effectively as possible and that due to the specific features of the complex arrangements, Finland's responsibilities in these arrangements should not increase. And a word about this EFSF, of which the representative: My corner well reminded me that it is accompanied by these Greek guarantees in Finland. In other words, at previous stages of the proceedings, I requested further clarification from the Ministry of Finance, and it stated that if discussions on the transfer of EFSF support were to begin, the various implementation options and their impact on the guarantee arrangement for the Finnish Greek loan would be assessed in the same context. If the transfer were to take place, the validity of the collateral arrangement would require a renegotiation of the contractual arrangements with the Greek banks. So this is what it's all about. There is no Minister to answer questions when we would like to know what happens to Finnish Greek insurance. Although changes in Finland’s liabilities are limited by the contractual provisions on the limitation of liabilities and the reduction of the additional capital share as a result of the repayment of EFSF loans, the fact that these effects on Finland’s collateral arrangements have not been determined in advance must be criticised. Even during its committee reading, we did not make it clear what possible changes could be made to this financial situation. And I would like to continue to remind you of the same point that Mr Kulmuni has well said here that the guarantee liabilities of Finland's public finances in relation to our total production are among the highest in the EU countries. In that sense, when we talk about the risks of these additional responsibilities, they are much greater for us than for many other countries, because we have, for example, an industry in which we have wanted to provide significant guarantees in support of our own industry, so that we can then be able to secure the orders of our companies and others. But, Mr President, I am now so disappointed that I propose that the matter should be suspended and resumed as soon as we have:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u203	Thank you for your patience. Sorry to interrupt. I note that this matter will be suspended and resumed at a forthcoming session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u204	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u205	Mr President! In this context, this is indeed a European Union directive, the implementation of which should have been on 2.8th, and we are late in this regard. These regulations on alternative investment funds come directly from the European Union directive and, in this sense, it is necessary to promote this issue, unlike in these paragraphs of the Government's proposal, where it is absolutely necessary to present a minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u206	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Sjöblom, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u207	Mr President! The value of public procurement in Finland is as high as EUR 35 billion annually. Due to the high combined economic value, individual procurement decisions are also important choices. Their social impact must be carefully weighed. At present, the procurement law is based on the fact that the tendering body has to choose the cheapest and most cost-effective tender. The purpose of this bill is also to add to the procurement law the ethical and ecological criteria that must be followed in the procurement process. Public procurement is an opportunity for the state and municipalities to promote more sustainable and ethical business. Similarly, in the absence of an adequate ethical review, procurement decisions can at worst support, for example, activities that are ecologically unsustainable, that violate human rights or that violate workers' rights. Current legislation does not take sufficient account of the ethical aspect of procurement. In recent years, there has been a strong emphasis on corporate social responsibility, and companies have responded well. In addition to demanding corporate social responsibility, the state and other public actors must also be responsible for their procurement. In fact, public operators should set an example. The law currently in force on public procurement and concessions allows the contracting entity to set specific conditions for the execution of contracts, for example in relation to the economic, social, innovation, environmental and employment aspects of the procurement. However, this is not sufficient because the specific conditions are optional for the contracting entity and the binding provisions governing procurement decisions are limited to the overall economic advantage of the procurement. As much as 75% of public procurement takes place in municipalities, their role in defining the principles for procurement decisions is absolutely crucial. At the same time, it is clear that the ability of civil servants to make purchases under specific conditions of ethical judgement is very different. A large-scale increase in ethical and ecologically sustainable procurement will require legislative changes and it is therefore necessary to create an ethical criterion in the procurement law. Mr President! Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. Glaciers are melting, deforestation is accelerating, extreme weather phenomena are increasing and up to a million species are at risk of extinction as a result of human activity. If we do not manage to control global warming sufficiently, we will live in a world that is less secure, more unstable and more difficult to live in. Although Finland is a small country, it is vital that we play our part in climate change mitigation, that we set an example and create clean technologies that can also be used in other parts of the world. Finland’s goal is to be carbon neutral by 2035, and this requires significant efforts in all sectors of society. Public procurement plays a key role in the fight against climate change. Procurement decisions provide public operators with the opportunity to channel significant financial resources towards more environmentally friendly activities. Using the carbon footprint of the product and service offered by the company as one of the criteria for binding procurement decisions would contribute to achieving our national climate objectives. Mr President! New criteria for procurement decisions are also needed for the implementation of human rights. It must be ensured that public funds do not end up for unethical, exploitative or human rights abusers, and that the criteria must therefore also cover subcontracting chains. For example, it should not be possible to buy unethical work clothes. One fifth of the world’s cotton has been produced in Xinjiang, where China persecutes and imposes forced labour on the Uighur minorities. Under no circumstances, even in the framework of the procurement law, can we allow or accept this. We must ensure that no human rights are trampled on in any supply chain of a product or service. In this way, we encourage socially responsible companies to participate in tenders and support domestic entrepreneurship. Mr President! Adding ethical requirements to public procurement decisions would increase fair competition in our economy. At best, the potential of CSR companies will be strengthened. At the same time, domestic demand and the operating environment of domestic enterprises will be improved. The interest of responsible companies in public procurement would increase as realistic conditions for access to procurement and competitive tendering would increase. According to the study, public procurement is currently not sufficiently attractive for companies to participate in tendering. Strengthening ecologically sustainable and ethical procurement in legislation would provide predictability and clarify the procurement law. According to the survey, companies feel that responsibility is very important. Mr President! A number of important improvements were made in the previous reform of the Procurement Act. Competitive tendering procedures for public procurement were developed, law enforcement was strengthened and procurement was sought to be more accessible to companies of all sizes. The new law has been living with it for several years now, and the related development needs have been highlighted. It's time to finish this job. It has become clear that the possibility of setting specific conditions does not provide us with better public procurement, but we need to create an ethical, ecological and social criterion alongside the overall economic advantage. At the same time, the opportunities for Finnish ethical companies to participate in procurement will be improved and the conditions for domestic employment and economic growth will be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u209	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u210	Mr President! Mr Sjöblom has taken a very good and, in my opinion, open-minded initiative to develop procurement. Procurement is a huge part of our economy. The value of public procurement, as described above by Mr Sjöblom, is EUR 35 billion a year, and it is not a very small question of how this will then be directed towards developing our own economy as well as the productive activity in the various sectors. And, Mr President, there would be countless different points of view that we could discuss, but I would simply like to take up my own committee responsibility, namely food services in the public sector. If we look at this ethical and ecological set of criteria that Mr Sjöblom is proposing here to be included in the examination of the procurement law, that would certainly be appropriate. If we think that in Finland the ethical and ecological level of food production is definitely the highest in the world and at the same time in our public restaurants, it is now said, even if in garrisons or nurseries, schools, so on, that we can offer food that has been imported from all around us, from countries where, for example, cutting down the beak of broilers or cutting the pig's pig's meat is legal and quite commonplace in that food production. And in this respect, when Finland requires a much higher level of ethics from its own farmers, its food producers, it would be the least we could expect then to have the same ethical expectations for the food services produced in the tax euro. And by doing so, it would then, of course, channel this public money into domestic production, which would then strengthen entrepreneurship across the country and thus increase the security of supply of our own country, for example. In this respect, I hope that the committee could, without prejudice, examine this initiative by Mr Sjöblom and that legislative preparations in this direction could then be seen, for example, by the ministry in the future. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u211	In this context, I would like to say to paragraph 13 that it will be moved, that it will also be suspended, that it will be brought to the future, that you know who are perhaps waiting for the point that we do not have to wait for it to be discussed this evening. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u212	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Sjöblom's bill is a good one, but indeed, when we talk about referrals, I would like everyone to be involved in this committee, especially the chairmen, that we should be able to do a rather specific thing here. If this bill is taken and ethical stuff is required roundly and the ball is then thrown into the municipalities, then there they are surprised what is being done with the ball. The situation is that when there is such a competitive process going on, can the ethically ill-manufactured goods be offered in that competition at all or can be scored at different points. So, in reality, I understand this extremely well and I want to support this bill, but the fear is that it will move forward from this house as a tornado, and then it will never be as it is. There must be a great deal of investment in competitive tendering, so that it is clear what it will eventually seek, because in reality we are in an extremely difficult situation at the moment with regard to control. The Ordering Liability Act is being violated with constant input because there is no control in any way. I am quite sure that if we do not make enough money for this, then this is a bit of an empty bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u213	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u214	Mr President! This is, just as Mr Laakso said above, such a very supportive thing and as an idea good. Let's just hope that things move forward and that we can really think about what's ethical. Public procurement has taken this form of competitive tendering, and I would therefore understand that it is linked to this EU case and that public tax money, which is collected from our citizens, would effectively buy goods. Within the framework of my own committee, I have come across a few things like this, and I have been contacted about it and I want to tell you very broadly about the problem: Is it ethical if we have a company in Finland that has produced a product for the Defence Forces for a long time, and now as a transaction, it may happen that there is some estimate of what it will cost, especially if there is an option, and then it will be given to a public tender and the result of this public tender is that a few ten thousand euros order, which is significant to this small company in Finland that has been manufacturing this product for decades, will be lost to a company that is a Member State of the European Union that will then import the goods from China? Is it environmentally friendly, then, that a product made of Finnish raw materials in Finland gets a little bit of money: you are too expensive, you exceed this offer by a few thousand, and now a cheaper company from a Member State of the European Union will import this product from China? Is there something ethical about this? In all these procurements, we should try to take such an overall economic impact into account also in how it affects the employment of our own country. I have asked the Minister here last spring, and I must say that these answers to this,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u215	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u216	Mr President! Any proposal that is ethical, sustainable and fair is to be welcomed. Perhaps more to Mr Auto when sitting there in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I would like to remind you, however, that the Government's guidance is already based on what kind of food choices we make, that is to say, to organise events in favour of domestic food culture and production and the food industry and so on. So, yes, we have a common will. The same may be needed to take into account that the promotion of competitive know-how is also good at this point. Even today, we have opportunities to take into account local food, climate issues, transport, what kind of energy is produced, that is, we have tools, as long as we know how to use them. But what happens then, in terms of so-called industrial products and in terms of competition, is good to point out, because perhaps we are talking about the climate emissions produced elsewhere, about the status of workers, and that is important, because then we in the public sector would dare to raise the issue of how we are to compete for those services. That's a very good initiative. Let us hope that when it is dealt with, as widely as it has been pointed out here, we look at the whole and that, when something is said, it will be precise so that it will not just be left there as a sort of ball in the procurement of municipal and public tendering.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u217	Thank you. — Mr Sjöblom, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u218	Mr President! Thank you for these comments. Representative In this regard, Mr Autto raised the issue of the supply of food, and schools are also important in this regard, which means that competitions should take into account the fact that our children would receive healthy and clean food as close as possible. Then these concerns raised here by the representatives: Officials in charge of procurement definitely need training, and they must be familiar with the issues they make purchases from, and therefore are also able to assess that ethics and ecologicality. For example, after a carbon foot, you could put a good score on it, so it would be easy to count with these points if products come from other parts of the world or come from here. The carbon footprint is very easy to calculate today, so I agree that it is good to regulate precision when making that law, and I think there are a number of different ways to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u219	Mr Pierainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u220	Mr President! Yeah, as has been said here, this is a really good bill. However, I would like to point out in this connection that we therefore have, at least in my own municipality, such ethical rules exist in procurements. And then I also know municipalities who are also looking for local food for schools, which means that fish is a fish in Oulujärvi, for example, and it is taken very strongly. Everything about this. These transport costs are also ethical in a certain way at the moment when you think about the length of journeys you have to carry. Above all, however, I think this is a question of what has been said in my own region, namely the competition and knowledge of municipalities. So there's one thing, too, that you don't know how to define the criteria in such a way that that local producer can do it too. So it's just going like these big units-producing companies. It is very important, the criteria for tendering and the skills in the way in which it is put on the market. Today it is very important to use the Finnish one, if possible. It gives us, at least on the food side, very great opportunities and will also support producers in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u221	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Eestilä, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u222	Mr President! In time, an electricity market law was passed in this Chamber, which of course was designed to improve the security of electricity supply and thus to improve the security and economic activity of many companies, agriculture and people. Well, we did it. Even then it was known that it will be quite an investment project, and these investments, in reality, in real life, have been directed precisely at certain areas where there are long lead distances, electricity networks such as North Karelia, North Savo and Kainuu, and, of course, when these investments have been billions of investments, the fall has not fallen on the state that has imposed this obligation, but on the customers who live there. It is a good thing as such, but even then, if we want to be fair, we should have laid down the bill that I am presenting here, that is to say, we should have reduced the electricity tax in precisely those areas where the need for investment is real. There were a lot of companies that did raise electricity transmission prices, i.e. so-called tariffs for type consumers, but it was not based on any other than an administrative decision, so at least for the company that was able to do this without further investment, Christmas was at the time when the government decided to raise prices, but of course it was not this for the customers. The initiative proposes a reduction in the electricity tax in those areas which, under the electricity market law, have had to invest particularly heavily in the weather security of the networks. The requirements of the Electricity Market Act have created significant investment pressures, especially in areas where electricity networks are located in forested areas. This has, of course, led to higher electricity transmission prices and associated taxes. As a result, housing costs have risen and, in addition, the profitability of agriculture and business has deteriorated compared to the rest of the country. Lowering the tax to another tax category in a given region in Finland would reduce the transfer price invoice, because the electricity tax is calculated at the transfer price and above the transfer price. The electricity tax would be reduced to tax category II of Table 2 for customers whose electricity network companies have been granted a maximum extension under the Electricity Market Act to take measures to increase the reliability of the distribution network. The proposed amendment would reduce regional inequality and offset the burden of real network investments resulting from legislation. If we think about what these companies are, who have received its maximum extension, I do not know what the current information is, but when this bill was taken in the spring, this bill should have been dealt with even in theory in connection with transfer prices, so that it might have had some effect in the Committee on Economic Affairs, someone would at least have spoken in favour of it. At that time these were North Karelian Sähkönverkko Oy, Järvi-Suomen Energia Oy, Savon Voima Verkko Oy, Northeast-Satakunta Sähkö Oy, Lankoski Sähkö Oy, Parikkalan Valo Oy, Loiste Sähköverkko Oy and Torniolaakson Sähkö Oy. Then we would go to the so-called Swedish model, where there would be three different levels of taxation in Finland, or indeed two different levels of taxation, but certain regions and consumers, people and businesses there would be dropped to the lower tax category. I personally think this is reasonable. It is another matter whether political realism will then be carried out, but in fact I already did this bill a few years ago in the previous period. I renewed it now, and this moment is even better done with this kind of bill. This is because, at the moment, the government and ministers of the country are also negotiating on burden sharing regarding agriculture, transport and housing, and the more emissions reductions will be made there, the more, in relative terms, the regions that I am dealing with in this bill will suffer. Right now, this would be particularly fair and I do not think that the EU is going to oppose it, even if someone here may speak out that the EU is blocking it and so on. It has not prevented it in Sweden, but Sweden is our neighbour. This initiative, in my opinion, follows the social development and, as it were, would also make the state payer, so that not all customers affected by these high transfer prices and the differentiation of transfer prices in Finland need to pay all these transfer price invoices, the higher bills. And if I have understood correctly, this increase in housing and mobility and, of course, health care fees is quite a burden for many pensioners, especially when they live in their own house. Sometimes you even have to wonder how they cope with these bills with their small pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u223	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u224	Mr President! When representative Eestilä new to this bill, it was easy to write a name on it. Now, Mr Eestilä well described that this is the situation in which it is still good and perhaps also in line with the criteria of the government programme when it comes to making a fair transition. The basic purpose here is this: indeed, in the areas that Mr Estilä mentioned, even at the time when the legislation on the electricity market was first adopted, it was overlooked that the problem in the grid plan area is quite different from that in the sparsely populated areas where there are forest and rural areas. That burden was untenable at that first stage. Now it has been brought forward and forward. I do not know, then, whether it would have been necessary at the time when the law was last enacted to see which regions could gain an extended period of time, because they are quite different now. In some areas, the money has been raised and, as has often been said, its integration has perhaps been more important than what it has achieved. But the important point was that this bill should have been dealt with here in connection with the previous bill. As a result of interest, the legal initiatives of our parliamentarians are a little limped. We have had legal initiatives here on the corona or on-going legislation, but they were ignored because of the corona. For example, this one half hour would not have overturned our interest rate measures in this Parliament. However, it is important to note that when you create this kind of third class, then it would now be fair and the right solution for this moment. Although reforms have been made, this bill and its place is still there. Let us hope that in some way we can make further progress on this, perhaps precisely on the basis that this burden-sharing and transition is fair. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u225	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u226	Mr President! Electricity is, of course, a power that uses a modern welfare society, and in this sense, electricity is certainly needed at all times, but electricity as a driving force for a society should be affordable enough, so that households can use it safely in their everyday lives. And it is true that this huge project, which is really from there — must be counted back — is inherited from the past of the two parliaments, the investment in this weather-proof electricity grid in Finland, the financial burden on the most deprived electricity distribution companies is practically unreasonable. And in that sense, this bill by Mr Eestilä is justified in showing solidarity with people in areas where electricity is just as basic as it is here in the city, and we would extend the hand and ease this electricity tax. This is an important issue of justice, and in that sense it is wonderful that Mr Eestilä is persistently active in this regard. I remember that, even when this legislation was already in place, it was possible to credit Mr Eestilä with a number of concrete things that removed the most serious madness in that legislation from the negotiations with the officials and minister of the preparatory ministry, and it was indeed a saving of billions and billions of dollars for the electricity bills of the people in the province. But this is indeed a worthy initiative and, of course, I personally would see that the taxation of electricity should be reduced everywhere in the country, but this hand-out would certainly be a fine gesture in any case for these regions which are in the most difficult position to invest in the network.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u227	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u228	Mr President! Electricity transmission prices and electricity prices in general are the subject of intense debate in this country. Of course, the price of energy solves a lot of the cost of living and the profitability of companies, and it is absolutely essential for society that energy is affordable enough. We've cut the electricity transmission prices. Among other things, there were storms like Veera and Asta, especially in the Savo area, and I remember visiting a region in South Savo after the storm, and someone said if there was a break in the power lines. In practice, when it came to the area, there was not even a place where the power grid had been, when all the poles and all the wires were under the fallen trees. He didn't even see the place. Some devices had to start looking for where that electrical cord had gone to that house. This is where we came from when we passed the law to build these weatherproof nets. We put certain time limits there, and that then, of course, caused huge investment for the electricity companies, and that investment must then be put to death in a certain period of time. You just have to pay for it. Now those networks have been built, and it has then been reflected in the price of electricity. It is on the bill of every consumer. Mr Eestilä's bill is worthy. It must be carefully examined in committee, and precisely so that the price of electricity remains fair. It is very sad that, with this climate rush, we have gone to a situation where the price of energy is certainly rising. We have abolished domestic energy: for example, this hating of peat in this house has caused us to lose CHP electricity when we stop sharing peat and wood. In practice, it means that we will have electricity out of the grid during a very cold period. At best, CHP electricity is produced over high temperatures at nearly 3000 megawatts. I think 2850 was one of last winter's toughest colds. Of this, the share of heating of buildings is about one-half, i.e. 1500 to 1,600 megawatts of heating of properties in connection with district heating, and electricity is then the by-product. And now that you're gone, we're in such a mess that's extremely hard to deal with. We will then buy electricity from that Nord Pool for a huge price, and who will pay for it? Finnish citizen paying the electricity bill. We make decisions in this house without thinking where it leads, and then we do a triple damage: The second damage is that energy raw materials are driven from abroad. The money goes abroad, and worst of all, we spoil the climate when the truck rally from that Russia starts to go all the way to Oulu. So by our own decisions we have created this situation. Representative Eestilä with this bill is trying to mitigate this situation that has arisen,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u229	Thank you. — Mr Pierainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u230	Mr President! Yeah, this has now been discussed what has been done in the past and in what way the Energy Market Act has been amended in the early 2010s due to these storms. In other words, when there were these big storms, the Energy Market Act was amended, and these power plants or energy plants were then responsible for transferring the cabling either underground or as a surface to such a situation that there would no longer be any damage caused by the storms, power outages. That's where this whole thing started, and here's the result. And now that this Energy Market Act was amended in the spring, there was every effort to make it as low as possible. But the other side is that those who have had to invest significantly in these networks would have had problems with it through economic survival. For example, when Mr Eestilä mentioned Loiste, a company in Kainuu with regard to transmission networks, it would have faced a real challenge if it had been able to pay for the investments. And this was then a very large part of the fact that the Energy Market Authority felt that it was not possible to go down too low to take this price. But when you look at what is there overall — the sale of electricity becomes VAT, then the transfer becomes VAT, and then the electricity tax comes on — then there will be taxes all the way to the consumer. I've been blessing it myself. So when someone's 20s or 10s is on the electricity bill, then the whole thing runs there in seven, eights. It's going to cost me so much. If that bill were to reduce it somewhat, of course, it would always be home to the consumer. I would see it that way and support the idea that it would be good for these sparsely populated regions, where there are long journeys and where there has been a re-routing, the storm has been or the winter stint has been tested in any other way, i.e. we are in a very, very tight situation. Of course, I would have liked it to have been dealt with in the context of the Energy Market Act, it would have been easier, because there were other legislative proposals there then. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u231	And the initiator, Eestilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u232	Mr President! When, in time, we took this bill with Mrs Myllykoski — I forgot to mention her there, it is not just my fault —
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u235	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Mr Kontula, I will open the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u236	Mr President! The initiative proposes that the admission of prisoners to the prison library should no longer be denied in the form of sanctions as a result of a violation of rules that is unrelated to the activities of libraries. There are three reasons for this: Firstly, access to the library is a key cultural right. Secondly, the ban on the use of the library is apparently not considered to be a particularly effective sanction in prison because it has hardly ever been used. Third, reading and studying are the best time spent in prison. It should be noted that reading and writing in prison have had a significant impact on the philosophical and political literature of the West and even on the general course of history. Mr President! In the future, however, access to the library could be refused if it interferes with the library itself in the same way that any of us can stop visiting the library if it interferes with the library. In this speech, I would like to express my concern about the level of prison library services in general. Among other things, the Assistant Ombudsman has drawn attention through his inspections to the fact that library services may depend, for example, on guards visiting the local library on their own time to pick up these books, and this is of course not in any way appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u237	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u238	Madam President! The author of the initiative, Mr Kontula, points out his/her own high level of humanism and points out that prisoners must also have their own rights and that punishment that is not perceived as punishment or use is pointless legislation. I have no prison experience, but perhaps some idea about it: When I spent a few days in the military jail, literature was Run the boy run and the Cross and the knife. Then you could read it there for a couple of weeks. This is exactly what Mr Kontula has said, that we must have the opportunity to improve the library services in prisons, and that, today, when we regularly dispose of books in libraries, we should now get these orchestras together to coordinate them in such a way that we can make use of the mass of books that we come from normal library services. As such, I support the Kontula bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u239	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u240	Madam President! Indeed, the main content of this initiative is that the initiative proposes to exempt the enforcement debtor from the payment of interest on late payments. By removing the interest on late payment, many debtors are given a realistic opportunity to pay their debts during their lifetime. The reason for this is — someone might imagine that there is some kind of populism, but there is really no populism here — that I really want to bring it up and give you a reason to think about whether it makes sense, after all, to have zero interest rates in enforcement. Quite often it is easy to do so so that this becomes a real incentive trap when the debt going into enforcement continues to raise a large amount of payments. There's an enforcement fee for the government, plus, of course, that interest. This is an extremely challenging job because it is not necessary for a normal working person to have a very high debt of enforcement when, in reality, interest rates are increasing and that capital is never reduced there. This is such an incentive trap that if you think of employees making EUR 2000, two tonnes in net, and the bailiff goes there, then it will be between EUR 1,300 and EUR 1,400 per month. This means that, compared to the fact that, if you were to live with a job allowance, there would not be many hundred people living for that month's work for themselves, which would simply mean that you prefer to work in the dark or something like that and raise the unemployment benefits from there. Of course, many people feel that this situation is a little challenging and perhaps unfair for the creditor. But if you are honest, you can decide for yourself whether to take your debt into enforcement or not to take it into enforcement. In other words, if the situation arises that the creditor wants to take it out, the debt is likely to be quite desperate at that point because of its debts and that is why it is usually taken there. Well, personally, in the early 21st century, I've had to pay off a guy's bank loans. If this guy brought me the money I had to pay today, I'd be so happy. I will probably never get it, but the situation is that it would have been enough capital. In any case, when we think about this matter in this way, the creditors who take such a debt into enforcement have, until it goes into enforcement, often doubled that debt. Especially when it comes to recovery companies or similar, the loan is quite quickly even double. I really think that the fact that it stops being doubled when it goes into enforcement is really human. And the most important thing is that when it is there in the enforcement, the debtor will at some point see that the debt actually expires, and he will see the date of the future when he will be rid of that distress. As a result, we have 500,000 enforcement customers, of whom I am sure, I say so, one 100,000 will be reinstated in the labour market thanks to this zero interest rate. Let me be frank, I understand that at first it may seem that this does not make sense to the pearl. But really, when you think about this whole thing, that this zero rate would do that service to society as a whole... And I'm sure the creditors who are collecting these debts through enforcement have, before going into enforcement, raised enough interest to do the job. There was even a debate on this in the media, and the engagement council took a position on this issue a little bit, a hunch, in a crazy way, because he suggested that this running of enforcement costs society more than the money it has received at the moment, but this should not be the case for us decision-makers to mess it up, as the engagement council did, that this would be the removal of the enforcement fee to the State, that is to say the expense that the debtor has to pay for the enforcement. This, however, means that this will by no means be used as an ATM, because it makes no sense. No one will be in favour of them after this, even after zero interest, because it will be more expensive to pay for it through enforcement. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u241	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u242	Mr President! Mr Laakso's initiative to exempt enforcement debtors from the payment of interest on late payments must be seen as a very good starting point. Many times in this Chamber there has been talk of how entrepreneurs who have fallen during the recession of the 1990s are still today, much of them, and even in the second generation, in major problems. Mr Laakso's initiative is a tough one, with a cold, zero interest rate, but the enforcement fee, as Mr Laakso has rightly said, would be maintained. I welcome this because we should sometimes take this problem seriously in this Chamber. We are talking about increasing employment, increasing state tax resources, and then we are talking about the availability of labour, and we have half a million people who are excluded from the squirrel wheel in such a way that a large proportion of them are entrepreneurs, and if they were given the opportunity to get out of the huge pile of interest that has accumulated over the years and decades, that is, mere interest rates, now I am not talking about capital, then there would be a huge resource there, I say 100 000 people. Can we, such a small country, afford to keep such a reserve out of everyday productive activity? In this regard, I hope that this excellent legislative initiative by Mr Laakso will either cause the government to seriously consider adopting this bill as it stands, or at least bring a major debate to this Chamber: should we at last do something about it? The fine words and initiatives and the talking, the words of ministers, that we should now have to do so, and the promise every year that we must now finally get to that point — in this Chamber it can be done this way. [ Talker snaps fingers] When such a development is possible in such a Western welfare society, at least I have questions as to whether we have done all we can. For 30 years, has everything that should have been done in this Chamber been done? The debt has to be paid, is it not, but the fact that it is first hit by the collection agencies — note. and this is allowed — by order of up to 700 % interest: in this Chamber, it is accepted that tax haven companies collect hundreds of percent interest from Finnish citizens. We accept that. Then it goes to collection, enforcement, and then comes the interest on the enforcement. Its interest rate on the top of the interest rate will then come on top of the government interest rate. I think it's unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u243	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u244	Madam President! A very pleasant, good and ambitious bill that Mr Laakso has brought here. First of all, if we start with Mr Peltokangas' speech and promises, which is also in the government's programme, facilitating the position of the over-indebted and, in a way, what has been done so far, we will hopefully have, during this autumn, a reduction in the credit default marking for one month. It has required all of us, not just during this parliamentary term but in the previous and previous period — long-term work together to be done in front of the hundreds of thousands of people who suffer from the credit failure marking and are in the distress described there by Mr Peltokangas. The Government Programme also includes an increase in the security component of enforcement to the minimum pension, which is a step in the direction needed. The Left Alliance has drawn up a programme in paragraph 15 on how to improve the position of over-indebted persons, and one is to moderate the contributions to interest, recovery and legal expenses by lowering the statutory interest rate on the enforcement rate and separating the principal from the interest costs of the debt so that a larger part of the payments are used for debt repayments. The debtor also needs to know in detail where the enforcement payments go. It is hoped that, during this autumn session, we will have a joint legislative initiative here between the Government and the opposition parties, which will put even more concrete emphasis on what we can actually do and what we can start to prepare already during this term of government. We have a positive credit register in preparation, and its legislation is supposed to be completed now during this parliamentary term, but, as we have heard from the Minister, the tax system is not yet in a position to implement it during this parliamentary term. But let us also remember to ensure that there is no casting error that is currently possible in the Finnish debt arrangement, that the highest part of the limit rate is used. I too have business acquaintances who tell me from the '90s that the bank had given me a certain amount of debt. The entrepreneur had not used only part of it, yet it was taken through court so that the entire maximum amount was left to be recovered, and it became bankruptcy. Only now, after many years of receiving those documents from the company, was he able to prove that this is true, but we lack legislation: there is no correction for the summation of the amount to be recovered from the court or the court if there is a mistake. We have a lot of work to do, but this bill by Mr Laakso is exactly what we need in this society, so that we can get those people back to work, that the work is always worthwhile, that it is not that all the money disappears into the wind and it takes away the will to work. Let us hope that the debate on this tough target, too, has now been opened and taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u245	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u246	Madam President! This presentation by Mr Laakso is very good. Over the past summer, I've been getting to know some of these problems for the debtors. What is particularly incriminating to see is that such a person who has to fight with the enforcement and with these quick-jumping or collection companies has difficulty in getting himself out of that deep swamp no longer, especially when he may not even know how much of the debt he owes. It may be that he and all these papers — they have come first and they have not been dealt with, and the rest of the papers have been left unopened or torn — can imagine his own debt, which he has there, even ten times. I hope that this bill will move forward, and I would also like some reasonableness to be made available to these foreign companies, the collection companies. Just now, as a photograph, I took an example of this: EUR 7.24 has increased to EUR 54.60 by the collection company, and since then it has gone into enforcement. I can't believe this. It's 7.5 times, the payment this collection company is trying to take out of this payment. I would like to see a positive response, and thank you very much. Mrs Myllykoski's attitude to this initiative too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u247	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u248	Madam President! It still has to be said to Mr Laakso that in these matters the extremes of the Chamber will find each other and the same responsibility will certainly be shared throughout the Chamber. If something could suddenly be done together, then surely it would be that when the government has reacted correctly and has adjusted the interest rate to a ceiling of 10% on the interest rate ceiling for quick-leases and consumer credit, we would have a good collective interest in going now to demand action from the government to make this permanent. That is one point on the agenda of paragraph 15 of the Left Alliance. And when the war comes, it is hoped that in these welfare areas the self-responsibles of the social welfare and health services will not be used for recovery, but will be able to agree on the euro per month payment so that people do not end up being hunted down by the collection companies. Even now, joint municipal boards, municipalities, cities, their social and health services place them in unpaid recovery, and we are in the same cycle: there will be a default marking, things will be passed on to enforcement. In the case of these social issues, which we need, those who are insolvent at the time when they seek services for their own health, would not be subjected to the capture of the collection companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u249	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u250	Madam President! Indeed, there is much to fix in this whole system, because there seems to be even a situation where there will be new ones. In fact, just yesterday at the lunch table, I received a report from a former entrepreneur on the way in which a regulation has changed here. Earlier, when he paid... When the tax debt had remained there when he had sold his business — had sold a bit too cheap, had dropped a bit wrong, and happened to stay a little bit on the spike — and he couldn’t handle it, it went into the enforcement. And now that he has received and paid taxes in the last three years, the phenomenon became such that it is still visible there in the unpaid. He's got a pot bath, 60 euros, but now some regulation has been changed so that it's put in those oldest debts. And now they're doing such a ridiculous thing that now that he's paying off the parent's debt, this latest stays and then goes back to the enforcement. So what we mean is that we cannot cut off the debt cycle at all, what goes into the enforcement, that is, every time a new one hits it, then there is always an enforcement fee for the state, and yet here we are talking about the activities of the tax authorities. In fact, today I had my own assistant sort out a little bit of where this came from. In fact, now that you've had your last hit and paid for it, they're automatically transferred to those oldest debts, which means that you can't break the cycle of defecation at all. Sometimes I feel that when we should get these things in a better direction, why do we have such situations, that we go from ditch to ally? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-07-ps-92.u251	John of the Deputies Mr Vartiainen must be replaced by a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The supplementary vote will take place at the plenary session on Wednesday 8 September 2021 at 14 p.m. Candidate lists must be submitted to the central office no later than 8 September 2021 at 11 a.m.
