ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 21/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 September 2021. In the general debate, Ms Laiho Sari Sarkomaa has proposed that the draft law contained in the objection be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u2	And then I ask that if there are small informal meetings, they are held outside this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u3	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. — Debate, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u4	Mr President! We have a report from the Bank of Finland’s Banking Council for 2020 — or perhaps the case for some, but in any case, before us. This was an exceptional year in many ways, as in many other key authorities, bodies or sectors of society, including the Bank of Finland. While the employees of the Bank of Finland drove the corona pandemic to the home offices like many other jobs, the Bank’s role in managing the economic crisis caused by the corona pandemic was emphasised. In conclusion, it may be concluded afterwards that the operation was at least reasonably successful. At the beginning of the Koronapandemia, the Bank of Finland, like many other economic developments, was concerned about the economic impact of the epidemic. The fall in demand for consumption at the beginning of the epidemic was severe. At that time, there was a large-scale wave of bankruptcy and, as a result, an increase in bank credit losses, a deterioration in the financial situation of banks and a reduction in bank lending opportunities. At its worst, in addition to the shock caused by the interest rate, we would have had a banking crisis which would have further exacerbated the shock caused by the corona pandemic to the economy. Securing access to finance for households and businesses and preventing the financial and banking crisis were the most important tasks of the Bank of Finland and the European Central Bank over the past year. Both the Bank of Finland and the European Central Bank focused on securing the functioning of the financial markets and sought to support economic development and bank lending during the crisis with a record light monetary policy. The Governing Council reacted to the weak economic situation by further streamlining its monetary policy on several occasions during 2020. The ECB stressed the need for a longer period of strong growth-friendly monetary policy in order to strengthen base inflation adjusted for energy and food prices and to stabilise overall inflation close to the target over the medium term. Under normal circumstances, the central bank directs economic development through its decisions on interest rates. By lowering interest rates, the central bank can influence business investment decisions and household consumption decisions and thus overall economic development. In recent years, the ECB's monetary policy, as is well known, has also used so-called unconventional measures, which in practice mean the purchase programmes of the Central Bank's securities and the lowering of the interest rate on deposits made by commercial banks to the central banks below zero. These measures aim at securing liquidity in the money market, ensuring financial stability and reducing monetary policy. Last year, in the corona year, the monetary policy of the ECB was strongly supportive of growth. The Eurosystem’s securities purchases continued and expanded in the form of a pandemic emergency purchase programme. The steering rates were kept very low. In its forward-looking communication on the future monetary policy, the Governing Council pointed out that, within the limits of its mandate, the Eurosystem was prepared to make every effort to support economic activity. The Bank of Finland is part of the Eurosystem and participated in the monetary policy decisions of the European Central Bank and in the implementation of monetary policy. How monetary policy is implemented in practice in the Bank of Finland is a separate expert article at the end of the bank council report, which I warmly recommend getting to know. The report also contains annexes to the situation of European banks, the digital euro and the principle of responsible investment by the Bank of Finland. In addition to the joint decisions of the Eurosystem, the Bank of Finland took national measures to support the transfer of funding to businesses and households. On 1 September 1920, the Bank of Finland introduced its own framework for obtaining additional loans in order to secure loans from the central bank by banks that do not meet all the Eurosystem’s common credit standards. After the outbreak of the pandemic, the Bank of Finland also reinvested in Finnish Commercial Papers in March. The Financial Supervisory Authority's decision also sought to ensure banks' access to credit during the interest rate crisis. The objective of the so-called macro-prudential policy is to prevent financial crises by, among other things, regulating capital requirements for banks. During the interest-rate crisis, the capital requirements of credit institutions were reduced. This was calculated to increase the lending opportunities of Finnish banks by around EUR 30 billion. In June, the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority subsequently restored the maximum lending ratio, i.e. the so-called ceiling, to its legal base level. The measures taken by the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority were therefore aimed at supporting economic development during the corona crisis. The main objectives were to safeguard the functioning of financial markets in all circumstances and to use monetary policy to stimulate the economy. In this regard, the policy appears to be very successful in retrospect. On the other hand, monetary policy has greatly increased the balance sheet of the Central Bank and the associated risks, and, of course, ultra-light monetary policy also has a wide range of implications for asset items and household indebtedness. These matters have been followed very closely by the Banking Council on both the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority. Finally, Mr President, printing money is usually a productive business, ladies and gentlemen. However, in the year of interest, most of the Central Bank’s profit consists of the output of negative deposit interest rates. In 2020 the Bank of Finland won EUR 142 million. Of this, EUR 42 million was spent by the Board of Governors on raising the funds, which provides, inter alia, for the central bank for losses resulting from the rise in interest rates to the normal level. EUR 100 million of the Bank of Finland's profit has already been transferred to other needs of the State in the way it considers best for the Parliament. I think there's a lot of use here for this money. Mr President! Here is a brief overview of the activities of the Banking Council from 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u5	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u6	Mr President! The report of the Board of Governors contains a great many important issues. There is a great deal going on in financial markets and financial supervision. A year ago, I myself, if not more, addressed these unconventional issues of monetary policy, which Mr Lindtman has just raised. I will not go any further, but the point I would like to raise in this speech is about the digital central bank currencies, which were discussed in one section of this report by the Banking Council on a few pages. However, the theme has still been very limited in the debate in Parliament and in public, although this is a very important issue and many central banks in the world are actively on the move to consider and plan the possible introduction of digital central bank money. China is probably at the furthest deployment, the test version has been ready, I believe, for a good time and the introduction is envisaged, at least as a pilot — apparently in connection with the Winter Olympics. The intentions of the European Central Bank have previously been communicated to Parliament by letter E, and have also been communicated by the Bank of Finland. This is therefore the digital euro launched by the Central Bank. Digital wallets would be available and deposits and payments would take place directly in the central bank’s own digital system and balance sheet, i.e. separately from the commercial banking system. It is, as it were, cash issued by central banks, but in digital form. In July, the European Central Bank launched a two-year research phase aimed at finding solutions to the main challenges facing the design and distribution of the digital euro. It was said that the digital euro should serve the needs of users but should not have a negative impact on financial stability or monetary policy. So it's a research phase. In any case, it is important to stick to the principle that the digital euro comes alongside cash, not in its place. There are a great many fundamental economic issues and perspectives to be assessed, starting with fundamental rights, privacy and data protection, and the importance of the traditional banking system in the financial system. You have to be awake about this. After all, things can happen quickly, and different countries will draw their own conclusions and act no matter where the ECB ultimately ends up. The theme is also closely related to crypto, virtual currencies whose use and market value have increased and varied rapidly. Here I would like to point out that the regulatory environment is now developing very quickly and also has a wide range of aspects. It is worth watching what is happening in the United States, especially the SEC and its director, Gary Gensler, who is often on the agenda and who is personally familiar with the industry and technology. I believe that it will take at least 10 years, perhaps 15 years, even though work has already started, to build basic regulation. Hopefully, the work will be done carefully and comprehensively and it will be understood that this is still a very young technology that is developing rapidly. In addition to the use of means of payment, applications for decentralised financing — DeFi, decentralized finance — have developed rapidly. One real concern is the environmental impact, the use of energy due to the computing power that computers need to run digital block chains. In this context, it should be noted, at least, that in practice, environmentally neutral solutions are being developed and already exist. It is a question of introducing them. I would like to see that this is a technological problem linked to scalability, in the same way that slow network connections in the past have substantially restricted the Internet. A Commission proposal on virtual assets markets is also pending at EU level. It seems that there is a competition in the EU as to who will gain the advantage: the United States, China or Europe. Institutional actors have also been involved in the field. This is therefore a very interesting setting: there is a formal arrangement between the central bank money being planned and between their private virtual assets and competition. There are not only commercial but also political dimensions. Among other things, the Director of the BIS Innovation Centre of the Bank for International Settlements and Benoît Cèuré, formerly on the Executive Board of the European Central Bank, have raised this issue. Finland also has significant technology know-how in the digital and financial sector, and we would therefore have the opportunity to be large in the industry and to be a pioneer in some sectors, and of course we need to work in the forefront to understand what is coming. I think that regulation is necessary and necessary in many respects, and that is why, at national level in particular, we must be up-to-date and actually ahead of time and build a smart regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u7	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Banking Council! The report by the Board of Governors for 2020 is before us, and the chairman, Mr Lindtman, in his presentation and also the previous colleague, Mr Park, is well through this situation. In his own speech, Mr Lindtman raised the issue of companies in that difficult year of interest. We must commend the fact that the government, together with the companies and Finns, succeeded very well, so that the dreaded wave of bankruptcy did not come. It was prevented by measures involving Finnish society extensively from the Bank of Finland to the government of our country and all the way there to the everyday life of every job. Now, however, we must look at this situation too, and then, of course, we are faced with the fact that this long-term and questionable restriction of interest rates is beginning to make it even more difficult for these companies to operate. I personally hope that these are not measures which, if prolonged, cause the bankruptcies that Mr Lindtman spoke of and which were still able to prevent last year, because the cashiers of many companies are currently very empty and the situation of many landlords is much more difficult at the moment. In other words, there is no such thing as savings in any way, so to speak, that can help this situation if it is prolonged. For us, the cultural and event sector is in a difficult situation. A moment ago, we tried to vote off that two-metre distance clause, section 58d. We lost that vote to the government. That section remains and continues to restrict our cultural and event field. The tourism and restaurant sector is another sector which is in a very difficult situation. These relaxations, which came into force yesterday, did seem to me to be very delicate. If we give an hour more business time to companies in this vaccination situation and in this corona situation, I'm afraid those bankruptcies will come from there, which in 20 C.E. was still able to block. After all, the Bank of Finland has also been concerned about the indebtedness of households, and that is an issue that is more prominent here, including in Parliament. The indebtedness of households, from the point of view of the operating economy, but also from the point of view of the ageing housing stock, is a major concern which should be able to take more seriously and work together to find solutions to how, in an increasingly sparsely populated country, we would have the means to maintain the housing stock there is. It was sad in some way to read an interview with an ex-representative colleague, Mikko Alatalo, in which he told of his family's house, which is now empty and falling apart and which would have been habitable a moment ago. In many respects, there are many of these examples and many of them in housing companies. This is the problem that the President and CEO of the Bank of Finland, Mr Rehn, has pointed out that our housing companies no longer want to receive loans when housing prices fall below EUR 1000, which is where the country is currently. Well, of course, one must be concerned about reckless financial management overall. Olli Rehn, President of the Bank of Finland, has also stated that efforts to balance public finances should no longer be postponed. In his view, our country's economy is now experiencing a growth spurt, but economic growth is relatively subdued from a point of view. He said this week: ‘Our public expenditure trend clearly exceeds the growth trend in theimport economy. It is not on a sustainable basis over a long period of time.” “We don’t have a panic, but other decisions After all, this week the Bank of Finland increased its own forecast of economic growth dramatically after 2020, but this phase of rapid growth is likely to be short-lived, even according to these latest forecasts, and it is estimated that even if growth is now very high, in 2023 the normal growth rate of 1.3% would have been restored. And that means that we now need these employment measures, which we have called for here and which the Bank of Finland has also raised. This week we have also had an interesting debate on how the Minister of Finance, Saarikko, sent a letter and brought Finland into the ranks of these countries in Europe. Eight countries sent a letter, and now it has been with great interest that we in the Prime Minister's Party, the Social Democrats and the Greens, have criticised this approach of the island – that is, eight in the EU would like to maintain old rules on debt and deficits and not to go back and reassess them. This is a large part of our economic debate in the future, and I hope that there will be more debate here in Parliament than last night's short debate, in which very few Members of Parliament took part. But, Mr President, it is hoped that the situation will remain as good for companies as it was in the midst of all the corona crisis in 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u9	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u10	Mr President! One of the major challenges in the future will be the correction of debt levels in over-indebtedness countries. That is perfectly clear. But at the very least I am equally concerned about our over-debted citizens, individuals and households, whose indebtedness has grown almost continuously in Finland for about twenty years and has risen historically high. Over-indebtedness has increased so rapidly that we can talk about a major social problem. The State must address debt problems more effectively and several studies have been carried out on how to prevent over-indebtedness. The government of our country should implement these legislative measures quickly, rather than constantly producing new absurd taxes for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u11	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-17-ps-100.u12	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindtman, for the excellent presentation and overview of our report. I myself have the opportunity to act as a bank representative, and from that point of view, perhaps I should like to raise one point in this speech. All in all, this report gives a rather interesting and broad overview of the circumstances of a very exceptional year in many directions. I'm sure it's a highly recommended study reading for all of us. President! We are also on the Board of Directors' side of the Financial Supervisory Authority, and so in this report we also report on the activities that are taking place there. We are also going through the priorities that we, as delegates, have required the Financial Supervisory Authority to do. When you look at, among other things, page 39 and beyond — and from page 38 onwards — these measures, which we have raised, I think it is important that we have made it compulsory here to participate actively in international supervisory cooperation in the fight against money laundering, including the fight against cyber-security threats, we have considered important, and so have the indebtedness of households and mortgages, such as those of housing companies, to be taken into account. My own favorite child, President-in-Office, of all these important themes is access to basic banking services. I have talked a lot about this because I see this as part of such a big challenge in today's society, which is equality in a digitalising world. We have done a digital leap, and of course many good things about the digital world have once again been revealed and strengthened, but then we always remember, in the Finnish Bank's terms, that the coins also have a reverse side. And the reverse is that when we have those people who aren't you with this digital world — there are no gadgets, or they don't know how to use them, or there are different reasons why they can't get to them — there are often certain fears about the risk of exclusion. In this case, we are talking about banking services and basic banking services must be able to ensure that these people also have equal access to basic banking services. Then the second point I would like to draw attention to is the price side. Firstly, the price of basic banking services must always be reasonable,
