ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u1	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — For the debate, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u2	Madam President! When commendation is due, then it will be given, and this is a good presentation from the government. This is also demonstrated by the work of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, which has been unanimous and has progressed very quickly. This was not long ago when the debate on this government proposal to amend the Working Time Act took place, and even then the debate on the referral was probably the most vigorous support from the opposition to this good proposal. And it is now here in our debate, and this is about to come into effect. After all, the legislation on working time has, in fact, unnecessarily hampered the activities of employers and workers and their daily lives, particularly here on the fire and rescue side, where there has always been 24 hours of work in practice and then three days of leave. This cycle has worked well. In fact, it has been one of the elements of the fire and rescue service, one might say, of the attraction with which workers have been recruited. Some time ago, when these shorter working hours were introduced, they were tried at certain rescue services, so quickly it was discovered that the attraction to the sector was weakened, moved elsewhere, and, on the other hand, more people had to be recruited, which of course has also contributed to the increase in the cost of fire and rescue services. Now that we are aware that our shortage of rescuers will be evident in the years to come — we have very big challenges to get enough rescuers to do these tasks throughout Finland — it is good that this correction to this working time law is being made. It could be said that, in principle, it would perhaps be good if we were to do as little as possible — we legislators, on the one hand, and the authorities — about the way in which working time and everyday life are organised in the workplace. The best expertise is in the workplace itself. This change in the rescue service is an example of the fact that when the legislation went a little hooter there, things went a little worse. And now this amendment to the Working Time Act actually corrects this good rhythm, which means that 24-hour shifts and three days off will be respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u3	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u4	Mr President! It is good to continue with what Mr Heinonen has already said. Indeed, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities dealt with this issue and unanimously supported this proposal. In fact, I see this as a good example of what we can achieve through local agreement and taking account of the specific characteristics of the sector. I hope that this is also an example that can be used in other sectors, even though this is now precisely the area of fire and rescue. And I do not mean that some other sector should go on such a 24-hour shift, it probably does not fit much of any other sector, but almost every sector has some of its own special features that would be extremely important to take into account, and it is now seen that when you try to put on the same shoe, no matter what the size of your leg, the result is bad. That is why it was very important that this proposal was brought and this is now moving forward and that we can go back to the practice that we have had in the past. It is certainly true, as Mr Heinonen said, that this will increase the attractiveness of the fire and rescue sector, because this system, to which we are now going, is precisely the will of the workers, this is a suitable way for them to do this work. It is also very important that the rescue sector is attractive, so that good, skilled and committed workers can continue to be employed there. It is a very good thing that this matter is now moving forward and moving forward unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u5	Congressman Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u6	Madam President! This is a good law, just as the representatives of Heinonen and Satonen pointed out with merit. Hopefully, this will put an end to the frequent uncertainty of the rescue and emergency services sector in the autumn as to what kind of working time will be in the future and what the authority will say about it this time. Now employers and employees can work together to agree on how to deal with working hours. That is good, because it is there in the industry and in the workplace that the greatest wisdom resides as to what is reasonable and what is not. This law is good for both employers and workers. We need to move in the same direction in the wider field of working life. Local reconciliation must be promoted. Agreeing means finding solutions together. In many companies, this means creating together a common future and space for success. The legislator or the authority must do as little as possible in the everyday life of jobs when the parties themselves have found the best solutions and practices. Rescuers and paramedics have traditionally made so - called daily rhythms. It means that you work 24 hours at a time and you have a longer time off. The weekly working hours have been evened out to 40 to 42 hours. This is possible because the work is essentially on call. It is sometimes difficult for us laymen to understand that the key task of these internal security professionals is precisely to maintain readiness. Every night and every day, every day, every day, every day and every holiday, must be at the required level. It means the ability to act quickly, from small inspection tasks to major accidents. Preparedness is maintained all the time, but no work is done around the clock. If these tasks are allowed, these professionals will also have the opportunity to rest at the workplace. This law allows our professionals to keep the best working time model for them. Mr President! The committee supports the adoption of the law in its proposed form. However, we were also aware in committee that the exemptions granted so far by the authorities have been seen to be partly inconsistent and sometimes somewhat arbitrary. Different conditions have been imposed on different workplaces, but conditions and standards have also been interpreted differently in the workplace. It is therefore necessary to specify what the legislator is trying to achieve. The aim is for this law to increase the freedom of agreement and not to reduce it. Different working hours can be agreed in the collective agreement in the future and exemptions from the authority are not required. It is also possible to move the issue of working time partly or entirely to local agreement. Inconsistency has also emerged with regard to the adjustment periods — i.e. the time at which the average agreed weekly working time is reached. In the future, the adjustment period may be agreed for a maximum of 12 months from the time of the work. The joint wish of the committee is that there should be sufficient information on the amendment of the law. The purpose of the legislator is to create looseness and promote reconciliation, not restrict or complicate anyone’s life. The question of rescuers and paramedics working hours is important. It is good that the extra adjustment in this respect is now stopped. There's more to think about in the business. The least of the challenges is not the transfer of rescue services from municipalities to welfare areas or a structural shortage of experts. The sector also has great concerns about the availability of resources in the future. These issues will be resolved at all levels in the coming years. They will be considered more than once in this Chamber. In the midst of all the turmoil, however, we must ensure that our professionals have peace of work for their important work. Our internal security organisations and those working in them must be under attack all the time, and the performance of the core task must not be jeopardised as the structures change. These professionals operate at the interface where it concerns the fundamental right of citizens, the right to life and health. There are no overtimes in safety. For many rescuers and paramedics, working time is an important issue. For many, it is one of the reasons for applying to and staying in the sector, as Mr Heinonen and Mr Satonen have already said with merit. Many feel that the daily working cycle facilitates the return from work and the reconciliation of work and family life. A lot of people work long distances. This would not be possible if there were significantly more shifts. Many fire stations, especially in remote villages, could also be left without professionals if they were to come to work more often. Business trips are expensive and — thanks to the government — are becoming even more expensive. Long commuting also leads to an excessive loss of leisure time and increased job-related dependency. Mr President! This is indeed a good law and I warmly support it. Thank you to the government when there is cause for commendation, and now there is. Rescuers and paramedics now need stability and continuity in the sector. Hopefully, this law will help them to carry it out and help them to carry out their demanding duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u7	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u8	Madam President! As has been the case on the part of the delegates, it must be said that the government has made a very good presentation. And most importantly, as Mr Satonen pointed out when the social partners have seen this together, this is what has been achieved, and it is particularly good. So we're going back to the old one, and that's what makes it possible. Personally, I'm worried about the attraction of the industry. I'm sure this alone won't lift it. Yes, wages and the binding nature of work are also such things. As far as the final part of Mr Kaleva's good speech and the sparsely populated areas are concerned, let me make it clear that there are no professionals there at the moment. This whole fire and rescue operation rests to a large extent in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas on contract fire brigades, i.e., as was said before, on vpk personnel. It is a concern that arises here, and while this previous year a court decision was made regarding working time and on-call duty, that all of it is regarded as working time, these regional rescue centres did not have the opportunity to pay the compensation that the law was beginning to require. Well, I'm sure there's been some sort of solution there. I also welcome this in the sense that there was no need for a levelling-out of working hours by the end of the year. As Mr Kaleva has rightly pointed out, the period of smoothing is now 12 months from the time of the work. If it had been until the end of the year, it would have been a disaster. Then would have been the holidays ’ empty positions when they had to be kept free. In this kind of looking further was good. Let us hope that this will make the sector more attractive, even if perhaps we still need some other elements there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u9	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u10	Madam President! I agree with Mr Kaleva and Mr Heinonen that, when there is reason to thank them, they should also give thanks. This government proposal is very necessary and Mr Kaleva has already described it very well in his own comprehensive speech. And most wonderfully, this has indeed listened to the needs and wishes of the field and the workers. I also hope that the law will come into force as soon as possible. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u11	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u12	Honorable Madam Speaker! We must thank the opposition for their thanks and for the unanimous work that has been done on this draft report, which has become a committee. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kaleva for his excellent speech. In your own speech, you have summed up the reason why this legislative change had to be made. It must also be noted that this legislative change is in no way incompatible with the working time directives. Finally, Mr President, I would like to remind you of what the committee has also said that it is very important now to provide sufficient information and guidance on this legislative change in order to avoid any misconceptions about its application. Thank you again for the good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u13	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Mäkynen, Mr Matias.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-12-ps-133.u14	Mr President! We are now discussing guarantees of origin for energy and we are accepting the government's proposal, which has been worked on in the Committee on Economic Affairs for quite a long time throughout this year. The question is that for a long time our energy companies have invested in incinerators and lived on the knowledge that this heat from incineration is renewable and that it is waste heat. Well, in this legislative amendment, it was somewhat unclear whether the heat generated by the incineration of waste could be treated as waste heat in the future. Now the final result is that we will be able to calculate 50% of the renewable heat, then 10% of the problem waste to be renewable, and finally, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have resolved the final part so that when the waste is recycled as far as possible, i.e. in the order of the waste hierarchy and then the remaining part will be incinerated, it will be renewable energy in accordance with this guarantee of origin. In other words, there were minor risks in the transposition of the directive and also in the way we interpret it in Finland. But now, with this report, in particular paragraph 18, we will be able to continue this incineration of waste and to read it as renewable energy. This requires further development of recycling activities in Finland, recycling waste as far as possible, and it will enable us to continue to use this as renewable energy. - Thank you.
