ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 1/2021 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period. — Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, represented by Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u5	Thank you. — Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u6	Mr President! This Article 88 allows municipalities to grant the right to derogate from the time limits for urgent care of health care where this is necessary for the organisation of urgent care, and this was the subject of a very in-depth debate by the Constitutional Committee. We have a fresh memory of the way in which some municipalities have just a few months ago, as it were, a priori driven down treatment without haste, which has then led to a growing therapeutic debt. Such a situation is totally unacceptable and it is extremely important that this observation by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is a strong observation, is taken into account in the hearings in the municipalities there and is aware that this emergency precaution cannot be introduced in a forward-looking way. People still need their services, and only when the situation is in crisis will this opportunity be introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u7	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u8	Mr President! At the outset, it would be appropriate to thank colleagues for their good contributions not only on the matter itself, but also on the application of the powers set out in the Emergency Act in the manner proposed by the government, but also on the general interest rate situation. And of course we must not forget the Constitutional Committee on these reports either. Despite the difficult circumstances and especially the time pressure, you have done a good job. As stated in the PeV report, our disease situation strongly justifies the introduction of the powers of Articles 86 and 88 of the Emergency Act. It is basically a question of safeguarding our health care capacity in a situation where the corona epidemic is spreading more easily in the population. The strengthened powers will give the authorities a better starting point to keep the epidemic under control and ensure that all those affected by corona receive the best possible treatment. Of course, the application of Article 88 in particular also presents difficult challenges. The main concern is whether, with this decision, the maintenance debt will increase further — while there is still a significant amount of care debt left after the previous exceptional circumstances. It would be interesting to know how the government intends to ensure that other diseases are treated during the corona epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u9	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u10	Mr President! These Articles 86 and 88 really deal, as we all know, with quite different areas in relation to this treatment of the corona crisis now in exceptional circumstances. This Article 86 I therefore think it is very important that we have already realised that this regional situation varies considerably. We have had localities — let me mention, for example, Vantaa — who have asked for official assistance to track down the Defence Forces, for example. Now it's Rule 86. In fact, it allows the government, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the regional government authorities to direct the entire healthcare resource, i.e. both municipal and private health care. Of course, it must be structured and be based on precise negotiations and then agree on compensation for work tasks, but this will enable, for example, the private sector to direct the overcapacity that is often present to help, for example, in tracking or in certain other situations. Of course, it's not simple. We all know that caring for corona patients in the ICU, for example, does not happen in such a way that staff are simply transferred to it, even if they have a medical degree, because it is a very demanding job which, in practice, will need a long training on the ground. But it is very important that this was introduced. Well, this is Rule 88. is, as we know, also a slightly different situation, that we have been living in a situation in which these long queues of illegals have not been monitored for less than a year now — in a sense, there has been an illegal situation. Now we are going to make a correction by which, because of this difficult situation and the allocation of resources to this acute epidemic, we are going to make it possible that it is not illegal for us to have excessive waiting lists. There has been a situation between nine months where it should not have been, and in fact the supervisory authority should have sanctioned — such periodic penalty payments have previously been, for example, addressed to medical districts if the queues have been too long — but I think it is wise that this has not been done, which means that it has in a way realistically understood the situation that exists in that field. These are both very important points and it is good that they are introduced here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u11	Like this. — and Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. I would also like to point out that Article 86 is extremely important in order to ensure the overallity of our intensive care in a situation where people are moving in the same direction as those in Estonia. Now I really hope that we do not go in that direction, but that risk exists here in Finland. And we have a situation in practice that at the moment there are less than 100 places available for intensive care in this situation and within a week a little over 100 places and, overall, less than 300 places. This intensive treatment, which is at its worst needed to treat this virus, is extremely demanding treatment and therefore cannot be given everywhere and people who are targeted cannot necessarily be transferred. That is why it is important to find the right places for treatment, regardless of what the current prevailing idea is in each hospital district.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u13	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u15	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 2/2021 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period. — — — — Rinne, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerns a regulation on the introduction of the powers of Articles 106(1) and 107 of the Emergency Act. This is an implementing regulation in accordance with Section 6 of the Emergency Response Act. The Regulation provides for the introduction of powers for the communication of administrative authorities and for the resolution of the sector. According to Article 6 of the Act on Preparedness, Parliament decides whether the adoption regulation may remain in force or whether it should be partially or completely repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the regulations mainly concern the internal functioning of the administration and do not restrict the fundamental and human rights of people. Although some aspects of the regulation are too transparent, it does not need to be repealed. The Government has proposed that this Regulation should not apply in the Åland Islands, as in the previous paragraph. However, such a limitation is not written in the wording of the regulation, as required by the Emergency Act. The territorial application of the Regulation must therefore be limited by an amendment which repeals the application of the Regulation in the Åland Islands. In other respects, the regulation may remain in force. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u17	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u18	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Rinne, for presenting the committee's unanimous report. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs sees no obstacles to the use of a section in the Emergency Act, and so it may remain in force. Of course, Åland will remain and be confined outside. Article 106 is a matter of communication, and we in the committee drew attention to the fact that this concentration of communication should only apply to this situation of the corona pandemic. We also stated there that the Government already has an obligation under the Government Statute to harmonise communications. Centralising communication with the Prime Minister’s Office will significantly limit the possibility of independent communication between different ministries and government administrations. This communication clause in the Emergency Act may be more appropriate for a war situation than for an infectious disease situation. This is one example of the need to deal with the Emergency Act as a whole after this crisis. Of course, there's an improvement in the clarity of communication. In the ordinary citizen's mind, the government's policies, regulations and recommendations have been confused. The public handling of pending or planned cases has also confused the work of the authorities. Communication should therefore be clarified and cooperation between the authorities intensified.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u19	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u20	Mr President! In my view, the application of Articles 106 and 107 of the Emergency Act as proposed by the Government is more challenging to weigh than the previous paragraphs, namely Articles 86 and 88. I am sure that no one in this Chamber will dispute the fact that there has been a lack of success in the implementation of government decisions on interest rates and information on interest rates in recent times. Neither can anyone from the government's own ranks admit that the adjustment of the limits has been very successful and, unfortunately, they are still leaking. There was also a strange farce about the new restrictions on restaurants and gyms, where the minister and avi argued in the media. In Central Finland, for example, restaurant entrepreneurs did not know whether or not to close the place on the same day. Of course, Mr President, in order to help quickly with the government’s communication and management challenges, I am prepared to support the government’s proposal with the criticisms and limitations of the Constitutional Committee. I very much hope that the open position of the Association of Editors will also be respected by the fact that the transparency of the preparation of decisions must also be emphasised in exceptional circumstances, since the broad wording of these articles will allow the competent authorities and also the municipalities to be restricted or even banned from making their own views on controversial issues. I hope this is not the direction the government is pursuing with these.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u21	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u22	Madam President! I agree with the previous speakers when it comes to communication, perhaps even those things that have further confused the thinking of the citizens, and this must be avoided at all points. Of course, we are living in the middle of a crisis, and then decisions are urgently required and decisions must be made quickly. And as we remember a year ago when the first closures began and, of course, there the municipalities and the various authorities went on to implement them, that was quite a job, but now this has been going on for a long time, so we should be able to react more quickly and tell the right kind of information and in the right way. This article in itself does not mean that, when communication is coordinated in one place, the shortcomings have been remedied, but we still have authorities, operators who may cross-record each other, and then, of course, we must try to ensure that the message is as clear as possible. The conclusion is that, of course, we must always bear in mind that there must be sufficient resources to prepare the law. Especially when sitting there in the Legal Committee and working with the administration of the Ministry of Justice, there is quite a bit of a shortage and a lack of resources too — that we have now had a really hard time with the draftsmen there and the writers and officials. In other words, what is needed now is for the government to look into the future, if this crisis continues for a long time, for there are also working hands, because this really takes power.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u23	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u24	Thank you, Your Honor. In my opinion, this brief debate also shows that we have had a need for more long-term reflection, parliamentary reflection on two issues, at least two. When the Government Programme 2019 was built in the spring — or summer — after the elections, it was also considered whether it would be necessary to reform the administration at the level of the Government during this parliamentary term, and it was found that it would take so much resources and cause so much disruption that it would be difficult to move things forward. It was therefore concluded that it would not make sense to embark on administrative reform. It is quite clear to me that we clearly need this silo, a dismantling administrative reform, which must be prepared parliamentaryly so that it has a joint commitment from all parties to how to go, so that we can get rid of it causing the mess in the administration during the parliamentary term when it will be introduced. Another thing that is clear to me is whether our preparedness law has now become obsolete when it comes to introducing these situations in which we are now living. It is clear that pandemic conditions are not all meant for at all, and some feel that they are not at all. And for this reason, I think it would be sensible to launch parliamentary preparations as soon as possible — once this crisis is overcome — to reform this whole package of preparedness law, because our management system needs to be clarified within the Emergency Act, but also otherwise. We need a much simpler model to lead this country. It has proved very difficult to take these decisions during this crisis. And it also has to do with why this sometimes seems very confusing. I must say that I very much appreciate the Ministers — and the Prime Minister in particular — that they have been able to hold this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u25	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u26	Mr. Chairman! In time, something happened to me that, of course, had not been hoped for, but learned a lot about it: I was a member of the maritime rescue leadership when Estonia sank. I had been a county doctor for three weeks, and the duties of the county doctor were then to be a member and to be in charge of the management of health care in the management team for sea rescue led by Commodore Tiilikainen. Of course it was a short-term crisis, and dramatic things had already happened, and things were largely after-care, but I learned from communication at that time because our chairman, Commodore Tiilikainen, who later became a Member of Parliament, focused very much on that communication. Three times a day there was a communication conference, a press conference, and the entire international press was there. A small Turku airport had been filled with foreign aircraft, and the world’s leading media were there from Wednesday morning until Saturday morning, until the time the wreck was discovered — then they left for the next crisis. And actually, half of that management was communication. For my part, with admiration, I then followed the work of the maritime rescue management team. Just as Mr Rinne has just said... When this matter was in the referral debate a few days ago, I myself took the floor, which, unlike my speech in general, had been written in advance, and I dealt with the management of crises which are smaller than war but are bigger than a crisis in a single administrative sector, and that is exactly what this corona crisis is. This is healthy, it is economic, it is social, it is a very wide-ranging crisis. We have an excellent book in Finland, which was submitted by Prime Minister Vanhanen’s two government secretary, Risto Volanen, and Colonel Pekka Visuri, who deals with six different civilian crises between 2004 and 2010. The main conclusion is that, as Mr Rinne has said here, we should concentrate in a new way on the leadership of such large-scale crises, because otherwise this will easily be silod. And now, as far as this point of communication is concerned, of course, this is only one part of the whole. It is very challenging and, in a way, great that, under very democratic conditions — I regard Finland as a truly democratic country with a wide freedom of expression — we are able to lead a crisis of this kind in general. I was right there looking at social media and I saw when I was criticising any minister for not having been immediately caught on a television show or something else. This is quite clear that we need to be informed, but then, for a moment, there will be overwhelming requests, so that we should be 24 hours a day on a topical program to discuss these issues and thus serve the media. Focus is needed, but it does not mean in any way to shut the mouths.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u27	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u28	Madam President! I fully agree with this draft decision by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and this is a very good debate on communication. This crisis must have taught us new lessons at many points, even if we take these Vantaa Airport events from the start of the crisis. If there are more than one ministry taking the matter forward, then the end may be that things will not happen quite as far as they are intended and in which direction they should have been taken. Mr Rinne made a very good point to the fact that it would be possible to go into this preparation now, but, on a parliamentary basis in particular, it would be possible to take a look at the decision-making processes of these silod ministries in crisis situations and, equally, at how it affects the entrepreneur or the player in the field, so that a clear, simple and unanimous message can be sent about how to act there. I fully agree with this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u29	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. — Minister Haatainen, presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u30	Mr President! The government gave 8. 1 March, the regulation temporarily restricting the opening hours of restaurants in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. This Regulation lays down the areas in which the temporary closure clause added to the Act on accommodation and catering activities would apply. Since the law on the closure of the catering business was dealt with in Parliament as an exception to fundamental rights in exceptional circumstances in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, this decree adopted pursuant to that law must be submitted to Parliament for ex post verification in the same way as the regulations on the introduction of articles in the Emergency Act. This Regulation therefore provides for a ban on the movement of nutrition in those areas where it is necessary to prevent the spread of covid-19. The Government has assessed the need to close restaurants by region based on the expertise of the National Institute for Health and Welfare. Nutritional movements must be kept closed in all regions of the distribution and acceleration phase under the Regulation. At the time of adoption of the decree, the regions in the distribution phase were Uusimaa, South Karelia, Päijät-Häme, Kanta-Häme, Varsinais-Suomi, Satakunta, Ostrobothnia and Åland. Kymenlaakso, Pirkanmaa, Etelä-Pohjanmaa, Etelä-Savo, North Ostrobothnia and Lapland have been the regions in the acceleration phase. It has also been estimated that the necessity for the closure of nutrition movements is met in the region of Central Finland, which is at its basic level, where the incidence rates of the disease are almost in line with those of the Province of Lapland. In regions not covered by the restriction, nutrition stores can continue to be open to customers. These companies must comply with the restrictions imposed by and under the Act on communicable diseases. The Regulation on the closure would be in force on 28 May 2016. Before and including 31 March. The closure of nutrition movements must be limited to the minimum necessary at regional and time level, so the Government will monitor the development of the disease situation during the period of validity of the regulation, based on expert data from the National Institute for Health and Welfare. The situation is assessed weekly. Restrictions must be introduced in those areas where they are no longer necessary. New areas can also be added if the disease situation worsens.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u31	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u32	Mr President! The closure of restaurants is a major decision, the consequences of which are greater than what many people think. The closure of restaurants puts everything on ice, among other things. Therefore, all work around restaurant events disappears, which means that a large number of Finns are left without work at least temporarily, at their worst permanently. There's no work for singers, DJs, roadies, lightmen either. The gigs are closed. Of course, restaurant staff — bartenders, vigilantes, bar owners and restaurant owners — may become unemployed. With this in mind, I would like to make a very serious point: 97% of the performers in the music sector are freelancers, self-employed persons. Many of them haven't had any support for anything in a year, they don't belong anywhere. The event industry is in crisis and therefore also the organisers and, of course, performers. Mr President! I take great concern about the survival of the Finnish restaurant industry over the crisis. The sector is very important to the Finnish economy when it is examined through the number of jobs and the turnover of the industry. Approximately 9600 enterprises operate in the sector and its turnover is more than EUR 5 billion, calculated as secondary enterprises. Thus, the tax revenue associated with restaurant activities is also one billion per year. The sector directly employs around 81,000 workers and indirectly 36,000. The support packages received so far in the restaurant sector have covered only a fraction of the losses caused by the interest rate. At a time when the doors of restaurants are being closed to curb the pandemic, the level of aid must be sufficient to avoid a huge wave of bankruptcy in the sector. In addition, it must be ensured that the aid reaches the right addresses. Here, too, there have been problems in the past. Mr President! I wish the government a comprehensive and viable plan to save the restaurant industry and, above all, the Finnish people who earn their bread. And I would also like to raise the issue of this field of events and the situation of the performers. For years they have paid their taxes in this country, and they have also contributed to the construction of this society. They have families. At the moment, the future does not look very bright. Some of them are already looking for a new profession, but that does not necessarily solve all the problems. This strict closure for three weeks may lead to a reduction in the number of infections that we all hope for, but in order for this measure to be as effective as possible to be properly dismantled, one thing still wonders: why is border control still rather weak? People are required to test, but it's still not black. So there is much to think about in the government and in the whole Parliament, but of course we believe in a better future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u33	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u34	Madam President! I share Mr Elomaa's concern and condolences that the situation in the restaurant sector is very difficult at the moment, of course, as a result of this closure, but even before the closure, the number of customers began to fall considerably. I noticed it myself when I went to a few food restaurants. There were very few customers, and that is why we need to look after the support. I know that it has been discussed, its number, and there are different views, but our common view is that in such a situation support is definitely needed. I myself asked to speak because the question of regionalism in the context of this epidemic has always been challenging and interesting. Even now this regulation has been prepared, as Mr Haatainen put it, so that some regions — from memory to memory North Savo, North Karelia, Central Ostrobothnia and Kainuu — and whether or not one more, South Savo, is not here, but 4 to 5 — which are not areas of acceleration and spread — are now excluded from these restrictions. They will then again comply with the restrictions that we have imposed separately under Article 58a of the Act on communicable diseases as a general rule on restaurant activities in this area recently. But the question is, of course, that different epidemics are different. If we have an outbreak of salmonella, it does not even require a shutdown of restaurants in a whole locality, but can be targeted at one or two nutritious movements, depending on the course of the infection. We have other types of epidemics. But now, especially after this British transformation, we have such an infectious corona virus here, and now we have also learned that its danger — that is, the nature of the disease it causes and the risk of death — is greater than that of the basic virus, that we now have to consider whether it is still here in the whole country, and if we only react when we have seen a cluster of diseases in a region, then we are basically a couple of weeks behind that reaction. Consider the areas that are now the largest infected areas in Finland, Åland and Satakunta. A couple of months ago, they were areas where there were hardly any infections at all. It was not easy to predict that they would become areas with such a high level of infection. And that is why I understand that this has now been put into effect so widely in this country — but note. I would like to stress that we have not been able to put into effect in the whole country, that is to say, we have sought this necessity and that it is not quite formal in the whole country, although it is only a minority of the region which has now been excluded at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u35	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u36	Madam President! I share Mrs Elomaa's and Mr Lindén's concerns about the situation of restaurant operators, which was already difficult before this decision and is still becoming more difficult. Of course, there is a risk that many companies will go bankrupt as a result of this situation. Well, this regulation does indeed follow the lines that have already been decided on by Parliament, but I would like to say here that I do think it is a pity that the government has not been able to prepare, as it were, a more subtle proposal for these regional measures. I mean, if you think about it, you know. The province of Uusimaa or my homeland, Kanta-Häme, and there are municipalities where the problem of infection is worrying, but then there are those areas where there are hardly any infections, and entrepreneurs feel that it is quite unfair for them to have to take part in these activities too. Of course, no matter where the line is, it always brings its interface problem. But Parliament gave the impetus, which required that, in future, more subtle regional solutions should be found. And the other, of course, also applies to these various restaurants. After all, these are all dealt with in the same way, whether it is a nightclub or a gas station restaurant, and even in this respect we would need more finer performances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u37	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u38	Madam President! This Regulation provides for the closure of restaurants in areas where closure is necessary to prevent the spread of infectious disease. It is a good thing that this excludes areas which, according to the disease situation, are more protected. But always, as we've already heard, it's hard to narrow it down. I will take, for example, Northern Ostrobothnia, which is a very wide area. From there my municipality of Reisjärvi is nearly 500 kilometers [500 km] to Kuusamo, and the regions are very different, the different parts of the region are very different. Perhaps it is more difficult to understand and accept these restrictions in areas where there are different terrains, in sparsely populated areas, when we are in a difficult economic situation. Of course, we have considered these finer divisions. A division at the level of nursing districts would not be much more subtle than this division of regions. On the other hand, the division of municipalities is opposed to the fact that people move from one municipality to another and between municipalities and in a small municipality, sudden changes can occur due to a clumsy spread. And, of course, companies could find themselves in an unbalanced competitive environment between small neighbourhoods geographically. These are all reasonable arguments. Perhaps it too is a risk that this kind of finer distinction could lead to people moving more between municipalities than before. It could also be more difficult to get information about the epidemic at local level, and it could also be difficult to communicate. Nevertheless, it is important that in future, in the context of the restriction of all fundamental rights, we look at regional differences and only take restrictive measures that are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u39	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u40	Mr President! It is clear that in this kind of epidemic situation action is needed, but on the other hand that communication has also been — from what I said in previous paragraphs — on a slightly fragile basis. Central Finland in particular was an interesting place in the sense that still 5.3. The corona fist said that Central Finland is currently at the basic level of the epidemic and that there is no need to close down restaurants. However, a few days later we went with Jyväskylä and then we got into this lockdown situation. So I very much hope that much better communication will then be used than has been done so far. But, Mr President, Mr Haatainen, the situation is that tens of thousands of workers will probably lose their jobs if the restaurant industry does not come to terms with this. I think Mr Elomaa has made a good speech here on behalf of both the restaurant and the event sector, and, in a certain way, the sector needs a cold start. Not in the spirit of alcohol, but in general the cold start so that the industry can get back on its feet after this situation, especially if the situation is now going to be that, after this three-week lockdown, only one third of people in certain tier two areas can be admitted to restaurants and this can last until the end of June. This would be one way of reducing VAT on alcohol to the level of VAT on food. That would be the quickest and easiest way, and I hope that you will now be seriously considering in the forthcoming spending limits debate whether this could now be such a cold start to get the industry back on its feet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u41	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u42	Madam President! I fully agree with what colleagues have said in this Chamber about this discipline in the field of tourism and nutrition, which has been going on for a year now. When you look at this aspect of business, it is, of course, on a sad scale when you first set down fewer seats and limited timetables and so on, even though the restaurant industry has done a lot of work on your own hygiene and also on the risk of infection and so on. When I have visited several restaurants, these so to speak, have gone well. Quite a few restaurants are acting vaguely, so to speak. That the restaurant's done well. The second is indeed this aspect of the show that has been brought up here with us. Indeed, performers and the field of events have been with hard discipline. I hope in the same way that this support will be strong and well targeted, because this full three-week closure will result in longer-term economic discipline than indeed this three-week period, as Mrs Wallinheim has also pointed out. It's not just the three weeks, it's going to take a longer time — then, if we can make further progress here. So I'll take care of it, but on the other hand, we need a closure because of the disease situation. I myself have often wondered whether, in this situation, it would still have been possible to think about the type of different restaurants, but there will of course also be edge drags, such as the continuity of the workings of lunch and gas station restaurants. After all, there are many places to take away, and perhaps it will bring some bread to the customer as well as to the restaurant operator. From this regional level, which is what has been decided here: The Government has quite well concluded it, even though the Economic Committee made more fine-tuning proposals by hospital district or local authority or sub-regional level. It is well-founded that in these areas, for example, sub-regions are not official areas and the hospital district is also a little vague. And then, if you look at this locality, the limit is so small that it should move — if you can move now. When you look at the region, I can just throw a little humor at you if you think of Levi and Leadings' song North Karelia, because it's not on this list. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u43	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, it must be said that you are well aware of the pain and concern of the companies there. This really affects all those areas where people are in contact with each other a lot, and the restaurant and event sectors are now central to those where this has had a great deal of impact. In my opinion, it is quite clear that in these areas different means must be found to help us move forward. At the same time, I also say that even in this matter it may be better to do this as a pacemaker, a repeat than a long beat. I see in that way that we have a clearly understandable future in which this disease has been overcome. It simply now requires a strong belief from us Finns that these measures, which are now under way, will bring this situation under control, the spread of the disease to a halt and reach the summer, as it were, under somewhat more normal conditions. If everything goes well with the vaccination, we have a much, much brighter future ahead of us next autumn. And I want to believe that these measures will be able to take things forward in a way that begins to appear to ordinary Finns, including businesses, in a much, much better, brighter future. From the point of view of these companies, this clearly calls for measures to be taken, aid to mobilise these frozen markets. In my opinion, the government has made a great deal of big investments in this too, and I hope that they will continue for so long that our economic growth will strongly move things forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u45	Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u46	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions. I understand that, this time again, the House understands the need for this decision, so that we can control this disease, the epidemic. There was legitimate concern here about the economic survival of this sector: Mrs Elomaa, Mrs Wallinheimo, Mr Rinne, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Pirttlahti, many of them raised this issue in their speeches. In this respect, preparations are under way in the Government, i.e. the compensation model is on the way, and Minister Lintilä is preparing it. This also involves the field of events, the cultural sector, and there are also these compensation models which are further improving in this respect. Mr Räsänen spoke of this more finer division of regions and someone else, some of them raised it. In this case of infectious disease and because of the virus variant, this regionalisation has been seen to be necessary. This regional division and its fineness have been considered, but this has now become the solution, and we have taken these decisions on the basis of THL's analyses and recommendations. The communicable disease situation is monitored and based on information from hospital districts and THL follow-up data, which is based on these expert assessments. Congressman Pirttäähti... [AnttiRinteen Microphone Opens— Speaker Microphone Closes ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u49	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-11-ps-22.u50	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong the debate, but I would like to draw my attention to a few more points: What makes this complete closure, as it were, necessary now in these areas is that this variant of disease is really strong to spread. We had a debate in committee from this point of view, given what happened in Åland a few weeks ago and what has happened in Ireland around Christmas. From these points of view it seems perfectly justified, inescapable that this kind of closure is needed in this situation. But just as serious was the discussion that we must be able to do this kind of regionally finer and also perhaps functionally, as has been pointed out here, for a more precise demarcation in the future. If this disease situation starts after this three weeks, it is important that, when applying the Act on communicable diseases or applying the new opening hours for restaurants, we start thinking about where it is needed. When it comes to restricting contacts between people, then one has to think about how, if you open them, it will apply to different regions better and more precisely and to different sectors as well as to different activities in the restaurant sector. These are important observations which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs raised in that debate and which must also be taken into account by the Government.
