ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 11/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Representative Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u2	Madam President! Experience gained from the 2020 meetings has increased the provision and use of remote participation opportunities. The available meeting services and meeting practices are developing and information on services and their use is spreading rapidly at the moment. The demand and skills for remote and online meeting services are expected to grow significantly in 2021. Only after spring meetings in the summer and autumn of 2021 will there be sufficient experience of distance participation and online meeting practices where the rights of members of the Communities can be fully implemented. In its opinion, the Committee on Legal Affairs has referred to its previous opinions on temporary law, in which it has raised the issue of the preparation of permanent legislation to facilitate distance participation and, among other things, the importance of the work on this subject. According to a report received by the Legal Committee, a proposal for permanent legislation to facilitate distance participation and enable online meetings is being prepared as early as possible during the spring session of 2022. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy agreed with the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in favour of this development. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights now considered the proposed regulation to be broadly justified and supported its adoption. During the application of fixed-term regulation, it is appropriate to collect experience and information on the organisation of remote meetings, possible problems associated with them, and good practice, so that this information can be used, where possible, in the future, for the permanent reform of Community legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u3	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u4	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Henrikson once again. We had a debate on this, and then I raised a few points, both good and perhaps even small, concerns. This applies not only to public limited companies, housing companies, cooperatives, associations and the transfer of their meetings, but also to the organisation of remote meetings. In that previous debate, I pointed out that there is also an important issue of accessibility and accessibility, that these meetings can be carried out at a distance, and I hope that this will also be a more permanent practice after this corona crisis. Then, on the other hand, I highlighted this multi-spatiality and the functionality of remote connections. We must ensure that we have telecommunications connections throughout the country to such an extent that these meetings can be attended. Thirdly, I hoped that Mr Henriksson would take the preparatory work in order to establish a system for the electronic implementation of these meetings, including in the case of votes, but above all in the case of elections. Quite often, such meetings, which are held once or twice a year — housing companies, limited companies, associations — may become electoral situations, and then it would be important for us to have a reliable system, preferably a common national system, which these parties could use to organise meetings. In other words, I am actually encouraging that this should also be a permanent practice for Finland from the point of view of accessibility and accessibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u5	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u6	Mr President! This proposal, perhaps a bit technical in itself, is very necessary as regards the clarification of these teleconference practices. And like the previous speakers, I also believe that these same practices could also be applied more in the normal period and allow for a distance meeting at general meetings even after the end of the corona pandemic. Now, for example, it is possible to represent another person by proxy at some general meetings. And I do not feel that the fact that a person represents himself at the meeting at least reduces his democratic influence over proxy representation. I could believe that it would even increase participation in meetings at some general meetings, where perhaps there is not such a large share of the housing company's stock on the spot, perhaps normally represented, so that perhaps people who may live in different localities at remote meetings would come much better. In practice, it has been seen that these remote voting procedures can be very effective and even facilitate the counting of votes compared to traditional on-the-spot ballots. In particular, in complex votes on the composition of the board of directors of the company, where there may be ten candidates and the voting relationships between these candidates need to be clarified, the machine calculates the votes quite quickly and reliably. In other words, I would like this to become perhaps a little more permanent legislation in a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u7	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-45.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Soinikoski has just described the opinion of our Legal Committee and I, as a member of the Legal Committee, fully sign it. All in all, we considered this proposed regulation to be justified. In this time of Teams, I have often wondered not so much bad that something good is not, and I am sure that this corona will indeed remain a permanent practice. All of us who are involved in different organisations and companies know that it is a real challenge to have delegates from these governments in the first place, but it is also often difficult to match these meeting schedules, and I personally believe that these new practices will also be a relief to this shortage of people, that people will then be better involved in the meetings. It will take time to get used to this, but it has already been shown that people in the final game will learn quite quickly about these uses of the system, and, of course, now that we are going to adopt these laws, we must also take into account the fact that those users also receive support, and thus older people and people who are not so used to using this technology will learn, and they will also have a new routine. I think this proposal is very good.
