ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Board of Directors is responsible for Jussi Halla-aho and others. on the intermediate question VK 1/2021 vp Finland's participation in the EU recovery package. Mr Sanna Marin's reply, which is 10 minutes, and after a ten-minute speech by Mr Halla-aho, the debate on the interim issue will take place at a rapid pace. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. After group talks, a 1.5-hour debut will follow, which will be divided into two 45-minute sections, as usual, so that the groups can exchange debators halfway through the debators. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. — Prime Minister Sanna Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u2	Mr President! The intermediate issue put to the government calls into question the legal basis of the EU recovery package, the net contribution position of Finland, the financial means set out in the own resources decision and the overall picture of the government's EU policy. At the same time, it is suggested that the Government would not trust the views of Finnish experts and that the package now agreed would not be one-off. The question is whether the Government is driving a federal state from the EU and how the package is seen as helping to deal with the corona virus crisis. Mr President! The EU recovery package is about dealing with an exceptional crisis that is independent of the Member States in a way that does not give the EU new powers, undermines the demand for a balanced budget or makes the Member States liable for each other's debts. This is what the Council's judicial service, which assists the Member States, also considers in its June opinion that the recovery package as a whole is in line with the EU Treaties. The financial assistance provided by the recovery instrument to the Member States is justified and justified in a situation where the Union has faced an exceptional occurrence comparable to a natural disaster which the Member State itself has not been able to influence. There is no new competence for the Union. Instead, an exceptional and one-off recovery instrument will be set up within the EU's constitutional, legislative and institutional framework without undermining the institutional balance. Furthermore, the instrument does not violate the requirement of a balanced EU budget contained in the Treaty, as it is a non-EU budget instrument financed as external revenue assigned to EU programmes. According to the Council's legal service, the recovery instrument does not violate Article 125 of the Treaty, as the Member States do not assume the debts of other Member States through this instrument. Mr President! In time, we have joined the European Union because we have experienced the importance of working together and being part of a larger group as a small country. For a small, export-driven country, the benefits of cooperation through an open internal market and security are many times higher than the net contribution. The fundamental principles of the Union include reducing differences in living standards both between EU Member States and within a single country. The narrowing of differences in living standards creates stability and economic certainty. Part of this principle is that membership contributions are determined mainly on the basis of the gross national income of each country. Similarly, a developed country benefits from an open market in the territory of hundreds of millions of people. Finland is a net contributor because we are one of the wealthiest countries in the EU. This has also been the case in previous governments. Also in the case of the recovery instrument, Finland’s net contribution is mainly due to Finland’s relative prosperity, according to which the contributions per Member State for the relief-based financing of the recovery instrument are determined. However, Finland is among the smallest net contributors in terms of both the recovery package and the financial framework as a whole. In the spending limits period, Finland's membership fees will increase by only 4%, while on average Member States' contributions are estimated to increase by around 10%. Here, too, we succeeded in the negotiations. Finland also managed, together with Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria, to negotiate an aid element of the Recovery Instrument of EUR 110 billion lower than originally proposed by the Commission. Mr President! The decision on own resources shall contain provisions laying down the criteria for financing the Union budget. In addition, provision has been made for additional exceptional and temporary appropriations to address the consequences of the interest rate crisis. These provisions also include the borrowing authority for the financing of the recovery instrument. Therefore, the own resources proposal already covers the entire financing of the recovery instrument. However, in the coming years, the Union will seek to reform the own resources system and introduce new own resources, the revenue from which would be used for the early repayment of the recovery instrument. The Commission's aim is to present its first proposals for new own resources by the summer. Each proposal for new own resources will be carefully assessed and brought to the attention of Parliament. Mr President! In its EU report to Parliament, the Government has just set out its policy on key issues in the European Union. Finland's strategic objectives for the development of economic and monetary union have also been outlined in the report. These objectives do not include transforming the European Union into a federal state. The recovery instrument does not create a Union of transfers or a federal state. Mr President! The Government’s contribution to the Recovery Instrument has taken into account widely the expert views and the impact of the recovery package will be assessed extensively. The expert evaluations have also been relied on by a large committee to form Parliament's position, which served as an indicative basis for Finland's activities in the EU during the negotiations. For example, a large committee heard professors of European law and constitutional law at the universities of Helsinki and Turku. In their opinions to the committee, the experts agreed that the adoption of the package was not accompanied by EU or constitutional problems. Mr President! The recovery instrument is the response to an exceptional and totally unpredictable global crisis. It is unique, temporary and limited in size and duration. There is no new competence for the European Union. It cannot therefore extend the duration of the package now agreed or establish a new recovery instrument without unanimous decision by the Member States. As far as Finland is concerned, this should be addressed in the Parliament. The recovery instrument shall last for a period of three years. By the end of 2023, all commitments under the Recovery Facility must be agreed. The texts of the Regulations do not contain any wording that would allow flexibility or flexibility in terms of duration. Finland’s maximum liabilities are strictly limited. The recovery instrument has been set up to respond to the economic disadvantages caused by the interest rate in the Member States. The financial allocation criteria also take into account the economic situation of the Member States before the corona crisis, which contributes to the resilience of each Member State to external economic shocks such as the corona crisis. Finland’s objective was to change the criteria in a way that better reflects the economic impact of the corona crisis than the original proposal. This was also required by Parliament in its statements. Mr President! The agreement reached by the European Council in July had a direct market stabilising effect. The agreement on the recovery package was immediately reflected in positive interest rate, stock market and exchange rate reactions in the financial markets. If no agreement had been reached, the reactions could have been reversed and serious. The importance of reaching agreement should not be underestimated. Our interdependence is deep, whether we like it or not. The recovery instrument will create a coordinated and synchronised economic stimulus across the EU. It brings genuine added value to economic policy, rather than a recovery by the Member States individually. Many economists have estimated that the agreement will have a positive impact on the Finnish economy. The most important question is what can be achieved through the recovery instrument. The criteria are clear. Recovery money should be used to modernise our societies by investing mainly in research and innovation, a fair green transition and digitalisation. These investments are a unique opportunity not only to improve the competitiveness of Finland and Europe and to create new jobs but also to generate new innovations and solutions to the most difficult issues of our time, such as climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u3	And now to the first signatory of the interim question, Mrs Halla-aho. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u4	Mr President! Prime Minister, the European Union is a political project. Despite the principle of subsidiarity, and contrary to that, the Union is consistently seeking to increase its own power and role at the expense of the legislative and budgetary sovereignty of the Member States. The European Union is promoting this super-power project through crises and using crises. The recovery package is an important step in the history of the Union, since in practice the giant fund would also substantially change the nature of the Union and the relations between the European institutions and the Member States. The debt taken together binds the Member States more closely together and leads the Union towards heavier joint responsibilities. The deepening of the debt union aims, on the one hand, to socialise the structural problems of the Member States which have failed to manage their economies and, on the other hand, to prevent the new Brexit. Although the recovery package is justified by the interest rate, the damage caused by the interest rate is not the determining factor for the distribution of money. You can get money if you have pursued irresponsible economic policies. In addition, the package is becoming a new debt instrument, which will continue to be used even though the arrangement is claimed to be one-off. One-offness is a form of verbatim intended for domestic consumption. The adoption of a recovery fund of EUR 750 billion would significantly increase Finland's financial responsibilities. The number of new financial liabilities to Finland resulting from the establishment of the Recovery Fund is significant in relation, for example, to the annual budget of the State. The high level of guarantees represents a huge risk to the state economy. Madam President! According to the latest estimates, Finland will receive approximately EUR 2.7 billion in grants from the recovery package and will pay EUR 6.6 billion for the package. This means that the EU recovery package will generate net losses of nearly EUR 4 billion for Finland. The Government justifies the package by the fact that the recovery of Southern European countries with gift money is important for Finland's exports. However, Finland’s trade with the main beneficiaries of the recovery package is very limited. The net impact of the package may even be negative for Finland, as Finland is reviving our country's export industry's competitors. If the government wanted to revitalise the domestic export industry, this could be done by cutting costs for industry and the transport sector, for example by reducing labour costs and the taxation of companies and workers, and by abandoning the world's most ambitious climate policy for the time being. Government parties repeat that the recovery of the euro area as a whole is important for Finland. No one disagrees with this. The Member States must revitalise their economies. It is a question of whether Finland and other northern Member States need to revive other countries in addition to their own economy, those whose capacity for national recovery measures is weak because they have mismanaged their economies and have lived beyond their means. It is a question of whether Finns need to be in debt and pay higher taxes so that someone else does not have to. It is a question of whether the Finns need to revive Italy and Spain so that these countries can use their own resources to pay citizens' salaries, reduce retirement age or reduce working time. Mr President! In addition to Finland’s own interests, the Government has justified the recovery package with solidarity. In this case, solidarity means stricter taxation for Finns, weaker public finances and a more unstable future. We all know and understand that a debt of solidarity violates the spirit of the Treaties, no matter what the legal services of the Council, the Commission or the European Parliament say. Action against the spirit of the Treaties and the unprecedented stretching of interpretations undermine the credibility of the EU as a defender of the rule of law. We cannot accept the principle that legislation, which is written for the protection of the Member States and their citizens, is subject to political expediency. The EU is on its way to a deeper Union of income transfers and wider joint responsibilities. The recovery package is not a one-off package, and the resulting responsibilities can be fatal to Finland’s public finances and Finnish taxpayers. Mr President! The criticism of the recovery package is not populism or propaganda. It is a factual, legal and expert analysis of the fundamental problems and risks of the package. Finns are intimidated by the fact that refusing a package would lead to Finland's separation or expulsion from the European Union. Of course, the security card has also been drawn, today's version of the Moscow card: either you support the debt union or you play Putin in the bag. Mr President! The European Union does not distinguish between payers. In time, Denmark rejected the Maastricht Treaty in a referendum. In a referendum, the French and Dutch rejected the Constitution of the European Union. The result was not that these countries were disfellowshipped. As a result, we returned to the negotiating table. It is not in Finland's interest to become a member of a Union that violates its rules, to undermine the ability of the citizens of the Member States to influence matters affecting themselves and to make debts and liabilities common. If Finland wants to be a bigger influence than its size, it must reject this package and announce that the border has now come. Someone has to set an example. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u5	And now we move on to the speeches of the parliamentary groups. — Mr Kimmo Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u6	Madam President! The intermediate issue is the most powerful instrument in the Constitution that the opposition can use to weigh the government's confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u15	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u16	Mr President! The Finns of Peru want to raise the issue of economic and moral decay in the EU and also the situation of Finland's independence. For the True Finns, Finland is not a trade, and we are not giving up our financial sovereignty for just a few Brussels-based foie gras balls. Of course, this eternal debt imprisonment for Finland, which is being marketed as a resuscitation, will not solve the economic problems in southern Europe that have existed long before the corona crisis. Do you remember how Jutta Urp, Minister of Finance of the SDP, granted loan guarantees to the euro crisis and appeared here as Nanny Tight? And so Urplainen's way only led to the Commissioner's job. Quite a lot of taxpayers' money, by the way, also went off before the Jyrki Katainen and Alexander Stubb Commissioners. Once again, we are in a situation where EU-minded decision-makers keep saying things like mantras, [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] that it is only a temporary one-off solution. Think of the fact that over ten years ago Matti Vanhanen, as Prime Minister, told us here how Greece's subsidies are only a one-time solution. And now ten years later, Vanhanen continues to find out, [MikkoSavolankäytä-PaavoArhinmäkinkäytä] Mr President! The EU recovery package is in breach of the EU's own Treaties. They do not allow the financing of activities by joint debt. The principle of no bail-out, which has been emphasised so far, will be violated if the government's objective is met and Finland assumes the debts of others. The basic Finnish line is that each country should be responsible for its own debts. [Interjection from left]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u19	And now, Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u20	Mr President! As a result of an in-depth reflection, Finland decided to apply for membership of the European Union. This solution has been described as the most important foreign and security policy decision since the Second World War, but also as an economic policy decision. There is no reason to question the decision, since it significantly changed the political and economic characteristics of Finland and anchored our country into the Western community. As a result of the global covid-19 pandemic, we have a social emergency with strong restrictions. The EU, in terms of its economy, has been built up as an actor of good days, but as the storm rises, problems have fallen on top of them. What is essential, however, is that even small nation states have benefited from mutual cooperation. If we could not do this, we would freeze behind China, the United States and others. That is why the unity and ability of the EU also matter to us. The Coalition Party is building an agreement, but not at all costs. The package negotiated in July does not help anyone almost in the best possible way. We therefore have reservations about the package and about the decision on the EU's own resources. The more bold the funds would be allocated to the development of skills and other economic growth projects, the more significant the stimulus effect of the package will be. Regrettably, the government's plans in this regard seem to be merely an old repetition. This is problematic in an arrangement where our own repayment rate for 30 years amounts to several hundreds of millions of annual contributions. That is why our resources should be focused on revitalising our skills, our business, employment and the national economy. The package is about huge arrangements. For our part, we do not want to take on a huge debt without a guarantee that the moral hazard of the economy can also be effectively prevented. The negotiations have failed if the result is that we are taking a debt to pay for the reckless economy of southern Europe. [Base Finns Group :Thurse!] Our group believes that the recovery solution must be one-off. The government has been strangely reluctant to make a strong commitment to the uniqueness of the arrangement. Why? It's simply not well-negotiated. The starting point should therefore have been strict conditionality, clear rules of play and liability for own debts and the debt mechanism. Our Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also called for the strictness of Finland's responsibilities. The Union for Income Transfers undermines faith in Europe's idea. We are on a dangerous path where, with the result of a negative negotiation, the good and undeniable benefits of our membership of the EU are called into question. This isn't just an accounting exercise. We're a long way from a good solution. The EU's model student did not do the best he could in the negotiations. Of course, the coalition is committed to our values, security and economic community, but we are critical of the outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u21	Congressman Squirrel. — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u22	Mr President! First of all, what is the real issue of this issue between the Finns: This is not about EU policy. This is about the locals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u41	Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to hear a person speaking here who has the floor if there is a parallel programme all the time. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u42	Thank you, Mr President. The European Union's economy has been hit hard. Just recently, the IMF estimates that China and the United States will be able to return their economies to almost pre-emergency levels by 2022, with Europe and other developed economies falling behind 2.5% of the pre-emergency situation. The size of the package is historically large, with a total of EUR 750 billion. In addition to recovery support, the package will finance research, investment and a fair transition to a greener future. Together with the multiannual financial framework of the Union, this amounts to EUR 1.8 trillion for recovery from the interest rate and the achievement of the EU's long-term priorities. Finland’s negotiators’ contribution to the overall solution is the involvement of the rule of law mechanism and strong investments in climate action and RD funding. Mr President! The outcome of the recovery package may not be ideal for Finland with all indicators. It is clear, however, that without the package, the future of the European countries would be dark. In rural areas in particular, we can be satisfied with the successful outcome of the negotiations on peripheral regions and agricultural subsidies and at least with the one-off nature of the package. The recovery package is a unique emergency response to the crisis. As such, it is a one - time and precise solution. The interlocutors have no realistic alternative to the recovery package, only the demands to negotiate a better outcome or cornered ideas about Finland itself. This recovery tool provides Europe with ways of recovering from the economic crisis caused by the interest rate. It stimulates the economy in a way that individual Member States would not be able to do on their own. The recovery package also demonstrates to the rest of the world that the EU is also able to work together in difficult situations. EU unity is in Finland's best interest. As an external border state, we also benefit from the Union's common border policy and as a small country from the EU's common foreign policy. On the other hand, we offer the Union our own expertise in relations with the East, among other things. As a member of the EU, we are shaping the rules of the world's largest internal market for the digital market of the future. As a result of EU membership, our gross domestic product is between 1.2% and 1.7% higher than it would have been if we had not joined the Union. The stronger the EU, the better for Finland. Mr President! We can't allow the Koronapandem to narrow our field of vision. Climate change and the loss of biodiversity continue to threaten the future of all mankind. We must be able to look far and respond to the factors that threaten our planet's carrying capacity. The EU Recovery Instrument therefore offers a huge opportunity to accelerate the transition towards carbon neutrality. With this money, the Government has agreed that Finland bears its own responsibility for combating climate change: at least half of the instrument will be used for this. Finland’s potential for competitiveness is high in knowledge and at the forefront of digitalisation. Targeting the recovery package on these is a sustainable choice. Mr President! The pandemic has also demonstrated the vulnerability of our international system, including the European Union. Our modern society is vulnerable to various disorders, to misinformation about epidemics. We need joint preparation, increasing the resilience of society both at home and at European level. The fight against Koronapandemia in Europe and in the Western world is not enough; the pandemic must be overcome throughout the world. Transformation viruses demonstrate this need in an undisputed way. Unfortunately, the interest rate will not remain the last pandemic as long as we continue to weaken biodiversity and impoverish ecosystems. Mr President! The European Union is a haven for the economy and security of Finland. Together, we will revive the pandemic economy and build a sustainable, greener future. The Government has the confidence of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u43	And now, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u44	Madam President! Europeans need jobs and livelihoods, the prospect of rising from the corona crisis in both health and economic terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u47	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u48	Irade the Talman! Här i sannfinländarnas, KD:s och Movement Nows interpolation upprepas, som ett ganska känslosamt mantra, att Marins regering är beredd attdra in de finländska kattebetalarna i en ond cirkel. Det låter mer rafflande ¤ vad det är sant. Tvärtom är återhämtningspaketti en väg ut från den onda spiral som coronavirus epidemi har förorsakat.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u49	Madam President! Since last summer, the Christian Democrats have considered it important that the EU Recovery Fund and the multiannual financial framework should be kept separate. The economic and deeply principled problems arise from their interlinking. The recovery fund should have been left to those willing to do so. The recovery package will bind Finnish taxpayers for decades to a shared debt and higher membership fees. As debt increases, the pressure increases to increase new own resources, i.e. EU taxes, to pay back the common debt. The Commission envisages not only a plastic tax now being implemented but also taxes on Finnish companies and capital in the future. The Christian Democrats also see that the fund is in flagrant conflict with the well-established interpretation of the EU Treaties that it should not be possible for the Union to have a budget that is in deficit and that it is financed by a joint and several liability. The legal basis used for the recovery fund would also have required that all the criteria for the distribution of funds are based on the consequences of a natural disaster or a similar sudden event, and not even partly on the pre-crisis economic and employment figures. This reveals the real hairs of the package, i.e. fiscal stimulus and transfers to countries in southern Europe where interest rates are already very high and which are unable to carry out structural reforms in their economies. Mr President! The government has justified the adoption of the recovery package with its one-off effect and a revitalizing effect on our export markets. However, several experts have suggested that the package mainly to Southern Europe has no significant direct impact on our exports. Last night we read the leading CPR expert Juha Tervala said that the government’s arguments were wrong, as the CRP fund ‘supports the weaker EU countries with higher GDP ‘and’ there is no reason to claim that the transfer of income would be a sensible way to revive the Finnish economy’. As for the one-off nature of the instrument, hardly anyone believes any more than the government itself. As a result of France, Germany and the ECB, a permanent arrangement has been established for a common debt, which has already been voiced from within the government party. Mr President! The Christian Democrats are concerned about the growth of Finland's overall responsibilities and the state's ability to take care of our citizens' social rights. In the summer, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that it is impossible to assess the exact share and risk of responsibility, because it is due to a number of uncertain events in the future due to a long period of time. Finland's recovery from the recovery fund has already decreased by about half a billion from the original calculations. However, the more worrying aspect of the risk of the arrangement is the 30% target for so-called green bonds in the procurement of funds. The provision of funding must be sufficiently reactive and flexible for loans and grants at different times, but is there already some new green bubble in the financial markets under these framework conditions? Mr President! The Christian Democrats are not opposed to a revival as such, but rather to a revival by tying the Member States to joint debt and transfers of income, contrary to fundamental principles. There is a serious need to discuss where this development will lead. The recovery package is wrecking the Union's legal basis and is leading it to moral hazard. The Member States are thus encouraged to have a lax economy and finally to trust that taxpayers in the countries that do well in their economies will once again pay the bill for the countries that are less well-managed. The role of the loser is played by those who would like to develop European cooperation and the internal market in the independent Member States on the basis of respect for common rules of play, responsible economics and the no bail-out principle. The EU's tax law and the federal state will be pushed forward without the approval of the public. The proposal for a system of own resources threatens to reduce national sovereignty and Parliament's budgetary sovereignty, and we do not have the mandate given to this delegation in the referendum. The Christian Democratic Parliament does not accept the government's decision to participate in the EU's recovery instrument. That is why our parliamentary group supports the motion of censure tabled by Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u50	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u51	Mr President, ärade talman! The recovery package is poorly negotiated. It should be reopened and renegotiated. There are many reasons. The whole package does not really have much to do with recovery, but it keeps the Union together and drives a switch-off lantern towards a federal state. It is a payment for solidarity in Northern Europe and a protection money for the banks of Italy, led by Germany and France, to be held up. For a very long time, the Union cannot be developed in such a way as to live in a field in the south and in the east, and the countries of northern and central Europe will sign the bills nicely. There's no solidarity with that kind of thing. The package distorts competition. In Italy, businesses would receive tens of billions. The net contributor Finland will receive at most a little more than EUR 2 billion of its own money back, and when it is distributed politically and regionally harmoniously, it will leave nothing but crumbs here. It's not about fair competition. Finnish companies leave the back way, which we have arranged ourselves. Besides, the whole aid comes too late. After all, it will be a long time before the plans of the EU countries have been drawn up and adopted. We should be on the move now, and we should have an influence on these issues without the EU and with our own decisions. EU solidarity is increasing year by year. The European Central Bank will provide strong guarantees to the indebted countries in such a way that interest rates on loans are kept to a low level. The role of the ECB is growing too big. This cannot go on indefinitely, even though the government is constantly creating the impression that money is now available. You can't decide the debt rally. What's the government doing? Vice-President Mäkynen of the Prime Minister's Party is talking about corporate taxation tightening. In the morning, Mäkynen said on the radio that there are economists for every departure. [Laughter] There's only one of them. Minister of Finance Vanhanen was realistic when he said that this group, or this government, dares not open corporate taxation, because you have no idea what comes out of it. And that's exactly what this crew looks like. Such a policy was not voted on in the last parliamentary elections to Finland. This same green growth is the fact that the government has promised that fuel prices will no longer be raised. However, Minister Harakka has just told us that they will rise, because they will need to be mixed more with biofuels in the future. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] Mr President, ärade talman! The movement is now pro-European and also for the EU, but we want to take better care of the economy because it is in the interests of Finland. I have negotiated many big agreements in my life, and I am used to the fact that the results will also be evaluated afterwards when the consequences of the agreements are beginning to emerge. Minister Ohio's message to the opposition is that you live in an imaginary world. That's outrageous. Mr Ohio, we are in full reality now that we see what kind of agreement you have negotiated. In the shadow of Korona, Finland is exported to a common debt and to common taxation. When the taxes of the provinces and the EU come after the taxes of the state and the municipalities, there is only one thing that is certain: at least the taxes are not falling.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u52	And now I give the floor to the representatives of the government. — Does no one from the government wish to comment? This is a little surprising.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u53	Mr President! We were prepared that Mr Tuppurainen would use the reply at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u54	Okay. — Then, Minister Tuppurainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u55	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you to the parliamentary groups for these good speeches. Yes, this is an issue on which a political debate must be possible, with all the dimensions involved. Not only is this an economic policy issue, it is also a question of recovery, it is a question of the management of the interest rate, it is a question of Finland's membership of the EU, and this is a question of security policy, and all of these aspects were covered in these speeches. But it may occur to me — after listening to the group speech of the Assembly — to ask what time you were preparing this speech. You spoke quite rightly about the responsibility and conditionality of economic policy and you mentioned the moral hazard, but it does not apply to the present moment where we are, and politics is being done in time. You are talking about a situation that is better suited to the euro crisis and the financial crisis, but with this common solution, to which Finland is committed, we are dealing with this post-coronapandemic situation. It will then be clear that there is a need for different conditionality and a different collective commitment to this solution than in the management of the euro crisis. And if we look at what was done after the euro crisis, then, admittedly, without overestimating those solutions, a rather strict fiscal policy was followed and it was seen as prolonging the recovery from that crisis. Well, now in this situation, our aim is to revive and build new growth. [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group] And in these past years, after the euro crisis, in these times of low interest rates, the potential of central bank policy has already been very well exploited. Now, economists have recommended a common fiscal stimulus to us, and that is what this package is now aimed at instead of each country on its own, in which case an open economy such as Finland in particular would lose those benefits and this demand effect would inevitably run away as imports. We would not achieve alone by revitalising the benefits we are seeking. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: Which country is not an open economy?]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u58	Mr Vanhanen, Minister of Finance, and then we go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u59	Mr President! I'm sorry about the little sarcasm, but if the world comes back, of course we'll handle the 2.8 billion. But that may not be the point at all, [Mauri Peltokankaan intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u66	Now I ask those representatives who want to participate in the debate to press the V button and stand up. And the debatables are one minute long. — Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u67	Mr President! This is beginning to pose a small risk that Minister Tytti Tuppurainen will be the winner of the Nobel Prize for the Economy in the future, because you have made a considerable economic innovation in giving money to rival countries in order to revive its own economy. Minister Vanhanen has reiterated that the countries in the same economic area should carry out transfers in the name of recovery. However, the United States is not giving money to Mexico or Canada, even though it is in the same economic area. Prime Minister Marin, in your reply you said that the government says that this is not a transfer union, even though Finland is starting to make transfers to Italy — okay. Since these precisions were asked and Tuppurainen tried to answer that twice the GDP and x sum of money, then if we really talk about precision, tell us the exact amount, don't tell us that twice a year. Give me the exact amount.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u70	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u71	Mr President! I will speak to my friends, to my colleagues: is it the idea that you imagine your own? . . [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u78	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u79	Mr President! I would just like to reply to Mrs Kanerva. I tried very carefully to listen to what was said in your motion of censure. You said very clearly in there today that the government has failed in the negotiations when this recovery instrument was negotiated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u84	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u85	Madam President! This financial framework and recovery package form a whole. If there is no other, there is no other. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u87	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u88	Mr President! It must be clear to the whole Chamber that Europe, Europe's unity and Europe's competitiveness are being saved here, not just Finland. What matters to Finland is where we target our own resources. Education and knowledge are and still are the things Finland manages to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u91	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u92	Madam President! It seems that Mr Tavio, a group leader, has visited the Black and White Records on the other side of Pitkänsilta. . . [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u95	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u96	Värderade Talman! Programmet för hållbar tillväxt ska göra Finland till ett ledade land när det gäller fyra centrala saker: gröna lösningar, digitalisering, sysselsättningsgraden ska höjaas och social- och älsovårdstjänsterna ska bli mer tillgängliga.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u97	Madam President! Mr Vanhanen rightly said here that some of these Member States were already in very poor oxygen before this crisis. Therefore, in this recovery package, contrary to its own legal basis, it is precisely those past economic figures that are regarded as past employment figures and that is why funding is then being allocated. This is going further and further away from market discipline, from creating pressure for structural reforms in these Member States. When we have a belt here and the government increases the tax burden on citizens, then, at the same time, tax cuts are being made in Italy, a reduced retirement age is being planned, working hours are being reduced. This is incomprehensible, which is why the government has agreed to this type of transfer arrangement. And as one economist said when Italian interest rates fell in the summer, the most important signal of all was the fact that it is now known that other Member States are going to do badly with the countries that have handled their affairs. This is completely the wrong direction for the Union. Now it's time to push the brakes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u98	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u99	Mr President! Since I did not receive an answer to my questions last week, I would ask again: we know that the recovery package is being built under the pretext of a corona — they are closely linked. [Left: Absolutely!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u100	I would remind Members of the recommendation of the Council of Presidents that the mask should be used in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u101	Mr President, ärade talman! I would like to return to this precision. When the government gives the impression that this precision is 2.8 billion, it is true: it is 2.8 billion every year during this next EU budget period, i.e. it is about 20 billion in total, and it will come again during the next budget period. And this guarantee does not only apply to this loan, but also to any country that fails to pay its membership fees or some other payment due. I would like to point out from this that we are not always talking about just that EUR 2.8 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u102	And now, Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u103	Mr President! I will start with this last one, because Mr Tavio asked about this same issue, which is precisely this maximum liability and precision. This recovery instrument limits the maximum annual financial responsibilities of the Finnish State in all situations, i.e. in all situations, to a double share of GDP, including any additional requests for payments in exceptional circumstances. Thus, Finland’s maximum calculated liability can amount to EUR 2.8 billion per year in current figures. The reduction and accuracy of responsibilities were a prerequisite for Finland to be able to accept this compromise on the recovery instrument in the summer of 2020. If liability had not been limited in such a way and the agreement had been based on the original Commission proposal, Finland's maximum imputed liability could have increased several times in extreme cases. Now it is limited to 2.8 billion annually. If, then, the situation were to arise that a Member State could not manage its own contribution to this whole, then we would probably be discussing this situation again in the real world. This maximum liability of more than 2.8 billion Finland cannot rise, but it is likely that, in such a situation, we would all come together to see how the situation in this country could be brought about by its own responsibility — it would not be as if a Member State were in such a difficult situation that it would not be able to take care of its own responsibilities in this whole. So it is likely that this will happen in the real world that the situation in that Member State will then be looked through very carefully. But we therefore have the maximum liability clearly defined. Mr Kanerva put a question here as to why he would not answer the questions. Well, my own answer to the question made by the Finns of Peru was worded in a very clear way to answer all the questions asked in the question. In fact, that whole answer was formulated in such a way that the question by question was examined and answered. Then there was the question of conditionality. As far as this is concerned, the conditionality that Finland has considered important has been realised. For example, the inclusion of the rule of law not only in the Multiannual Financial Framework but also in this recovery instrument has been one of the most important issues for us. That is what we managed to achieve, and in that, the European Parliament also did important work. And another major condition is climate conditionality: a large part of this funding must be used for climate action, and this has been the goal required by Finland. Similarly, the whole reform that will be done for this recovery instrument in a more digital, competitive Europe is in Finland's interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u104	For the record, I meant that it is not so tied up with group speakers, nothing more.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u105	Mr President! First, I must remind Mr Kalmar that please read some of the blogs of your comrade Mauri Pekkarinen. On 17 December, or exactly two months ago, he told us what was going on. Otherwise, we have been called for an alternative. After all, we have a very clear alternative: each EU country takes out the amount it needs, revives it, and the Commission coordinates it in a sensible way. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: It's not that radical!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u106	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u107	Madam President! Referring to Mrs Kankaanniemi's excellent speech and the speech she has just made, we do not agree with the text of the interim issue of the rest of the opposition because we are not flirting, we are not even thinking about the European referendum, the European Union is different from the European Union, even in this time of the world. It would be catastrophic for Finns. We strongly defend Finland's membership of the EU. But what we are going to vote against is precisely this economic solution that has now been made. The headlines may be good that conditionality has been achieved in climate change or post-column growth, but when you go to content, then we will be very critical. We believe that, in the context of the negotiated solution, support for recovery from the interest rate will be directed directly towards issues that have already been broken before the interest rate, should have adhered to Finland's long-term economic policy line, calling for firm debt sustainability, the debt mechanism, conditionality, precisely so that money is directed throughout Europe towards achieving sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u109	Congressman Halla-aho. — Representative, microphone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kalmari said that the recovery package and the financial framework form a whole and would not be one without another. In other words, in Finnish: if you do not accept the recovery package, you will not have a financial framework or agricultural subsidies. Now we have to ask whether this is the best thing a city centre can do in its municipal panic. The recovery package should not be linked to the financial framework. [AnttiCall]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u111	Congressman Mykkänen. — He had asked for the floor a moment ago. — Mr Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u112	Mr President! After all, this is not about what the government parties here are doing beautifully, what all the beautiful money is being spent on. After all, the Member States have a duty to revive and the ECB has a responsibility of its own. The main question now is how to obtain this money, whether a new mandate is being introduced. Now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made these comments: First of all, with regard to the loosening of the terms of the ESM loans to the government, he made a remark in May that there should be strict economic policy conditions. The government did not comply with this condition. Then last summer the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave clear notes that a particular package should not be promoted or accepted, and I do not know what the Prime Minister's comments were when it was read whether this statement had been taken into account. Now that we see what the Prime Minister says in this speech, it is said here that the great committee determines the legitimacy of constitutional law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u113	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u114	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to thank Mr Kanerva for his excellent contributions to this debate. One of the best speeches I have heard in this Chamber in my short parliamentary career — thanks for this very intelligent and constructive approach, although we do not agree with everything. Mr President! In my opinion, Finland's control countries are Nordic countries, and if we look at how Sweden and Denmark are working at the moment: they are both bigger net contributors to EU funding than we are. They are not euro countries. They are behind this support package, the recovery package, and there is hardly any public debate of this kind in Sweden, for example, which is currently taking place in the Finnish Parliament. Mr President! I would like to ask the Finns of Finland what are your analogue countries. Are they Belarus and Albania, for example, who are not in the EU? Could you tell us directly whether you are in favour of Finland’s membership of the EU or not? [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u115	Representative Niikko and then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u116	Mr President! At first, the centre threw its conscience out of the Chamber in the form of Hoskose, and then it tries to tell the people a story that the farms will run out of milk unless we give billions to the countries of southern Europe. This story isn't real, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u119	Prime Minister Marin, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u120	Mr President! As far as Mr Häkkänen's speech is concerned, I did not recognize the quote that you put in my mouth, as it were. Here, in my own speech, it reads: ‘The expert’s estimates have also been successful in forming a large committee in forming the position of the Parliament as anindicative basis for Finland’s activities Is there a mistake in your view? This goes on to say: ‘The Grand Committee consulted, for example, professors of European law and In their opinions to the committee, the experts agreed that the adoption of the package was not accompanied by EU or constitutional problems.’ I am sure that the chairman of the large committee, Satu Hassi, can open up this whole more. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has paid attention to a number of issues, and it is these that the Government has tried to find solutions. That is why we have set out in our negotiating objectives that this contribution should be reduced, and that is where we succeeded: 110 billion less aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u123	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u124	Madam President! The European Union is an extremely important community of values, security and economics for the assembly. The core of our criticism is the responsibility of the Member States for their own finances and debts. We have proposed a debt mechanism to prepare for these over-indebtedness countries, as the Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, described: those with weak oxygen, who have been in the economic crisis year after year, to get on their feet. This is what we have proposed, and in order for this package to remain truly unique, it would also require that we focus on restoring market discipline and preparing this debt mechanism.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u127	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u128	Mr President! We have heard a lot of criticism from the opposition in this Chamber about how we should not have done it, but few alternatives. The opposition criticised the lack of targeting of these EU recovery funds, which should have been fully targeted at interest rate effects. Mr Halla-aho, this would have meant that Italy, Spain, Belgium, France — they would only have received an even greater share of this. Easy to criticize, but no choice. It is then criticised that the Commission should not define how much money is being spent on climate or digitalisation. Well, in fact, I think that if these are used for green technology, then the Finnish worker will win, Finnish industrial jobs will win. But the last option was heard from Mr Kankaanniemi: he said that the Member States themselves will be in debt and the Commission will coordinate. What would that have meant for Finland, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u132	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u133	Mr President! Perhaps, Prime Minister, the main question that worries me is whether we are now opening the door to a different EU than we are used to with the agreements. A lot of experts — and there is no need to be an expert — estimate that when crises occur, we will be using this same tool. This raises the question of whether it is really the case that the EU, politically — that is to say, the political decision, is — is afraid that when interest rates have risen as in Italy a year ago — the ECB put 750 billion, and now the EU is jointly going there to provide aid and lend 750 billion — then whether this is the right way to start solving the problems in Italy that are decades old. And if you will allow me, Mr President, this legal service of the Council stated: ‘It is a service of interest that the Commission’s proposal has not been seen before and in principle, in terms of quality and size. It openly notes that this type of
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u134	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u135	Mr President! For my part, I would like to take this debate a little further. A little fact check. When it comes to saying that The United States is reviving its own economy, that is true, but the United States is currently reviving many other countries, especially those who buy products from US companies. When it is said that China is reviving its own economy, this is also true, but China simultaneously revives many countries in the environment that buy Chinese products, such as even India. At this point when I see that others are also reviving their markets and economies around them, would it not be reasonable for the EU not to lag behind, but to revitalize together so that it can be a strong market leader rather than a follower on these issues? This is a fact check: others are also revitalizing others.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u136	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u137	Excuse me, Madam Speaker. It took me a while to find that microphone. During this parliamentary term, there has often been talk of the EU in this Chamber, and then it often comes to the answer that we do not really use the word now that we do not agree when it has to be used prudently and with caution in precisely those situations when we really need it. And as our party chairman Halla-aho said, Finland could have said that we have now met the limit. You could have used that card this time. If you look at the result of this agreement: like I'm going to buy apples for 100 euros and I'm told you'll get 50, and in a few moments they'll tell me that your situation is actually so good that maybe you'll get 10 or maybe 0. Do you think this is a good deal? You are talking about precision, but there is no limit to that threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u138	Congressman Mäkynen, Matias.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u139	Mr President! I see Mr Harkimo has already left, but I would have told him and disappointed him: there are two Mäky Vaasas here in the hall. But there really are economists for every move. The Finns also have the right to refer to their own — you clearly have your own economists. The majority of economists believe that Finland benefits from this package and that Finland should be involved in this package. It also directly benefits Finland's economic growth and employment, especially when it is coordinated in such a way that these funds are directed towards reviving the green transition and promoting digitalisation. In these areas, we have Finnish top companies that can take part in competitions and win them in Europe. You are calling for the package to be tied to the effects of the interest rate and, at the same time, you are criticising the fact that these effects of the interest rate are being taken into account. There's no logic here. We need precisely the time to see that when the effects of the interest rate are taken into account, we will only see them after this crisis. At the same time, money needs to be mobilised now, so it requires that we also have to look back on the earlier economic figures on the basis of which this money is being mobilised. So we have to compromise:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u140	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u141	Mr President! Mr Lindtman rightly said that if interest rate damage were a determining criterion for the distribution of money, Finland would lose even more. However, the Finns have criticised the fact that this recovery package is being marketed to Member States and their citizens through a corona epidemic, even though the corona epidemic is not a determining criterion for the distribution of money. Above all, we are against gift money, we are against debt solidarity and internal transfers in general. There is no lack of logic here, as is claimed from there. Mr Kurvinen again wants to see whether we are in favour of leaving the European Union. I quote myself: ‘The interest of Finlandis notin the Union which breaks its rules,has the potential of citizens of the
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u144	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u145	Mr President! Mr Halla-aho, it is a question of you and your troops, on a broad front here, questioning and criticising why Finland's share in the recovery is so small, and when you yourself have said in July that the allocation criteria should have taken into account only the effects of the interest rate — you thought that it was only the effects of the interest rate — it is completely illogical at the same time to criticise the outcome of the negotiations that Finland would receive too little of it. That's what this is all about. The question is that you know how to criticise, but you cannot tell us what to do. On the other hand, the purpose of this package is also to bring Europe on its feet, to bring Europe back to life and, at the same time, to promote a green transition. Mr Halla-aho, your path would lead Finland out of the European Union, but you are afraid to say it out loud. You're afraid, Congressman Halla-aho!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u147	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u148	Madam President! It's quite a theater show again. Actually, I don't think the smartest of you even believe those explanations and arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u153	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u154	Madam President! Mr Halla-aho asked what kind of European Union we want to build. Yes, the centre wants to build a Nordic European Union, as Denmark and Sweden do. We want to work with the Netherlands, we want to work with Germany to make the EU the most competitive economic area in the world. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u155	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u156	Mr President! Legally, it is just as the Prime Minister said. After a detailed analysis of the Commission’s proposal by the EU Council of Ministers’ legal services, all the legal experts consulted by the Constitutional Committee and the large committee considered that the matter has been clarified, the EU’s compliance with the Treaties has been clarified. [Right : No place to hold! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u157	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u158	Madam President! We've been asked if we need to resuscitate or not. The answer is ‘yes’,but the Treaties comply with thejanobail-out principle. Under the EU Treaty, the EU is not allowed to finance Member States, to take up debt or to levy taxes. The French President, Mr Macron, is pleased that Europe has taken a historic step in establishing an agreement and creating a mechanism to manage the common debt. Christine Lagarde, President of the European Central Bank, has also said that the Recovery Fund should be a permanent tool for the Union. [Basic Finns Group : Just like! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u159	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u160	Mr President! With the interest rate, the European Union is in a situation where the need for funding is growing and... [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : RepresentativeElooma,you do not have a microphone head. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u163	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u164	Mr President! So much for this substance side of the debate: my friend, Mr Tuppurainen, you said in your own speech that debt sustainability is the snow of the past winter. My question is, why? That debt sustainability is no longer a risk for Finland, and you let us understand, so you said, but right now it would have been the golden moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u165	Ladies and gentlemen! The first 45 minutes of this debut have now been spent, and at this stage it is possible to change fields. — Like this. And as everyone has taken their place, I ask you again, as usual, to press the V button and stand up. — Mr Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u166	Mr President! The True Finns say that the government will not answer questions, but when people are asked whether you want to leave the EU, you will answer: foie gras. When we ask if you want to revive, you answer: Italian banks. When we ask if you have forgotten the corona, you answer: Moscow card. Honourable Finns, this line of yours is shriveled, introverted, torn up by quarrels and reconciled with an incapacitated Europe. Such a Europe cannot overcome such a crisis, such an interest rate. What you are thinking here is, above all, that this common market, our internal market, cannot emerge from this crisis. This means that goods, services, capital and people will no longer be able to move freely in the future. I would therefore also like to ask the honourable assembly: Could you reconsider this attitude of yours? Is this really the case that you have made such a change of direction in your European policy and have taken such a strong position on the side of the Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u167	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u168	Mr President! I am very much in favour of membership of the European Union. I warmly support Finland's integration into Europe and believe that this is a key interest for our country. This does not mean, however, that we should accept without criticism and without questioning any performance that has just been struck on a blue background with 12 golden stars. In fact, a true friend of Europe is clearly concerned about the direction in which the European Union is developing, whether it is developing in a sustainable way, and, if necessary, is prepared to criticise solutions which do not meet these criteria. Nor is it insignificant either, which is the legitimacy of the European Union from the point of view of its citizens. If the European Union suddenly starts to develop in a way that takes into account its interpretation of the Treaties, which has been expressly considered legally impossible in the past, then it is the case,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u169	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u170	Mr President! We're talking about the past here, aren't we? In his opening speech, the Prime Minister said that it would be in Finland's interest to be part of the European Union. Well, whether it's like this or not, it's not like we're talking about it. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u171	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u172	Mr President! It is in Finland's interest that the whole of Europe should recover. It is clear that a deep and long recession in the EU would also undermine the preconditions for Finland's economic recovery. Europe needs recovery, and a coordinated recovery is clearly the best option. Of course, the recovery instrument is not perfect, but it is important that Europe now jointly revives the real economy, saves and generates jobs, supports sectors and creates new green investments. Mr President! And especially the honourable members of the Assembly! Nor can we underestimate the value of the fact that this solution will also safeguard political stability in this time of crisis and that the EU will remain capable of decision-making during a deep corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u175	Irade the Talman! This has been criticised for the outcome of the negotiations, and it is easy to criticise the outcome of the negotiations when it was not there. That does not mean, of course, that it should not be discussed, and it is good that we are discussing it, but when we have about 1% of Europe's population in Finland, then if we get a solution in terms of demarcation, respect for the rule of law, clear criteria, then the result will be quite good. That has been very well done at the time, and especially if you consider that the contribution of the opposition to the debate was ideas that would have reduced our yield, then there will be a loss of criticism of the outcome of the negotiations. The EU is not an accounting exercise. Nor is it just a matter of recovery, but it is a larger community of values. And when we speculate on this by EU separation and referendum, it is worth following closely what is happening in Great Britain. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u176	And now, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u177	Mr President! This recovery package is a compromise, after all. It is important to understand and understand, and I think that the citizens who follow the debate will understand it. This was and is a mega-level political decision. And just as Mr Sarkkinen said a moment ago, look at this big picture. In particular, I could throw the question to the people of Peru: would Finland have had to leave the European Union in the middle of a severe corona crisis last summer? [From the Fundamentals Group: Who told you that? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u178	Congressman Gustafsson, time is up. — And now, Mr Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u179	Mr President! The first thing to do is to thank Mr Kalmar. I have never heard so many references to the Finns in one minute, thank you for that. There are two things in this package that are completely illogical. The second is that quite often you hear that the EU brings us security, but what has happened to Greece? Turkey is going to invade it from the sea, from the land and from the air. What has the EU done? Nothing. In fact, the EU countries are still selling weapons to Turkey. The second question is this one-off. At the same time as you claim that this is a hugely brilliant package and that this is a tremendous revival, you say that this is a one-off. If this is such a great package, then why is it a one - time package? Should this not be repeated and repeated all the time if we want to revive and this is the right way to do it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u180	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u181	Mr President! It must be acknowledged that the opposition has also come up with very good speeches demanding market discipline for economic policy, and in that respect I will sign them, but the fact is, of course, that when the discipline of economic policy had not been followed for many countries in the EU for the past decade, it has not come to the table with the corona. Of course, it would be great if the line that the Coalition Party is taking here was also present in the European negotiations with your sister parties, because the Finnish Government was one of these strictest countries with this package. Of course, it should be recognised that the government was hardly unanimous on all economic policy issues now, so it has already been a compromise in many respects. In the direction in which the EU's future economic policy will go, the centre will certainly share the concerns of the opposition as to why these reforms are always deepening the fiscal union and not increasing market discipline.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u182	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u183	Mr President! In this context, it has often been mentioned that those who are critical of the recovery package are, at the same time, sceptical about the existence of the EU as a whole. This conclusion is wrong. I believe that the core issues are to be reminded of the Union's important fundamental tasks which are now being expanded. The European Union must therefore now be protected from itself in order to safeguard its future. The problem with the recovery package is that the same cannot be ruled out in the future. It does not focus sufficiently on strengthening knowledge and research, but even allows some Member States to continue with their lax approach. The debts will be shared in the future. So I ask the Prime Minister: how do you feel that the recovery package obliges the Member States to put their economies in order to find sustainability in future crises?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u184	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u185	Mr President! In the very first speech, Mrs Halla-aho said that criticism is not populism. Well, not all criticism is, but a large part is what has been heard here today, including a large part of the reasoning behind this interim issue and these speeches about foie gras. So I would like that criticism to be analytical and sensible. The need for joint resuscitation is widely recognised. There are certainly dozens of different views in this Chamber and hundreds or thousands more throughout Europe. That is why, of course, the final package is a negotiated compromise, and when we look at the outcome and the Parliament's response to that negotiation, I believe that in this case it will increase confidence in the government, by no means diminishes it. So it's exactly the priorities that were invented here, that's where they took us. In addition, it is a little unusual for the spectators to rise to EU own funds or to own taxes. I personally would see that the stronger the Union stands with its own resources, the better, more effective and fairer it is. In addition, as has been pointed out here, it is at EU level that smart taxes can be targeted at challenges that are better tackled at international level than at national level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u186	I did, and let us take Mr Tanus, and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u187	Mr President! The rule of law was made conditional on the recovery instrument, said the Prime Minister recently, but can the rule of law not be relied upon by the public to comply with the Treaties? When we dealt with this matter in the Constitutional Committee, it was quite clear to the experts and they sent out a message that the Council's judicial services have said that this type of interpretation has never been at hand before, and never before, in accordance with the Treaties. The interpretation is completely new. Sometimes in that traffic you can walk up against the reds when the red looks green. If you gas the car lane against the red one, you can explain that the red one looked green, or you can interpret that the red one looked green, or it really looked green to someone. It can cause damage not only to yourself, to many others, but in any case, even when you slip out of it well, it is illegal. These movements, these solutions to the recovery instrument, are contrary to the Treaty, no matter how they were explained.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u188	The time has come. — Now Prime Minister Marin, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u189	Mr President! A few questions to answer. The representative of Estonia asked about the debt mechanism, and last week this question was answered. This is part of our EU report, and this is something that the government wants to promote. Of course, it must be understood that there is a corona pandemic and this recovery instrument is a completely different whole from this one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u194	Like this. — and Mr Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u195	Mr President! The Committee on Finance heard from researcher Juha Tervala on macro-economics that in the 2010s the impact of the fiscal stimulus in Northern Europe on the Southern European economy was very limited due to the limited trade between the south and the north. The same goes for the other way around: according to Tervala, the recovery package may even weaken both Finland’s fiscal balance and economic growth. The Centre Party's group speech reminded us of the old folk wisdom that the stick is always cheating. Even this billion-dollar donation to foreign countries is supposed to be one-off, even though they know better. It is worth listening, not to the coalition, but to the experience and representative of the Judge-in-Office. He has come to the conclusion that this will not be a one-off. If the city center was earlier... [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Representative Junnila,the newly lost microphone sound. [Foresday: Oh, I'm sorry! I'm trying to get out!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u198	And Mr. Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u199	Mr President! I am perplexed by these speeches about the countryside and agriculture of the people of Peru. I listened very carefully to what Mr Halla-aho said, including Mr Niiko. There is not much left of the heirs of the SMP to defend the Finnish countryside. It was sometimes said that the French socialist is the best defender of European agriculture. We must now thank the Prime Minister of the SDP for the result of the negotiations that you have produced for Finnish agriculture and Finnish rural areas. Could you, Madam Prime Minister, open up a little of this whole, both this recovery instrument and then this EU financial framework, their coherence? If we were to go on the Finnish Standard Finnish line, how would the Finnish farmer then do? I think it might be a cold ride.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u200	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u202	Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u203	Mr President! The coalition is a strong supporter of EU membership, but just as Mr Sankelo said earlier, for example, does not mean that we accept everything that comes from the EU. We do believe that this solution, the recovery package and its own resources, is not the best solution for the recovery of the EU, and that is why we have reservations about this. I would at least like to ask you, Prime Minister, why this recovery package had to involve the EU's own resources. Why, for example, did it not use the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism, which was created at the time of the financial crisis? Why did this have to be confused with the EU's seven-year financial framework?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u204	Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u205	Mr President! Last year, I asked Minister Vanhanen about the money created with the debt and the possible moral hazard. This corona package is on top of the ECB's huge purchasing programmes and responsibilities. Purchasing programmes were launched years before the corona. The Minister replied, among other things, that the monetary system was based on generally shared trust. The interest package has been created for an acute need and has a more precise operating framework, but the corona package is not unique or one-off, but is based on the same mechanism that creates no money from scratch. This is not the last pandemic or crisis, and I am sure that similar solutions will continue to be made, just the name is different.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u207	Let us take Mr Juvonen and then Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u208	Mr President! This corona crisis is a major social and health crisis. The government does not seem to have enough empathy for workers who work there under pressure. When are you gonna bring the nurses a coronal? The Finnish people are getting their hands on this resuscitation package. You are prepared with debt money to revive and resuscitate Europe. Finland receives EUR 2.7 billion but costs EUR 6.6 billion. It's a net loss of three billion dollars. How do you explain this as a good deal and a good deal with Europe? Why aren't you looking at what's best for Finland? This package cannot be justified by the fact that it will revive the whole world or Europe. We need to revitalize our own Finland and consider the way in which possible resuscitation money is spent in Finland. I am very concerned that we will only be talking in a year's time, when we will know how much recovery money we will receive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u209	Now, Minister Tuppurainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u210	Mr President! Finland's strength is a Europe-friendly approach, and that means that we take our own greetings and interests to the tables where the affairs of this continent are decided. The pro-Europeanism of this government does not mean that we accept all of what comes out of it, but, just as Mr Kiljunen described here, we take decisions here and influence the European tables. And now we have the whole thing in our hands. This own resources decision is up to Parliament, it is up to the parliaments of all the Member States to decide, and we as the Government have considered that the whole is finally acceptable to Finland and the interests of Finland. I will answer some of the questions that have been raised here, Mr President. I've been asked about a one-time thing. — Yes, this is a one-off instrument, this has been agreed unanimously. If this instrument were ever to be renewed in the future, it would require a decision-making process similar to that in the context of this instrument, including the parliamentary contribution. A one-off recovery instrument — this does not create any permanent transfers of income, but the funds must be used within 3 years for this corona pandemic, from it to recovery. President! The question was whether this created a debt of solidarity. — This does not create a solidarity debt for the EU, and in particular we do not take up the existing debts of other countries. Finland's responsibilities have been accurately described and limited, just as the Prime Minister has previously replied here. The question was raised about Treaty compliance, and this was an issue on which the Government spent a lot of time following the heavy speeches of the Constitutional Committee. We explained this and received an opinion from the Council's services, which, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also said, greatly alleviated the concerns. The Government has decided that this is in line with the Treaties. The legal basis can be found in Article 122: an exceptional situation such as a natural disaster, allowing Member States to help others financially. This is also in line with the budgetary balance requirement, and to this end the recovery instrument [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u211	I'm sure you will. — Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u212	Mr President! There Mr Junnila referred to Juha Tervala's statements to the Finance Committee. After all, he effectively patched up his own positions in Helsingin Sanomat and stated that the end result was strongly positive for Finland as regards EU membership, even though he criticised the claim that this direct use of EU money in Finland would somehow mobilise exports to Southern Europe. That is not the case, but we have just heard an example from France when the Finnish Ambassador to Paris said that the French recovery plan is now ready. There 40 billion will receive this EU grant money and 60 billion will be put out of their own budget, a package of 100 billion. Then there'll be private money on top of it. When this is proportionate to the rest of the European Union, we are talking about an investment market that opens up to more than 1000 billion. If it is reasonably thought that there is a very large part of the areas favourable to Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u213	This is how full the time is, and the turn is passed on to Congressman Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u214	Mr President! Prime Minister, you said that the debt mechanism is not part of this, that it is different. It's wrong. That is precisely what it is, or should I say that it should have been. When a new mechanism is created to distribute solidarity debt, the debt mechanism should logically have been brought to the table in line with Finland's European policy, because it would have been an opportunity for us to have a southern Europe, which has opposed the debt mechanism, to accept this as a response to this particularly favourable new recovery instrument. It would have been particularly a part of this, but it is no wonder that it was not negotiated if it was not understood what it means.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u215	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u216	Mr President! This is about Finland's economic sovereignty. The greatest threat to that sovereignty is by no means the United States, China or Russia. The biggest threat is the EU and Finland’s sitting government — a government that denies the facts. The current President of the ECB, Mr Lagarde, is pushing for a common, joint, debt-funded budget for the EU. Mario Draghi, former President of the ECB, became Prime Minister of Italy with the aim of establishing common budgetary resources for the euro area. Merkel in Germany and Macro in France are doing exactly the same thing. Mr Government, how are you going to stop the hard-core intentions of EU policy, or are you going to?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u217	Congressman Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u218	Mr President! Much of the economic experts are on the side of this package, and we in the government want to trust the experts. Finland should be involved in this package. Politics is about the whole thing. It is really easy to remove a small piece, call it an apple, justify it with flying phrases and get attention. But in real life, however, it is always a matter of entities, and it ultimately means and determines. That is why Finland is in the package, together with Europe, to stimulate future growth. If Europe were to get into a bad economic crisis because of the interest rate and if nothing were done, these responsibilities of EUR 4 billion in Finland would be very small in that regard. It is therefore worth using this method to avoid a crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u219	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u220	Mr President! There are so many countries and exports listed here that there are a few things we have to cling to. Finland's exports to EU countries accounted for a total of 55 per cent in 2019. There alone, exports to Italy, Spain and Greece amounted to 5.6% — that is to say, only Italy, Spain and Greece account for 5.6% of Finland's exports, for example in Russia. It is therefore difficult to understand why Finnish companies would not benefit from the recovery of the EU internal market. They'll just get the better of you. The recovery instrument creates demand for the EU, i.e. a demand of EUR 750 billion, and thus the recovery will also support exports from Finnish companies. It is just that the EU internal market is our main market and its recovery is an integral part of the recovery of our economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u221	Like this. — Mr Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u222	Mr President! A few withdrawals from today's different things, topics that have been going on. The Prime Minister told me that he proved that the recovery instrument would not create a federal state. Well, certainly not yet, but this development may lead to it very quickly. Mr Arhinmäki was a great admirer of the EU's future taxation. Does he, then, have the objective of transferring all national taxes to Brussels? Congressman Kalmari brought up the municipalities. That is how much I can tell him that now this government frenzy will be paid for in the municipalities. All our children will then have to take part in these efforts in the future. When Mr Al-Taee made a good point when he said that we should now support those countries that buy products, should we then support Sweden and Germany, perhaps, perhaps? But the question for the government is: How well are you on the map that now that we are entering this package there is no return, the door closes?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u223	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u224	Mr President! Representative Ranne, like the Finns, said that where the EU, there is a problem. I would like to remind you that Mr Kankaanniemi's model of this corona recovery was for each country to revive itself and give its budget to the EU to monitor whether the recovery has taken place correctly. I think this is an incomprehensible idea from the Finns. Is this how you want to subdue our own decision-making? I simply do not understand this process of thought.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u225	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u226	Mr President! Finland has an alternative to opt out of the recovery package. No evidence has been provided from the decision-makers that the adoption of the package is absolutely necessary. In fact, the package violates the rule of law in the EU Treaty. After all, Finnish taxpayers are now becoming the payers of the economies of the over-indebted countries of southern Europe, even if the alternative would be to spend the money to revive Finland. For the Red-Green Government, the political significance of the package seems to be greater than its economic importance. By adopting the package, you will continue to accept joint and several liabilities and the move towards economic federal development. This is not the EU we Finnish citizens are committed to. It is therefore a place for Finland to be bigger than it is and to reject this unfavourable package, for neither the EU nor any other EU country is in the national interest of Finland. So I ask you, my dear government: you are often concerned about the way in which Poland and Hungary, for example, adhere to the rule of law. Are you not concerned at the fact that the EU's own recovery package in itself undermines or even degrades the importance of the rule of law? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u227	Congressman Kinnunen, Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u228	Mr President! It is a real shame that the Finns of Peru are creating questionable images of the European Union and of the European recovery package now under discussion — we have heard these different views today, as you have said. The Finns of Peru are doing everything in their power to make it harder for the European Union and Finland to recover from the corona and this major crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u232	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u233	Mr President! Mr Marin, how do you ensure that these countries in southern Europe, which we are funding all the time, have to make tough structural decisions in their economies so that this sometimes ends? This will be borne by the Finnish taxpayer, who is already suffering. Representative Kosonen pointed out that the government trusts experts. That's a nice thing to say, but it only happens when it's for your own good. This period has also seen a number of cases where expert statements have wiped the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u235	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u236	Mr President! I am Finnish and I am European, I am also pro-European and pro-European – there are no two words about it. But, Prime Minister Sanna Marin, this package is poorly negotiated for Finland — there are no two words about it either. It was a mistake to leave this doll outside the foursome. It is not good to be alone in the EU, nor is it good to be alone. The EU, contrary to its own treaties, is taking on a common debt. The EU is introducing common EU taxes. The overall solution will also increase the EU's already large budget. The foundations of the EU, Mr President, are nagging. It is very difficult for me to see this type of solution that makes sense to Finland, and I do not see that it makes sense to the EU either. Unfortunately, I cannot support this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u237	Let us take Mr Hopsu and then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u238	Mr President! In the previous speech, however, one wonders whether it would not have been precisely that decision of the Assembly that would have left us alone. But a few reflections on Europe's own resources. We discussed air tax here last spring. At that time, several groups called for Finland to be able to await a joint EU decision. However, new own resources based on environmental impacts, such as the plastic charge, are now strongly criticised. Is it not to be welcomed that this will prevent some countries from travelling freely in environmental activities while at the same time creating room for manoeuvre for Members' payments? And also for the people of Peru: I am amazed at these misconceptions about the official and foie gras of Rysälä. If you think it's important, let's stick to the arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u239	Like this. — And now Minister Vanhanen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u240	Mr President! In the EU, Finland also cooperates closely with the dummies of dummies. We haven't left them anywhere. The Nuukka Four countries are all in this package, both in normal financial development and in this recovery instrument, far greater net contributors than Finland. They did not relax this package and I have not heard rumours from it that any of them would also reject it in the national ratification decision. They are hugely larger net contributors than Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u245	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u246	Mr President! Prime Minister, what is worrying about this is that in Italy one year ago, when interest rates rose to 15%, the ECB had to intervene immediately, put 750 billion into the game, and now that you have set up — circumventing the EU budget rules, agreements on the European Union — outside the EU budget — the special reserve, we now have two tools. And this is solidarity, money has been donated and money has been borrowed and debt taken over, but the EU legal service has been managed to accept this structure, as it were. Now there is the ECB — the German constitution restricts its use — and now a special reserve has been created, so that which one is used? Is this endless when this economic view is that you take debt and when the problem arises, interest rises, then someone always finances more? Is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u247	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u248	Mr President! First of all, Mr Heinose, who had left: I understand that last June, however, the representatives of the Coalition Party in the Committee on Budgets lodged an objection in which they stated: ‘The Commission’s intention to raise the EU’s own resources is to be supported. A more sustainable EU funding base would reduce the pressure to increase Member States’ contributions.” Ladies and gentlemen, are you still behind this? And, of course, it would be nice to hear the answer from Heinos. However, Mr President, we would also need answers from Halla-aho. Are you really behind the line that in Europe this recovery should now be done in such a way that the Member States take debt and then the Commission is the one who coordinates how this debt is used, that is, the debt that has been used here in Finland, for example, to take on the attack, to support municipalities, to support people, to support businesses? Should these decisions have been asked first of all by the Commission? Is this really?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u249	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u250	Mr President! Of course, there is no need for a supranational body or Commission to monitor the use of money and recovery measures in countries such as Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u253	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, perhaps the most important opening of the day for the Finns, that the loan would be given to the supranational body, the Commission, is quite harsh to hear in this Chamber, but now it has been proved — as cold a ride as the policy of the Finns would be for regional policy, provinces and farmers. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u255	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u256	Mr President! Yes, the coalition is a member of the largest party in Europe, the People's Party, and we have had countless debates on these. It is precisely the responsibility of the debt, the principle of responsible financial management, the responsibility of each country for its own debts, and, if aid is given, it is conditional, which affects us all. Similarly, we have raised the issue of the need for the EU to focus in particular on those issues that benefit us. In this connection, I would also like to point out that I regret that, when the multiannual financial framework was combined with this, there was a significant cut in funding for defence, security and research of the utmost importance to Finland, among others, in the same compromise that was reached in the summer. Yes, Mr Könttä, we are making a sound on these matters, but these decisions are taken at the head table and in the Council of Ministers, not at the meeting of the EPP Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u257	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u258	Mr President! I cannot help but react to this last speech by Mr Orpo. You here, on the one hand, criticise the fact that this package is large and, on the other hand, for example, with regard to this multiannual financial framework, you would have liked it to have been even bigger, as the Commission had suggested. We pushed for a moderate package on the multiannual financial framework, and that is where we succeeded. Congressman Kauma asked about his own funds. These own resources consist of the following traditional revenues: they include customs duties, VAT own resource, then this new plastic levy and a GDP-based own resource. In addition to these, the Commission will examine and perhaps also present other new own resources, such as the taxation of digital giants or carbon duties, but these will be the subject of separate proposals, which we have not yet dealt with. They will be dealt with in due course when we have them. I personally consider them to be very good, but it is not possible to take a position on them yet, because no proposals have been received. Mr Heinonen then asked about this cooperation with the four of the doll and, as it were, suggested here why Finland left the four of the dummy out. Well, that's not the case. In fact, we worked very closely with the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark and Austria on the fact that we managed to reduce this amount of aid by EUR 110 billion compared to the original proposal. We worked very closely together on this and, for example, on the rule of law, as on many other issues. We have not left this group of countries aside, but on the contrary we have worked closely with them and together managed to negotiate this whole much better than it was originally. Mr Koponen then asked about the economies of southern Europe and the economic situation in the countries. I do think that we should find better solutions to the situation in the EU Member States in the future. We must get every Member State into such an economic situation that together we can be stronger. But in this crisis in which we are in the midst, it should be noted that this is a global pandemic which is very serious both in health and in economic terms. This crisis, this pandemic, is not due to the country's economy. This is because the corona virus is rampant in every country. We're in the middle of this pandemic, all of us. This is not a crisis in Italy or in Greece or in any other economy; it is a pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u260	And Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u261	Mr President! The conclusion of this debate is that the EU policy of the Assembly is unclear. You repeat one speech after another, how pro-European you are and how pro-European you are in Finland, but you hear the growing criticism of the EU, and I would like to remind you that responsibility for the opposition can also be assumed. Do not fall into this temptation of populism. President! I would like to answer this question about conditionality, which was also the subject of the group statement by the Assembly. Yes, there is conditionality in this package, but it is a condition adapted to this corona pandemic. [Pettering]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u264	Like this. — And now the time has passed for the debate, and let us move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u265	Mr President! It is good that we have a long and in-depth debate on the EU recovery instrument, as this will enable us to brighten up the various perspectives. The signatories to the mid-term issue and the government have a very different view of many fundamental issues, and it is positive, [Fresh—The President-in-Office] However, if we go into this interlocutory issue, I personally would like to highlight two messages from the Prime Minister in his speech. The recovery instrument does not create a Union for Income Transfers or a federal state, nor does the recovery instrument impose an undetermined obligation on Finland to bear the debts of other states, as Finland's maximum liability is strictly limited. Although this recovery package is not complete, it is necessary in this situation. Why is this recovery package important? Because the corona pandemic has brought the world and the economy of our continent to its knees and we have to take very exceptional measures to get back on our feet. It is essential for Finland as well as for Europe as a whole that the entire continent's economy recovers as the threat of an epidemic begins to subside and we can return to more normal times. Public opinion has strongly criticised Finland’s recovery from the new recovery instrument. However, the truth is, above all, that we have overcome the attacks caused by the corona pandemic better than many other countries. This is, above all, a positive thing, and I hope that we will be able to enjoy it together and that this will continue to be the case. Korona has not yet been won, even though vaccinations now give new hope. It is also important that public intervention strengthens the bridge for both companies and households for more than a difficult time. This policy has been strongly recommended by both domestic and international economic experts and organisations. As an open and export-dependent economy for us, the recovery of Europe and the internal market is of paramount importance. About 60% of our exports are destined for the EU internal market, and if the EU does not recover, it will be very difficult to get on its feet as an export-driven country in Finland as well. The opposition has strongly criticised the financial allocation of the recovery instrument. The work is not finished yet, and we must be able to prioritise properly. It is important to focus on the green transition and the fight against climate change, the digitalisation of the economy, the bioeconomy and modern technology. All these are also key drivers of future growth. We have world-class expertise and research in these fields in Finland. The financial resources of the recovery instrument will serve as a lever for new innovations, as long as we ensure that they are targeted sufficiently at large and impressive targets. We also need to pay close attention to whether we have sufficient sales and marketing expertise to cope with the increasing competition. We are now fighting for which country will take the lead in the green transition and in the green economy. We must take our place as a pioneer. In its own policy, the Government has encouraged companies to cooperate with universities, both in research and product development. Together, these actions can generate new green transition and technological innovations and export products to the world market. For example, in the Committee on the Future, we have heard representatives of many companies who have told us about their wonderful plans for the future on these very issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u266	Like this. — and Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u267	Mr President! I support Mr Tavio's motion of censure on the government. The Government has harmed Finland’s interests with this package, including it, and it is therefore time for the government to go. This stretching of interpretation in the EU is, in principle, always unprecedented until it is seen for the first time, and then it is normal, and then the next time those interpretations are stretched over and over again, we will find some sort of hanky-panky-pankying way of getting these things through. A good example is the commitment of financial developments to this recovery package. That was actually done because it would have been too difficult legally to do it in any other way. In this way, it was at least somehow strained forward, and now it was asked for the opinion of this expert body, the European Commission’s judicial service, on this issue — this is a ridiculous theatre. The EU says that the EU has done the right thing, and we all repeat in the choir that the EU has done the right thing. This is a travesty of the rule of law that I did not want to see. The EU does not have its own resources, the EU only has funds taken from the Member States, and everything we get from there, with big quotes, back to agriculture, anywhere else, has our own money, some of which has been given to other countries. There's no point trying to get this over with in the conversation. I would like to ask you a few questions about this package. I don't think I can get answers to these very easily, but let me ask you those questions anyway: First of all, if the government, and the centre in particular, thinks the package is so good, why does the government, and the centre in particular, emphasise its uniqueness? Why should this package not be repeated if it is so great and this is the way to economic recovery in Europe? The second question: if the government thinks it is advantageous for us to distribute EUR 4 billion of debt money to other countries in Europe, why does the government not immediately propose an allocation of EUR 8 billion — would it not do twice as much? Would it not be possible to put zero in that package now, then it would be a huge package and would revitalize the export industry more and more if this were to happen? If it is so good for us to be part of a single market, a community of values, and so forth, what has been repeated here to the point of boredom, then why should belonging to that community of values mean transfers of income and a debt of solidarity? Why does that mean it? If plastic charges, carbon duties, digital taxes and the like are as good as the government thinks they are, why would the introduction of them also require transfers of income and joint and several liability? Why are they tied to this package, which in principle has nothing to do with it? If the EU is a single market in which we should pay the bills of others, as the government claims, do you think there is even a system in any real federal state where well-managed states would pay the bills of those states that have failed to do their business? In fact, I once discussed this with an expert and he said that these issues are not being dealt with so badly in the federal state. There, other states don't pay off other people's debts. And as a final question: If the government thinks it is so advantageous that we take EUR 4 billion in debt money to revive other countries, why is it now worth recycling it through EU bureaucracy and not distributing it directly to those other countries? What is the point of recycling that money through the EU? If I had an answer to these questions, I would be very pleased.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u268	And Mr. Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u269	Mr President! First of all, I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Kanerva. Ministers, this has certainly been a difficult situation for the European Union. There are certain Member States that have had long-term economic problems, and Finland is not included in the problem-free countries either, because we, too, in the last decade, all services and everything else, have been financed by foreign investors. Well, it's a bit of a problem, isn't it? In this difficult situation, the opposition is entitled, without any further debate, to raise certain issues which have also been raised by experts. When, during this debate, it was strongly emphasised that everything has gone legally right, I personally do not agree. It is good that the government has studied legal matters carefully, but in Finnish culture agreements are generally respected and adhered to. This is a contractual society, which means the same as a trust society. Now that a special fund has been set up outside the EU budget, it is clear that it will have to be assessed how the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union will deal with Articles 310 and 125 and with the other articles raised here by Mr Tuppurainen — whether or not it is right to put a question mark on it. The problem here is that if every time there are problems, there will be a new interpretation of an EU agreement that has never been interpreted before — because it has not been possible before to take on a common debt and now it is suddenly possible — then the layman will draw the conclusion that when the next problem comes, which I am sure will come at this level of debt, then how to interpret another article. This is the question now that we have gone down this road, that we are donating money and that we are lending money to other countries for other purposes. They are probably good, but cultures are very different in different countries, for example in Italy, household wealth is, in my opinion, considerably higher than it is in Finland. What is the degree of efficiency in tax collection, I do not know, and it is not my intention here to reproach Italy, but these facts must be brought to the fore. It had been estimated somewhere that the Italian grey economy was worth 190 billion. Well, it may be, I don't know, but here comes the problem when we go to interpret these agreements. For example, there were experts in the Constitutional Committee — let us leave out the names — that the Council’s opinion on the legal service is more critical than the description in the Government’s letter suggests. The evaluation of the judicial services is fully in line with the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on a number of points. The Council's legal service stresses that the Commission's proposal is unprecedented, both in principle, qualitatively and on a scale. It openly states that such a proposal would have been considered incompatible with the Treaties in the Union up to now. This is the subject of criticism when we have accepted this kind of tool for use. As I said earlier, I find it problematic that when you raise interest... They should by no means be raised, because the problem in Italy, as in Finland, is the lack of investment, it is the lack of private investment. It comes to the point that, as in other parts of the world, when the ECB is now striving... I looked at the statistics, and England in the euro area, Japan and the United States have pumped a total of 12,000 billion dollars into the market. They are quite the sums to obtain that purchasing power, and yet we in Europe are not going to achieve inflation, which should be less than 2%. The big question here, too, is that when the economy is now based on a rather long-term debt, and we have many parliamentarians who believe that this new economic system is such that we can take on debt, because debt management costs are getting smaller all the time when interest rates are negative, so if someone in this Chamber explains to me and believes that interest rates are negative until the end, then I too dare to borrow as much as every bank gives. So it cannot be possible, and in any case one day those days of responsibility will come. But if every time a country threatens to break up with the EU or in some countries, the answer is unequivocally that either the ECB's purchase programme helps or the banks of that country buy government bonds, which, in turn, can afford to finance people's services, then at some point this has to be stopped. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u270	Like this. It was marked up. — Mr Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u271	Mr President! While there are still a few members of the coalition in the Chamber, I would like to ask them: are you prepared to bring down this package? The purpose of the Convention is that, if this now comes from the Constitutional Committee, this own resources would require a two-thirds qualified majority in this Chamber, then it will determine whether this package is progressing. The Finns, the Christian Democrats and the Movement have now told us honestly what they are doing here, but this may even be in your hands. But let this remain your reflection. Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here today about this net payment position, and it seems to be a problem, especially in the opposition, with the Finns of Peru. Then we will inevitably come to the debate about whether it is our place there in the European Union, and yet, when we have accepted the principles of reducing differences in living standards within the Union, then, of course, we will have to question the whole package and the whole cooperation there within the Union. Of course, if we want to weaken our net contribution position, we could think of it as having a determined desire to weaken our own economy or to leave the European Union. Of course, in the light of the figures, it is important and absolutely reasonable for Finland to be part of the Union. Although we pay more than we can directly for it, annual income and interest savings for the national economy bring back multiple payments, but figures and facts are not of interest to basic Finns who engage in image policy. Just now, even today, the big racket rose just from the fact that Finland's recovery from the package will fall when our economy has suffered the least. With regard to the intermediate issue, you also claim that money is not distributed on the basis of the economic effects of a pandemic. This is an image policy and is also in conflict with your own speeches. Mr President! What the Finns say here does not mean that it is true. Finland does not accept that agreements are being violated. The ministers have said this process many times today. And it was Finland that requested this legal assessment of the recovery package, and it is estimated that the package is in line with the agreements. [Tom Packalén's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u274	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u275	Mr President! In the criticism from the opposition, I have been disturbed by the fact that many people talk about the EU as if the EU were one of us, Finland and Finland, an isolated entity with its own will independent of us. We don't talk about Finland that way either. We do not speak as if there were a Finnish and Finnish decision-makers, a parliament and a government, a separate Finland with its own aspirations. We know that when Finland decides, it means that Parliament and the Government decide — in our constitutional order, decisions are taken. The same applies to the European Union. Finnish people are involved in all decision-making stages: Finns are present in the Commission's presentations, in the European Parliament, in the EU Council of Ministers and in its expert groups. In other words, it is quite a figment of imagination to talk about the fact that the EU now has a plan that is independent of us anywhere. As for what would happen if we decided that Finland was opposed to this package: of course, Finland would not be different from the EU as a result, but that would mean that the next seven years of the EU budget should be renegotiated with all the ensuing difficulties for all those who benefit from EU regional policy, agriculture, research, all of this. As far as the legal basis of this package is concerned: A great deal has already been said about this, and I would like to say once again, for the sake of review, that whether a decision is in accordance with EU law or not will ultimately be decided by the European Court of Justice. The legal service of the EU Council of Ministers, which gave a detailed assessment of this package in the summer, is not the EU Commission, as Mr Mäkelä suggested, but a legal service assisting EU governments. After analysing the Commission's proposal and presenting some clarification needs, the legal experts consulted by the Constitutional Committee and the large committee considered that the question of the compatibility of the EU Treaty has been resolved. It is all the more strange that the EU should act against its own rules, and many of those who present this, have opposed, just as Mr Tuppurainen pointed out, that the allocation of EU grants to EU Member States should be tied to the rule of law in their own actions. Well, as far as what's broken and what's being fixed is at least the climate is broken. We Greens attach great importance to the fact that two birds are now being struck with one stone. Much of the funds in this recovery package will be spent on climate protection and the building of a circular economy. It's about building the future. In Finnish industry, the combined environmental business of Finnish enterprises reached the same amount of money as the production and exports of the forest industry ten years ago. From those days, it's just grown. It is in the interests of Finnish employment, Finnish industry, Finland's economy that we also boost investment in those areas where Finns have much to offer and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u276	Like this. — And Mr Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u277	Mr President! When you look at Finland's path towards membership of the EU and now in the context of the ever-increasing federal development, you have to say that this is one long series of scams.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u281	Irade the Talman! We are dealing with an intermediate issue, the last clause of which refers to a referendum on the EU — a referendum on the EU, an EU whose membership will bring considerable economic benefits to Finland as a whole, estimated at between 4% and 6% of GDP, i.e. 10 to 15 billion every year — every year. Over the years, many of the signatory parties have been enthusiastically prying the Brexit. Brexit, which, even before its entry into force, had caused the UK economy to lose 50 years of membership contributions. Brexit, which in part caused UK exports to fall by 68 % at the beginning of last year — 68 %. Can we afford it? Would Finland then be on the rise? What would Finland be that would come back then? It is certain that it is not the country in which billion-dollar bioproduct factories will be built. Mr President! The EU is based on a certain solidarity, on the idea that together we are more, that it is a completely different matter to negotiate with Russia or China as the world's largest economic area than if Finland, as a Connecticut-sized economy, were to do so. If we want size and influence, then sometimes we also have to put ourselves on the line for the whole, because it is in our interests. That's what this is all about. The EU is not just an accounting exercise. The recovery fund means that Finland's responsibilities increase in a way that can mean that Finland's membership fees increase slightly. It may also be that the payment is mainly made through a carbon tariff or a digital tax. Then our net burden will be reduced. Mr President! What's the alternative? It is often difficult to ask the opposition, often in vain, or, as was said last week about the direction of the opposition, that is politics. But if we were to do so, it would reduce Finland’s chances of gaining support for its own views. It too has unexpected consequences. It is certain that it would weaken our ability to influence the development of the EU. It is likely that it would weaken the likelihood of getting help when we need it. Mr President! If the whole package were to fall, it would have an unexpected impact on the European economy as a whole and on the future. Someone might get a couple of percent more municipal election support, but the risks would be very high. Maybe a few more places in Kokkola, maybe even in Kauhava, but the price would be high. This fund is not ideal. I have not heard anyone in this government praise it, but it is considerably better than it was, and it is considerably better than the likely alternatives. It is always easy to criticise the outcome of the negotiations, especially if you were not there. Mr President! But the government has to lead. The government has to take responsibility. That is why the government cannot act like the opposition. That is why the government where the Finns sat helped Greece and through it the banks of Germany, because we have to think further than their noses. And that is why this package must be accepted. Finland's recovery has decreased. In the intermediate issue, Finland’s net contribution status is the subject of criticism. In this Parliament, however, the Finns of Finland made changes that would have reduced them even further. Mr President, the opposition should not be called for consistency, but there is a limit. Mr President! I'm glad the government didn't go to that game. There has been a call for assurances that this is a unique issue. It is an intellectually dishonest requirement. No one in this Chamber can be sure that we will not face another crisis. Maybe it'll be a pandemic in ten years, a natural disaster in 50 years. Who can promise that there will be no need for similar measures in the future? Nobody. That's honest to admit, too. Our recovery will change, and since this year's economic figures will also affect the level of recovery, we should even hope that this will be reduced, because that means that we are doing well. What is essential is what we do with our gain. That recovery should be used wisely for projects that actually improve our competitiveness in the long term, bearing in mind that this should not be turned into a grey carpet spread across the whole country, but as a catalyst for projects that have been carried out in the interests of the whole country,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u282	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u283	Mr President! This Chamber has been discussing the overall picture of EU policy for the last few weeks, in particular the legal basis and the need for a one-off recovery package. The debate on the part of the opposition clearly shows the proximity of local elections and the points of view that would normally not be raised in this Chamber. The use of municipal election work in this crisis situation does not contribute to the proper handling of the matter and tries to create quite the wrong impression for Finns about building up post-crisis growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u286	Thank you. — and Mrs Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u287	Mr President! First of all, just a few words about these EU projects: we are going to have 4 billion of this package. I mean, it's quite clear math. A few words on EU projects in general: There's a lot of red tape in there. They are very poor in their effectiveness. No matter how good projects are made there in the provinces, the result is not very good. It's coming in. Mr President! The greatest threat to Finland's sovereignty comes not from geopolitical concentration, such as the USA, China and Russia, but from the EU and the Marin government, which denies the facts. I would ask the honourable Members to think carefully about the following words: An entity that does not comply with its own rules cannot be corrected by writing new rules. Community rules may need to be reformed, but the old ones must be respected until the new ones have been adopted together. And at the very least: whenever the rules are amended, the members of the Community must have the freedom to choose whether or not they are still involved. The EU is doing the opposite. It and its main Member States do not comply with the rules. After a dead end, new rules have been written, which have not been followed either. In this light, even the new contractual terms can be ignored, circumvented or explained in different meanings as well as the previous terms. The meanings of national laws cannot be changed afterwards, but it appears that the meanings of the terms of the EU Treaties which are overexploited by national laws can be rebreaded. Communities that hold their members captive and change their rules to their detriment have never taken time. On this path, neither can the EU. The government first markets the EU's 750 billion recovery instrument on all kinds of seemingly economical grounds. When one claim after another has been shot down, the government has moved on to soft arguments, such as feelings of security and solidarity. In fact, none of the decision-makers in the EU or the main euro countries knows anything about Finland unless there is a Finnish person there. It is a childish mistake to imagine a polite smaltalk as political capital. It is mainly a source of amused sympathy for the EU's inner circle, whose cultural threshold Finland will never exceed. Mr President! With regard to the EU budget's joint and several debt financing and the one-off nature of the EU budget, it is worth paying attention to the foreign debate. The Finnish Government's claims or assumptions are irrelevant when the fundamental forces of the formation of EU policy disagree. Germany and France, which benefit by far the most from the euro currency in economic terms, have raised the real risk of the break-up of the euro. The PIGS countries, Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain, have a pressure on the euro area which they do not hesitate to use. Thus, Mario Draghi, former President of the ECB, became Prime Minister of Italy with an open goal of common budgetary resources for the euro area. In English, it means a common, joint, joint, debt-funded budget. The current President of the ECB, Christine Lagarde, is doing the same thing, as is the case with Merkel in Germany and Macro in France. The introduction of the recovery instrument means the transition to solidarity — point. It is so important for Germany and France that they do not need the billions of dollars in Finland. In that calculation, Finland is a rounding difference. Without a mandate from the people, no parliamentary party that respects democracy has any legitimate option but not to adopt a decision on the EU's own resources system containing a recovery instrument. If this requires the overthrow of the government, the government will be overthrown. I support Mr Tavio's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u288	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u289	Mr President! Mr Ovaska asked for the vote if a two-thirds majority was needed in this matter. I would counter the question: what has the government done to ensure that confidential discussions can take place on this matter? I'll answer it myself. Nothing at all. The outcome of the negotiations is now under discussion and raises a lot of questions about the future direction of the EU. There is a risk that this direction will lead to a change in the Union as transfers between Member States are increased. So the talk about the uniqueness of the recovery fund is just talk. Experts also say that new packages for new situations cannot be excluded. Mr President! As regards the recovery fund, it has already been pointed out on several occasions that representatives who are critical of the outcome of the negotiations would not be in favour of Finland's involvement in the European Union. This conclusion is extraordinary. The European Union's supporter here deserves particular concern. Although the recovery fund is the result of weak government work, it is also an indication of the Union as a whole of a lack of awareness of the EU's original idea. That is something I dare say, even though Finland did not join us until 1995. The original idea of the European Union is to create peace and stability in our region. [Husseinal-Taeen intermediate call] Mr President! A fine EU idea is now in danger of being watered down. On the other hand, it is true that the impact of the interest rate on the European economy is significant and needs to be mitigated in different ways. Investments in knowledge and research are needed. However, each EU country must be responsible for its own finances and debts. That is true and genuine Europeanism. However, in the recovery package, the European Union is taking steps towards a debt union. Other people's debts are in common. This is not what the European Union is intended to be like. As a condition for creating a recovery fund, there should at least be measures to improve the debt sustainability of the Member States and force certain Member States to reform their economies. Many Member States had structural problems, reckless debt and non-compliance even before the outbreak began. I think it is reasonable to suspect that the recovery fund will provide an opportunity for some countries to continue on a lax path. This undermines the credibility of the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u290	Like this. — and Mr Kalli. Congressman Kalli seems to be gone. Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u291	Irade the Talman! Om inte Europeiska unionen skulle finnas skulle Europas lännder vara mycket svagare och i en sämre position an i dag. Det är svårt att tänka sig hur Europa skulle vara battre utan koordinering och samarbete. Sedan kan man alltid diskuera graden av integration och hur långt ett sådant samarbete ska gå, men mer complexa och globala problemm kräver mer samarbete. För ett litet, glest och exportberoende land i Europas utkant långt ifrån de stora marknaderna är det omöjligt att tänka sig hur vi skulle klara oss utan EU. Vi har inte mosma geografiska läge som Schweiz och inte den olja som Norge har. Med det sagt är det skäl att konstatera att Norge betalar en hög medlemsavgift till EU för att vara en del av EUs inre marknad. De behöver således följa de regler som bestems på marknaden utan att själva sitta vid broden där besluten fattas. Där sitter Finlands minister och finländska Europaparlamentariker sida vid sida med ministrar och Parliamenttariker från andra delar av Europa. För mig är det otänkbart att Finland inte skulle vara med där eller cereal reserve ett fullständigt västerländskt, democracytland som deltar i alla internationalella democracy samarbetsorganisationer, effectsom vi vet att det är på det viset som ett litet land också får öjlighet att påverka saker. Det öppnar också dörrar för våra medborgare och våra företag. Irade the Talman! Europeiska unionen är inte felfri, långt ifrån det, men det är de felen och bristerna vi måste arbeta för att förbättra inifrån genom våra insatser. Finlands activa insantser har bland you bidragit till att vi fått rättstatsprinten kopplad till öjligheten att få EU-medel — tack, Tytti Tuppurainen, för det — något jag hoppas att alla här tycker att är en bra sak. Finlands activa insats gjorde också att vi kunde påverka upplägget på räddingsfonden som vi nu debatterar. Tillsammans med den så kallade sparsamma fyran lyckades Finland i förhandlingarna minska den uttryckliga bidragsdelen från äddningsfonden med 110 billioner euro. Det är inte dåligt. Man kan så klart stalla sig frågan om en äddningsfond behövs överhuvudtaget. Personligen tycker jag att den medlemsavgift som medlemsländerna betalar normalt ska racka för att tacka det gemsenmma. Jag vill inte ha en union av transfereringar eller där skattebetalarnas pengar används om andra länder misskött sin economist. För de Fallen finns Internationella valtafonden och Europas stabilitetsmekanism. Nu är coronapandemin dock inte något som något land i Europa har kunnat påverka. Det är frågan om en global pandemic som har slagit oli mot oilka delar av världen. Så klart har man via instänger lyckats påverka hur hårt ekonomin har drabbats, och Finland har lyckats bra effecter omständigheterna så att vi inte är precis lään llä uste som villa andra. Men dramats har economist gjort, och vis länder är verkligt ll uute. Den raus exceptionella ekonomiska krisen kräver därför exceptionella åtgärder som vi behöver vara med och stödja. Det behövs för att säkerstalla att hela Europa Klalar sig igenom krisen och kan gå startkare ut ur den. Europas stabilitet kräver att alla klarar sig och därför behövs de är insserna. Om det gör att vi kan hålla skinp Europa och den inre marknaden kommer pengarna att betala sig tillbaka mångdubbet. Hundratusentals finländska arbetsplatser är beroende av den inre marknaden och utan den skulle vi ha ännu svårare att klara oss. Därför är det viktigt att vi är med och bidrar till att hålla ehpep Europa, något som vi också vinner på ekonomiskt, något som nästan samtliga ekonomer i Finland också har konstaterat. Samtidigt kan vi, arade talman, konstatera att den raus fonden är en engångs injection och inte kan bli en bestående mekanism. Irade the Talman! Det är intressant att stalla sig frågan vad som skulle hehda om den raaddningsfonden inte skulle kapas. Vilka länder skulle då kunna komma med pengar till europeiska länder i försök att splittra continenten och göra oss svagare? Världen behöver me internationalellt samarbete, inte mindre. Världen behöver ett startare Europa. Framför allt behöver vi det om vi både ekonomiskt och säkerhetsmässigt ska klara oss i den värld som hela tiden förändras. Den digitalala är ett bra exempel. Hur många av de applicationer som vi dagligen använder för sociala medier, för att streama film och serier eller skriva document eller e-post är europeiska verktyg? Det visr att vi trots vår gemensamma marknad inte klarar av att utveckla digitalala startka företag i Europa, aven om det också är viktigt att konstatera att den digitalala europeiska marknaden inte Heller är särskilt utvecklad. Men för det behövs me samarbete, inte mindre, om vi ska lyckas. Så även om jag själv inte är överförtjust i den ox nitrogens gemensamma åtaganden via gemensam skuldsättning har jag samtidigt accepterat att det inte finns något alternativ som skulle vara battre. Beslutet är också redan fattat, och därför skulle det vara viktigt att lämna den oxissionen bakom sig och i stället focusera på det som vi kan påverka, nämligen hur de rai pengarna används så att de används på rätt jättt och stärker Europa och Finland. Här har statsminister Sanna Marin och regeringen gjort sitt bästa och agerat på ett sätt som stärker både Finland och Europa. Regeringen har mitt fulla stöd i morgondagens förtroendeomröstning. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Översättning. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u294	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u295	Mr President! Yes, one must admire and marvel at that ability to translate so quickly and yet pronounce it so beautifully. Above all, you must admire the ability of the parliamentary staff, the officials to keep this house up even during the corona and so well, thank you for that. With regard to this stimulus package, I would like to mention three points which I feel — at least in my opinion — are the reasons why I am going to vote in favour of the government's confidence tomorrow. The first point relates to safety. When I see clearly from the world that China and the United States, but also many other emerging economies, are reviving their own economy and other economies that give them raw materials, for example, I think that if we do not revive the EU, then we will find ourselves in a situation where we are a market which is mainly buying products and services from these countries, which will revitalize faster. There's a kind of competition going on here. If we do not revive, it is quite clear that we are going to find ourselves in a situation where we are also going to compete. And if we compete too hard among ourselves and not as a single market, it may be that the fragmentation of the EU will then be something that our opponents will benefit even more from in economic matters. When I look at this long line on the future of the EU and the role of Finland in it, I feel that it is actually an imperative to revive. And then when we look at the amounts, I see that in reality the 750 billion in this period is actually only a fraction of what the United States is reviving and what China is reviving, for example. Therefore, cooperation and agreement on these issues is of paramount importance, because we need to get much more out of the euro than the other countries. The second question that concerns me as a whole is human rights. If we do not revive, i.e. we do not produce technologically in the EU, then they will produce some others. Yesterday I learned through Helsingin Sanomat — journalist Ville Similä had written — that 95% of solar cell panels come from an area where forced labour and slave labor are used. 95% of the electrical panels used in Europe come through this way. If we do not revive, if we do not increase our own production, we cannot determine whether human rights, for example, will be realised. In China or elsewhere, we are forced to revitalize the green economy, perhaps to acquire equipment and technologies that have been developed or produced using forced labour, slave labour and, for example, concentration camps, as is being done in China today. In other words, this issue of human rights is very important in that we approve and strongly support this EU recovery plan. It depends on what we will look like in 10, 15 or 50 years’ time from the point of view of the world of values. And then maybe the third thing: As we revive from the point of view of the green transition, socially, digitally, I would think that it would be most important at this stage to agree here in Parliament as well as in cities, municipalities and anywhere else where this money will be received. If we use our time to be very divided and tear each other apart, it may be that we do not have time to revive, we will not have time to use this valuable moment and time to raise Finland and Finland's economy, the finances of the municipalities. And I fear that contention will then lead to someone else benefiting from the fact that we cannot see far enough. I feel that, in this agreement and in all of this, responsibility is being assumed for the idea that those people, like us, who have the opportunity to see far for stability and prosperity, are also obliged to think far and I feel that the government, which deserves my trust, has just thought far, both human rights, the green transition and all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u296	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u297	Madam President! We are now at the top of the post-war period when the government wants us to be a contributor to the recovery tool. The debate has also raised opinions among various experts, both for and against — no one has absolute truth and knowledge. So we hang more or less in a loose hang. The situation seems largely to be a 'hope for' position. There are also many advantages, but even experts have admitted that our exports will not increase by shoveling gift clubs to the countries of southern Europe. It is worth noting that these countries would be able to borrow on the market if they so wished, Italy at a rate of 0.4% for 10 years and Spain at 0.14%, depending on last week's situation, but these countries are looking for gift money, not so much interested in raising their own debt. Last week, economic expert Vipriälä acknowledged this fact that the question of cohesion policy when we joined is above all the question and that the recovery instrument does not encourage our own exports, even though he still felt otherwise in the summer. More and more, reality is beginning to dawn, and hopefully also on the government. This is, to the greatest extent, a question of benevolent cohesion policy and solidarity. Therefore, in the common interest of the EU, we must help those countries that have been in distress before the corona. So we want to save the EU with this short-sighted policy, but, above all, we are giving the blame for their problems, that is, the euro, an extension. This has been defended by the interest rate, but it is only a small part, as we know, of 30%. Finland’s own economic situation is not like having loose money to distribute across Europe. Our sovereign debt is bound to rise by more than 130 billion this year, and our hidden responsibilities are already in the same order of magnitude. Our tax rate 43 is one of the toughest in the OECD countries. When combined with the taxation of consumption, such as fuel taxes and VAT, we are right at the top of Europe, at over 70%. In the light of these figures, we do not have the capacity, in the name of solidarity, to leverage the economies of other countries. The financial loss of our commitment to the aid package is undoubtedly negative. However, the greatest concern when we go along will arise from future threats, and these are the very ones that must be taken seriously. The EU is an unreliable community. It violates its own rules and treaties in many respects. It will continue to do so. The one-off nature of the package can be forgotten. It is self-evident that there will always be countries in distress, especially in the euro area, and there will be no need for a corona-like disaster. So now a new supranational level of EU debt is being created over the nation states. Who can claim with a serious face that it would not be used again and raised in the future? Hardly anyone. So we tie our hands to a Union to which the Finnish people have never joined. It cannot be our job to guarantee the economies of the zombie countries — that is, countries that are only involved by pouring gifts and debt into them. They'll give you more time, but you'll have your head in your hand before long. It's inevitable. Most experts admit that at no time should we go along with the fiscal, solidarity-based revival of Europe. Recovery should have been made through an agreement between countries through the ESM. In the current situation, Germany made a change of direction because it has substantial claims, including from Italy and Spain. It wanted to involve other countries in the EU in order to ensure its own debts. As I said, for reasons of solidarity and as one of the guarantors of cohesion policy, we are involved in this mess. The worst part is that now that we're in it, it's not possible to get out of it. The door closes forever. So we have to put together the pros and cons and cons and draw conclusions from them. We must avoid the option that can lead to a great loss in the future, that is, the disappearance of our independence. The worst thing is that you who are here to make this decision will only be partially paid. The bill will be paid by our posterity in every municipality in Finland. We Finns love Finland and Finns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u298	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u299	Mr President! Koronapandem has confused the lives of nations and their inhabitants in many ways. The pandemic has caused a global health crisis and has also caused a global economic crisis. Mankind has experienced a wide range of crises in its history, and the corona crisis is a crisis affecting all ages of our generation. Interest has affected all the Member States of the European Union, but some have suffered more than others. Finland is among the countries that have done well. Our economy has been hit, but the corona's fallen ill and the dead have been slightly proportional to our population. Thanks to our good situation are due to our people who have followed the instructions, to highly trained health workers and to the government that has managed the crisis. Life has always gone on since the crises. The European Union's recovery package that we have before us is an instrument for our continent to get on our feet after the crisis. All continents are reviving and all nations are reviving, so it is clear that Finland, as part of the European Union, is participating in the revival. Although the facts have been raised in several speeches in this Chamber as to why Finland is in favour of supporting this package, the arguments seem to be echoing the deaf ears. The EU's negative political parties are presenting completely irresponsible solutions, such as the dismantling of the package, without informing the audience of the consequences. It is not just a question of overthrowing, it is a question of what would happen to Finland. The same EU-negative bodies present a highly simplified mathematics in which Finland costs more than six billion and receives only two billion, as if this were happening overnight. All of us who have ever dealt with the debt and its payment periods understand that the interest rate and the length of the payment period are very important. In the economy, it is normal to use debt money as a lever to boost the better economic prospects. I would like more responsible speeches from these EU simplifications. I wish you'd tell me that Finland will pay that six billion in 30 years. Your message suggests it's happening overnight. This is a deliberate diversion of listeners. I hope you will tell us that the fall of the package would also bring down the funding for agriculture and rural development, i.e. it would be a cold rag on the faces of Finnish farmers, on the faces of those who work hard, who are responsible for clean Finnish food production. This is not acceptable to the city center. On the other hand, it is understandable that the EU's negative parties in this Chamber can make irresponsible demands for the package to be overturned and for the European Union to leave the European Union, because in the near future there will be no prospect of having to answer for their speeches or actions, unlike their British colleagues. Brexit is a bad example of what happens to a wealthy nation that has left the Union. Mr President! It is critical for Finland's success that the EU region recovers from the crisis as quickly as possible and that Finland, along with other EU countries, manages its vital foreign trade. Our alternative is not to miss out on resuscitation or on the European Union. In this period of time, responsible action will have to be put in place for better economic development, more stable agricultural prospects and people's jobs. With the adoption of the EU Recovery Package, we support the joint recovery of the European economy and thus also Finnish work, growth, security of supply and security. Dumping the package would be a cold ride for Europe and at the same time for Finland, Finnish companies and employees, not to mention Finnish agriculture, rural development and the vitality of the regions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u300	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u301	Madam President, ärade fru talman! There has been much criticism of the EU recovery package under discussion here today and in the past. It is poorly negotiated and paid to others, so we are net contributors — and that is how it is. However, we have to ask what alternatives we really have at the moment, for example from the perspective of Finnish companies and employment, in the long run. The majority of economic experts support our involvement in the recovery package. Finland lives on exports, and the European internal market is large. Most of Finland's exports go to Europe, 60 per cent. In my municipality, Ostrobothnia, exports account for well over 70 per cent. If the economy and exports do not rotate, there will be no tax revenue, which means that the desired public services cannot be provided: social services, education, early childhood education and so on. Madam President! The recovery package provides an opportunity to invest in the future. It is about investing in reform, preparing for what kind of world we have after the corona pandemic is over. Each country must now show how they intend to renew themselves. The recovery instrument requires investment in the green and digital transition. In Finland, we are well placed to do this both in terms of growth achievement and exports. With the right tools, we will be able to rise to the global front line, whether it be education, research or business cooperation. In many respects, we are already pioneers in this. I am thinking here, among other things, of the operators in the energy sector in Vaasa. It is also to be welcomed that the recovery instrument will speed up solutions related to renewable energy, bioeconomy, battery technology. It is also important to invest in Finnish competence, and we must remember that a high level of competence is very important to us and our strongest competitive edge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u302	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! There was quite a lot of this kind of debate in the debate, but it is understandable because of the nature of the matter. I think that our Prime Minister and other ministers, who spoke, did go to the root sin, and I myself had thought to remind myself of what this is all about. About a year ago, as we all remember — it was on 27 February — the Prime Minister announced in this Chamber the measures taken by the Finnish government to prepare for the corona pandemic, and then, as we know, it began to happen in quite a short time. Of course, there is no reason to repeat it now, but we know that military vehicles were transporting bodies in Italy and that the cemeteries were full, hospitals collapsed in many countries, that is to say, their capacity to operate, including workers there became ill, curfews came and are still in many countries, and, above all, the economy collapsed, stalled. And this is, of course, the economic aspect of this twin crisis. So it is, as Mr Tuppurainen said here, that we now have to revive this pandemic crisis. After all, Finland has done very well in comparison with others, but the crucial question now is that when we look at the world economy... I say a few figures, there is a slight tendency to like the figures: the whole world economy is 84 trillion US dollars — and therefore the trillion is 12 zeros. The U.S. share of that is $21 trillion. China is 13 trillion dollars, the EU totals 18 trillion dollars — it is the second largest economy in the world — but the largest EU country alone, Germany, is 4 trillion dollars. Finland is, after all, 240 billion dollars, a small factor in that. Europe is a fragmented continent, as we know, for decades, especially in the previous century, a centre of serious fires, as we know. And yes, it is a question of what every country does for itself, because every country does for itself too, we need at least the amount of joint recovery that the EU has now launched. Now, if we are talking about the 750 billion, it is, of course, a huge amount of money, but if we compare it to the 18 trillion dollars I have just mentioned — this was EUR 750, which of course has to be converted into dollars in comparison — then we can say that this is about 4% of the GDP of one year, but since this recovery money is not intended to be spent in just one year but two or three, we are talking about that 1.5 to 2% share of GDP. It is huge money and, of course, it must be financed in some logical way, as has been said here, and of course this debate is quite a lot around it, which is the contribution of the various countries and which parts of it are involved. In my opinion, good speeches have highlighted the fact that this is, after all, a question of the whole of the EU economy and a compromise, including membership fees, entitlements, funds and this recovery package. If you remove a certain part of it and then compare it to another specific part, you can of course get these kind of pretty steep and opposing sounding and critical views, but it is now a question of reviving the entire continent. As I mentioned, the USA 21 trillion dollars, China 13 trillion dollars, then the EU between them, 18 trillion dollars. That is the main issue here, and it is precisely the lever, as has been particularly emphasised in a number of speeches. I am quite sure that, if there is any evidence of this health situation now, I hope, with the rapid development of the vaccine, of course, and with the sensible behaviour of people and with respect for recommendations, we will also be able to rebuild the economy here gradually. Last but not least, as the well-known Roman speaker said, that the waiting lists must be removed by the way, and it is excellent that this stimulus package also provides funding for this. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u304	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u305	Mr President! Mr Lindén, this package is about the transfer of income to countries that are worse off than the countries that have done, who do not want to make painful structural reforms because they know that there will always be a payer when money is needed. The payer is you, the Finnish taxpayer. Finland cannot act as a bank account for over-debted countries in southern Europe. The bad economic situation in these countries is not caused by the corona virus, but by years of poor economic management. The package will introduce a common debt, taxation and transfers in the euro area, although the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contains a non-assistance clause prohibiting the Union and its Member States from taking responsibility for the financial responsibilities of other Member States. Moreover, the recovery package is in breach of the EU's own rules, since the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not allow the Union to finance its activities by borrowing. This is a fundamental legal problem because there is no clear and acceptable legal basis for the proposal in the Treaties. Under the pretext of Korona, the Union is developing in a direction that Finns did not commit to in the EU referendum. Minister Tuppurainen, I would ask you: if Finland did not approve this package, would the EU separate Finland or return to the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u306	Secretary Tuppurainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u307	Madam President! Excellent, good speeches have been made. I think there is exactly the tone that should be here. This is part of the political debate which is probably taking place in the parliaments of all the countries, in others a little more than in others, but the debate is due to take place. In reply to Mr Koponen: Finland wanted to be involved in this agreement. We took the lunches from the large parliamentary committee and negotiated them as best we could and we thought we had done well. In a few words how we succeeded: If you look at these responsibilities in Finland, for example, Finland is the third smallest net contributor here as a whole. It must be taken as an acceptable fact that we are a net contributor, because we are a more prosperous country than the average, but we are by no means a large net contributor. And having heard through some of the speeches the concern that Finland alone will pay for this whole fun, that is not entirely true. For example, much higher net contributors are Sweden or Germany, our neighbouring country. In absolute terms, Germany will pay 100 billion for this recovery package and Sweden will pay 14 billion for it. Then, if we look at the whole of this package, including the multiannual financial framework, then Finland also managed to negotiate for itself. In fact, a relatively lower net contribution is expected than in the current period. In other words, we managed to improve our position here as a whole, which is significant when the Brexit has been realised, and the average payments in the Member States are therefore increasing by 10%. In Finland, this growth will remain at only 4%. So you can say that we have kept Finland's interests at stake here. President! What does Finland get now? Right now, for this three-year recovery instrument, we will receive some EUR 2.7 billion, according to the current forecast, which we can use to revive our own economy. The Finnish economy will benefit from it. In the light of the criteria, we are now getting EUR 1.55 billion out of this recovery instrument and, depending on how our economy develops in this interest rate period, to some extent above this. Other programmes, such as rural development, are also funded under the Recovery Instrument. There has been a lot of talk here about Finnish agriculture and the status of primary producer. EUR 195 million is coming from this recovery instrument for rural development. And once again, from this multiannual financial framework as a whole, the revenue at current prices for Finnish farmers will increase in comparison with this current financial framework period. We were therefore in favour of Finnish food production as a whole. We're gonna get our share of this. Of course, we are a net contributor, but this review should not be limited to just here within Finland's borders. In other words, Finnish companies are getting new business on the EU internal market. A EUR 750 billion recovery in the next three years — now the good self-esteem of Finnish companies in the game and in this market to provide Finnish innovations and Finnish know-how for a low-carbon economy and digitalisation. It is well in line with the expertise that Finnish companies have. It is up to us how much we can grow from this common European resuscitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u308	Congressman Koponen, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u309	Thank you, Mr President. When you asked what the solution would be, it would be nice to hear the answer to this question: if Finland did not accept this package, would the EU separate Finland from the EU or go back to the negotiating table? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u310	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u311	Finland went into this negotiation with its own aim of promoting the food that the great committee gave us. We wanted to reduce the amount of aid, we succeeded in this, and we wanted to bring conditionality to this whole, including this rule of law, and we succeeded in that. We also wanted to narrow Finland's responsibilities carefully, and that too was a success. [Mauri Peltokankaan intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u312	Let us now proceed with the list of speakers. — Representative Salmon absent. Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u313	Mr President! As noted earlier in this report on Finland's exports, it is good to continue and remind you that Finland's exports to European countries accounted for 55 per cent in 2019. In total, exports to Italy, Spain and Greece alone amounted to 5.6%, which is the same as exports to Russia. It is still difficult to understand why Finnish companies would not benefit from the recovery of the EU internal market. Working in the steel industry itself, it is quite reminiscent of the burdens that were loaded on railway wagons and trucks that went to Russia, Italy and Spain, among other things. In this way, the recovery instrument will create demand for the EU. A total of EUR 750 billion of demand will be created. In this way, the recovery will also support Finnish exports. The only thing is that the internal market is our main market and that its recovery is an essential part of our maintaining jobs as well. Furthermore, I cannot help but wonder how, at the same time, the EU is being criticised for not having invested enough in digitalisation, but then again the solutions provided by the recovery instrument are not acceptable. This recovery instrument also contributes specifically to the development of digitalisation, the lack of which is strongly called for in the intermediate issue. Promoting digitalisation is an integral part of the package of green transition that is part of this package. Isn't that what we should be investing in? Mr President! We have just heard last week about major industrial investments in Finland. A EUR 1.6 billion bioproduct plant will emerge in chemicals, and a EUR 100 million biorefinery will be built in Hamina. The green transition has enormous potential for the Finnish economy. They now need to be backed up by a goal-oriented industrial policy, and this is precisely what the EU's recovery tool is intended to fund in Finland. The sustainable growth programme is a big opportunity for the Finnish economy. The programme will finance green transition research and product development. Don't you think it's a good idea to invest in making Finnish expertise go further and take it to the world? Mr President! The Finnish economy benefits from the recovery of the EU through twofold: properly targeted funding will strengthen our economic growth and its base in the post-column crisis, while the recovery of the European economy will support our economy through exports. Our export sector in particular now really needs all the support and assistance that is only available. The most difficult times will only come when the final effects of the corona crisis are struck. So it is not worthwhile to miss this opportunity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u314	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u315	Mr President! We are in a situation where the Finns did not know that they were voting for when the European Union was joined by an advisory referendum. Even a few years ago before the parliamentary elections, no one knew that the European Union was going to take a huge and sealed leap in this parliamentary term and in practice will become a federal state without any question being asked of the Finns. It does not matter what the mechanism is that has been created for the background and which seeks to mislead the debate to the very wrong ends. The Treaty on European Union no longer has any meaning. Member States take out and guarantee each other's loans, no matter how many words they try to say otherwise. The fact is that the corona crisis is one of the biggest crises in a long time, and it is exacerbating the economy around the world. But equally the fact is that we are once again in the hands of the euro crisis, which would have exploded sooner or later if it were not for the pandemic. The purpose of this recovery instrument is to conceal the fact that the countries of southern Europe are bankrupt and are in debt to the German and French banks. The euro will continue to move from crisis to crisis, and Finland is not even on its feet after the last euro crisis. Do you not see, Mr Government, that the euro as a currency does not operate between different countries? Italy has failed to carry out any political reforms to reduce the debt burden. On the other hand, Finns will have to pay for the low tax rate in the southern European Member States. The Union for Income Transfers is one of the last things to be done, and Finland's role as a payer will not be left behind. Mr President! One must wonder, though, about the European Union's resilience and action in crisis situations. Before the euro crisis, the terrorist attack, the influx of migrants or the corona pandemic, EU membership for us Finns was mainly justified by the fact that in crisis situations a larger community creates security. The same arguments still justify EU membership. In less than 30 years, there have been many crises that the EU has not been able to resolve, and the solution has come when a single Member State acts first. On the eve of every crisis, Finns have been disappointed. The EU has not succeeded in controlling the external borders, but migrants have mainly taken advantage of free movement. The EU has not been successful in the procurement of vaccines, and we are not getting enough vaccines in the country now. The solution now is to offer solidarity debt in breach of the Treaties. The EU is a project whose rules change from flight to crisis, which makes it necessary to justify non-compliance. The result negotiated by Prime Minister Marin is not even fair to Finland. Although this recovery package has been sold to Finns in the form of a corona resuscitation, it is not. Instead, we will be guarantors of joint debt until 2058. We will get some of our money back, and we will get it back to the targets defined by the Commission. This money has already been distributed in the provinces in order to be more favourable to the package. We must remember that, as the guarantor of the debt package, we also commit ourselves to an increase in the EU membership fee and we will provisionally accept EU taxation. The recovery package is also justified by exports, but how naive must there be a seller who pays his client to buy products from the seller? Mr President! There are other options than solidarity debt. Finland, on its own, can bring down the package, forcing the bankrupt countries to be guided by the Commission and forcing them to carry out the structural reforms by which the Member States emerge from the swamp. As the recovery package is tied to the EU budget, there must be a renegotiation of the budget negotiations, but there is no reason not to overturn this joint debt system. The main task of the Parliament is to be a guardian of the Finnish people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u316	Mr Simula, I would like to remind you that the recommendation to use the mask also applies to the platform and to all other representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u317	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Tuppurainen, for still being here. It's about appreciating the middle question. Being a member of the European Union is good for Finland. Finland will also benefit more than harm from the recovery package. This assessment has resulted in the majority of leading economists in economics. Finland is one of the net contributors to the Union because we are a relatively prosperous country and we have done well in our economy. In the same way, we are net contributors to the recovery package because we have managed to make it out of the interest rate less than other countries. This principle that the stronger one helps the weaker one occurs throughout our society. It is one of the pillars of the welfare society. In line with this principle, differences in the standard of living of the Member States have been reduced in the European Union. With regard to possible future crises, this principle will also provide security for Finland. Reducing the differences in living standards in different regions increases stability, and stability has increased the competitiveness of the European Union globally and thus also had a positive impact on the well-being and competitiveness of Finns. Finland also benefits from the internal market in the Union. Export companies are the engine of our economy, and most of our exports go to Europe. President! There is no strong criticism of recovery as such. China, the United States and all countries and continents around the world are now strongly reviving.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u320	Congressman Kinnunen is gone. Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u321	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that recovery and recovery are a good thing, but now we are talking about whose money is being used to revive the economy of which country. Let's try to remember that no one disagrees with this, that resuscitation is good. The Finns believe that the support package is not in Finland's interest. In total, our external trade with the Mediterranean countries accounts for around 5%. Even if we lose it completely, our economy would not suffer much from it. The aid package will benefit our rival countries in terms of defeat. As I said, reviving is a good thing, but it is in Finland's interest to revitalise its own economy and Finnish companies. That is what must be done in each Member State, with its own money. This is also required by the EU Treaty, which prohibits a common debt. When the corona crisis sometimes makes it easier for us, it would be vital for companies operating in Finland to be in good condition in a growing market. And it is good to remember that the aid package is financed by debt. In the summer, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated in its opinion that it is impossible to assess the exact share and risk of responsibility, because it is subject to a wide range of uncertain events because of the long period of time, and that last summer's discussions and early autumn discussions have revealed that this proposal for own resources will be brought to Parliament and we will then be able to take a position on this. Well, today I listened to Prime Minister Marin's speech and he talked all the time about that position in the big committee, and so, Mr Tuppurainen, you have spoken, but what bothers me is what some legal scholars have been worrying about last summer about, as it were, the Constitutional Committee being ignored. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not taken any position on this government proposal right here and now. In other words, we should appreciate the fact that, according to the Finnish Constitution, the Constitutional Committee is the one that forms these positions, not the big committee. I'm very disturbed by this conversation. Then, here in the ranks of the RKP, a Member of Parliament said that it was poorly negotiated, and so it is. I am rather shocked that, in the summer, when Prime Minister Marin actually came to Finland and said that this is a good result of negotiations — which you also say here, although the representative of the RKP also said that it was poorly negotiated — it was clearly not said to me that this share of the EUR 6.6 billion we have paid for will only be reduced and reduced every day, and Mr Tuppurainen, you have said that Finland got what it wanted. For Christ's sakes, I'm starting to get upset if you've really gone there with the attitude that the better we're doing, the less we can get, and when some other countries get worse, we'll be punished for it. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] As I said in my debate at the beginning, I remember many of the discussions, for example when we were in Brussels meeting former Minister Katais, then Commissioner, and here many critical EU speeches and EU debates have shown that we must save the fact that we say ‘no’ to such a place,because we cannot say ‘no’. Ok. Would it not have been the real place to say that each country now handles this resuscitation alone? As far as this is concerned, what has been asked about the ranks of our True Finns and what Mr Halla-aho said, certainly if Finland had refused to do so, we would not be expelled from the EU – you did not just answer that question in the past – but would then be returned to the negotiating table. Then it bothers me that, for example, the Minister for Finance and you too, Mr Tuppurainen, have almost rejoiced that we are a net contributor. I find that rather worrying. Should we not strive to ensure that every country gradually manages itself, that there are no net contributors?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u322	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u323	Honorable Madam Speaker! The government does not have the broad support of Parliament and citizens for the recovery package because it is absurd. It is not just absurd for Finland, it is also absurd for the future of Europe. Indeed, among the public, it may be surprising how such an absurd package can have the support of a majority in Parliament, that is, the government. Although the recovery package appears absurd to the citizens, there is always reason for even absurd politics. This time, those reasons are particularly visible. Even the absurd package is accepted by the government parties because the temptation to serve the interests of their own party is so great. National states appear to the Green Left as undesirable brakers for its goals. On the other hand, the ideal goal is for transnational operators to be able to eliminate the borders of the state. What better opportunity could nation states be victims of federal development than the recovery package now presented? The centre has traditionally not been the most enthusiastic supporter of this trend, just as it was not the most active demander in the depopulation of peat before this reign. However, once the party's former power has collapsed, it is prepared to accept anything in order to keep even the ministerial portfolios in hand. Madam President! The government is therefore not pushing for a recovery package because it makes sense for the Finnish economy. Therefore, it has not been very interested in finding out whether the effects of the package on Finland are positive or negative. The government itself knows that billions of dollars donated to Southern Europe will not be recovered as Finland's economic growth. In the run-up to the municipal elections, the party offices of the government parties have had to worry about how the ministers and representatives of their own party can sell this adverse package to the Finns who would eventually have to pay for it. The situation is similar to that of a merchant who sells his used car, who knows that his car is overpriced and full of faults. The seller knows that year after year the car will swallow its buyer’s money for endless repair costs before its inevitable breakdown. However, if an immoral seller wishes to sell it, it is worth noting the bad things to the buyer and trying to create a more rosy picture of the real state of the car. Then the trip to the bank will be a laugh. In order for ministers to be able to travel to Brussels with a smile, the government has made every effort to cover up the rusty patch of the recovery package. In defiance of reality, the government has believed that the package is unique and not a step towards a federal state. The government also wants permission to lose money before presenting impact assessments. When asking about Finland’s impact assessments, the government, which, according to its own words, bases its decisions on researched information, has avoided this by acting on Finland’s export-drivenness and the benefits the EU has received. Mr President! At last December's plenary session, Finance Minister Vanhanen was content to repeat the 2% impact of the Commission's forecasts on the European Union's economy in the best years. Perhaps the Minister had overlooked that even in that Commission forecast there was even a somewhat better forecast for Finland. In countries with higher income levels, the benefits were not even predicted on average and even on the basis of the most favourable forecast, to be half of the figure repeated by Minister Vanhanen. Unlike the benefits of the package, the payment of the package will, on the other hand, take place here in the Nordic countries. Unlike benefits, payments do not decrease but increase. Minister Tuppurainen said it was natural that we could get less money from the package, because Finland is doing well. It may therefore be natural for the Minister and his European colleagues to be punished time and again for good financial management and for living beyond their means. However, it does not build a sustainable Union. The government would be entitled to pursue a revitalising policy and accelerate exports in order to lift Finland out of the crisis. However, the government is not entitled to the commitment of decades to integrate Finland into the Union for Income Transfers, which the citizens have not given their consent to. However, while the EU Treaties are always flexible when necessary, the morals of the government should not be flexible at the expense of the interests of the public. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u324	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u325	Madam President! Unfortunately, this government is not in the interests of Finland. The most glaring proof of this is the adoption of the EU recovery package under discussion today. Although this is in conflict with both the EU Treaties, the Finnish Constitution and the Finnish Accession Treaty, this issue is still being discussed today. However, this issue will also be put to the vote this week because the government has made its choice of values. It wants to participate in transfers, in the debt problems of the countries of southern Europe. Under the EU Treaty, revenue and expenditure must be balanced and the Union cannot finance its activities by borrowing. It also prohibits the Union and the Member States from taking on the financial responsibilities of other Member States. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, EU legislation must not include elements contrary to the Treaty for Member States. Acceptance of the package will reduce the budgetary power and national sovereignty of the Finnish Parliament for tens of years, probably forever. The package is a major shift towards the Union for Income Transfers and federal development. Its adoption gives the EU the right to tax, the right to deficits and the right to debt. At the time, the people gave no mandate for such accession to the Union. The package is presented under the pretext of an interest rate, although only 30% of it is distributed on the basis of the difficulties caused by the interest rate. In reality, this package is a protection money for the euro of some countries and for the large Member States to get what their banks have in several countries. The package is also justified by the need for recovery. Why do countries not simply borrow money from the market at zero interest and revive it? This is what ordinary citizens ask in markets and streets. After all, Finland would have had a better deal, if it had wanted to do so, for example, from quick-jump companies. Nor will Finland's exports be resolved or resolved through such a package, as trade between southern and northern Europe is very limited. It would be more effective to invest in improving Finland’s own competitiveness. The real purpose of this package is to save the French and German banks and the euro. That is what you could have said, Minister, out loud. That is why 70% of the package will be awarded as a reward to countries that have previously been badly treated. We know very well here, and many citizens know that the French banks have some EUR 414 billion from the countries of southern Europe, of which Italy alone accounts for almost EUR 300 billion. Germany, too, has more than EUR 160 billion — EUR 61.8 billion in Spain and EUR 73 billion in Italy — so we can well understand why these large countries of the European Union are preparing such a package in particular. Once we know that Italy’s public debt to GDP is 135%, this alone will reveal what is at stake. Italy has never managed its economy as agreed in the EU Treaty and in terms of the extent to which the peoples are in debt. There is no room for a package to resolve the problem of over-indebtedness in Italy, so it is inevitable that we will have to return to this same issue again and again. It can be said that this is a one-off stimulus package, but in practice it will not be. Perhaps the next package will be called someone else, and it will be cloaked to fit that situation, but the purpose remains the same. Once a Union of transfers has been born, it is almost impossible to reverse it. The Finns do not support the adoption of such a stimulus package and the government that is in the interests of other countries, and you do not enjoy the trust of the Finns of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u326	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u327	Madam President! First of all, what has arisen here from my previous speech: I said that there is an alternative, and that is that each Member State will take its own debt, if necessary revitalize it, and, if necessary, the Commission will coordinate this common European objective, which is an acceptable objective in many respects, but will not control, as is now the case here with the government parties. Of course, the Commission is controlling us, but not criminals — we are overly controlling us in many ways. Mr President! The second question raised here is that if this package falls, it will result in Finland losing its agricultural and structural funding from the EU. Minister Tuppurainen, is it the case that if this package falls, we will not have the money for agriculture and structural policy, as is said here? What article of the Treaty is based on the fact that a Member State does not receive agricultural and structural funds? Mr President! Mr Niikko has already given some thought to what I myself intended to raise, the root cause for this package. After the euro crisis, the European Union went into deep crisis, into difficulties. In the 12 summer the euro was collapsing, the President of the ECB, Draghi, announced that the ECB would do anything to save the euro, and a bank support spike was opened so that the European Central Bank started to buy junk loans or so-called bonds from various countries, including Italy, which would have been the first victim in the euro area at the time. This purchase programme has now been in operation for six seven years, and it is likely to amount to three thousand billion billion, which means that the European Central Bank has purchased these bonds from different countries, some of which are indecent. However, this road is beginning to be at the end of its journey, and new ways must be sought. Now, when the corona came in last spring, Macro and Merkel came up with the idea that it is now a good excuse to go straight to support Italy, for example, without aid, and the euro would also go down. And if the euro went down and Italy went down — or at least one of them — it would lead to it, as Mr Niikko said, that the German and French banks would lose hundreds of billions of dollars in this bankruptcy. Then Germany and France, as States, would have to capitalise on their own banks, and that would be the end of a disastrous career, especially for Merkel. Thus, Germany made a 180-degree translation last spring and gave in to the fact that the European Union can start taking on joint debt and then also obtain a certain tax entitlement. When these negotiations took place, it should be noted that the Dutch Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, was against this package to the very last. Why? Because the Netherlands does not have any euro claims on Italian and Spanish banks either. He could afford it, but then he gave up. However, when the Netherlands is a founding country of the EU, it was obliged. In other words, on this path we are actually saving the euro, which is a political project with no financial basis, and this operation should not be carried out because there is no end to this. We had the EFSF, we had the ESM, we now have the RRF, and the next will inevitably come because the debt burden of EUR 2600 billion in Italy will not go away by increasing the debt, and this package will not save Italy or all the other euro countries. In other words, this absolutely must be rejected and the negotiations must be opened on a new basis, in keeping with the Treaty conditions that this violates.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u328	Congressman Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u329	Mr President! The EU is moving towards an interest-recovery package with a contribution of EUR 6.6 billion in Finland. Estimated claims on corona damage amounted to 3.2 billion last summer. However, according to the latest estimate, Finland's share is only EUR 2.7 billion. However, this may also change, even worse, because only part of the subsidy money is fixed money, and the rest is flexible on the basis of the financial forecasts for the beneficiary. In other words, the grant package in Finland will ultimately be built on totally uncertain contributions. A transfer mechanism is thus being created in the EU, in which the corona crisis actually plays only a small part. After all, efforts have been made by France to build a common euro area budget before. Now the corona gave him an excuse. In this way, the stimulus package will remove the motivation of Member States that have failed to manage their economies to reform the economy. The coordination and monitoring of the use of funding in the Member States is also likely to be half-way. The use of EU subsidies in the negotiations should have been subject to strict controls and to the threat of sanctions or even refusal of the recovery package if economic restructuring is not carried out in the indebted Member States. But that was not the case. The over-debted countries of southern and eastern Europe will be able to rely on the transfers of Finnish taxpayers. In Finland, we can also ignore the talk about compensation for interest rate damage and improving the Finnish export industry with the help of the package, as the money-sharing criteria of the package do not even in principle correct the financial damage caused by the interest rate. Finnish industry is known to run after cycle. The economic knocks are in sight of the delay here. Now, however, the distribution of the stimulus package is based on the poor economic situation in the pre-emergence period and the past unemployment rate. The recovery package therefore ignores the specificities of Finland's heavy export industry, the fact that our economy depends on investment in industry in other countries. When no new orders will be placed, it will only start to appear in the production volumes during the period after the interest rate. Gift money is also poured into countries that are not important for Finnish industry and exports. How has the government taken these facts into account during the negotiations on the recovery package? Not at all. According to Prime Minister Sanna Marin, Finland is a prosperous country. Does the Finnish Government really think that the Finnish taxpayer is so wealthy that he can afford to pay the tax reliefs of the southern countries with interest rate increases? Despite the assurances of our red-green government, the joint and several loan under the guise of the recovery package will not remain a one-off loan either. The EU revived by the aid package is likely to last a while until the debt money is spent and the time of the new aid package is followed. Common debt, taxation and current transfers are becoming everyday, as the recovery package for over-indebtedness countries as such is not enough, even as a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u332	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u333	Madam President! I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Ville Tavio. Mr President! Today and here, the people of Finland are very carefully filed into the lens. This is not a one-off stimulus package. This recovery package is a major step in the history of the Union. The debt taken together binds the Member States more closely together and leads the Union towards heavier joint responsibilities. If this package is adopted, we will make it politically easy for the EU elite to force the next package to be approved in due course. I don't think this is gonna be the last one. According to the latest estimates, Finland will receive around EUR 2.7 billion in grants with this recovery package but will pay EUR 6.7 billion for the package. This final sum of Finland is by no means yet known. It won't find out until 2022, and it can be much smaller than this. All of this means – there is no need for a great deal of mathematics – that the EU recovery package will generate a net loss of well over EUR 3 billion for Finland. However, despite this, we have heard a lot of contributions in favour of the package today in this Chamber and how much it will benefit Finland. How can it be that the recovery of Southern European countries with gift money is important for Finland and, for example, for Finland's exports? Many experts have also spoken against the package. According to economist Juha Tervala, for example, a study on the fiscal recovery in northern Europe in the 2010s indicates that the impact of the stimulus on the Southern European economy through exports was very small, due to the limited trade between the south and the north. According to Tervala, the recovery package may even undermine both Finland’s fiscal balance and economic growth. Madam President! This package is justified, among other things, by solidarity. Of course, it is a beautiful idea, but in reality it is something much more. It affects us Finns, because solidarity will cost money. This means stricter taxation for Finns, weaker public finances and a more unstable future. We should not accept this package. Madam President! This corona crisis is a major crisis in social and health care. There, at grass roots level, the places where corona patients are being treated are going through very tight times. Medical staff, including doctors, nurses and all auxiliary personnel, work at the expense of their own health, but also of the health of their loved ones. It's important that we spot them. We are talking about a Nordic welfare state and we are members of the Nordic Council. We have, among other things, the Helsinki Convention of 1962, which talks about cooperation on social issues. Sweden, Norway and Iceland have taken into account social and health care staff during the corona crisis and have seen their work as very important. What about the EU in which we are involved? France, Austria, Germany and the Netherlands have also taken into account the importance of their own staff. Why is Finland not following the example? If we ever get these recovery funds to Finland, why could they not be allocated to, among other things, social welfare and health care? We will have a huge, infinite gap in mental health services as well as in that care debt. Resources must definitely be allocated there. Madam President! Oulu announced that the university hospital will close the operating rooms because staff have been transferred to intensive care, among other things. They've been trained to do that. However, it is very important that, in the midst of all the crisis, we see where it all depends. If the health sector raises its hands, if the health sector is unable to act, if we do not respect these agreements, such as the Helsinki Convention, social cooperation and looking at an example, then none of us will survive the corona. So in that sense I ask you, Minister: how do they talk there in Europe, how do they treat healthcare staff and allocate resources there? Is the recovery fund possibly also going to be used by the health sector? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u334	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u335	Mr President! The government has closed its eyes and ears to the concerns of its own people about their own survival, the future of their children and future generations. Solidarity with one's own country has been forgotten and the public has been harnessed to the mere role of a paying man. Why don't you just admit to where you're driving Finland? The people deserve an honest answer instead of your vague explanations. We have just heard Mr Koponen's commendable, direct question to Mr Tuppurainen, Minister for European Affairs. It was: if Finland had not accepted this package, would the European Union have separated Finland or would it have returned to the negotiating tables? Minister, Mr Koponen repeated this question, which was asked twice. You did not bother to answer the honourable Member's question. I am not very good at this kind of Minister's work. I hope that today we will have an answer to this question. Mr President! Supporting the countries of southern Europe at the expense of Finns is irresponsible and very cold. We all know in this Chamber why the Union is doing this. If some countries in southern Europe are not saved, the dim future is at stake. French and German bank orders from these countries are of the kind that these powerful ones have no other way of saving their own banks, the euro and the future of the Union than to bring the whole dim responsibility for their own risk loans. Korona is being used for this too with sorrow, and its significance has been partly overemphasized. The European economy was already in a downturn before the interest rate. Mr President! The Marin government will be in history as a government that wants to take our country deeper and deeper into the final integration of the European Union, a federal state. It has already been proven many times in this Chamber. If accepting the transfer package would be as good a deal for Finland as the government suggests, why is it not willing to make an impact assessment of its excellence? The Marin government will sell this country to the European Union rather than demanding that every euro country take up debt under its own name as much as they need for their recovery. This would be in the interests of Finland. It should be borne in mind that the package will increase the membership fees in Finland by around EUR 210-500 million per year in the near future, plus possible interest rates. With what, government, do you think this will be paid when we already live on debt money? By taxing more? It's your socialist destructive solution to everything, I see. Mr President! The truth is that we have one of the highest rates in Europe. Mr Government, you are not going to be easy with your actions. In the European internal market, our largest export country is Germany and not the largest net recipient countries, as the government suggests. The government claims that this package would be one-off. That is a misleading argument. We have already heard a number of speeches from important parties that the mechanism is permanent. In the future, there will be new, one-off, masked packages, with new harsh explanations, petitions and threats. This is already proven by the history of the European Union, and do not forget that we are still paying millions of dollars for the profits of our bank investments in Greece, even at the moment. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, behind your back there is constant action, and millions are being poured into the well-being of other countries. This is an endless swamp, and the people of Finland do not deserve this. Good government, it would make sense now to listen to the voice of the people. We Finns have called for a referendum on the recovery package; the people have called for a referendum on the recovery package with the citizens' initiative. The requirements are well-founded. I do not welcome the fact that the people are forced to stand by when it comes to a decision that seriously affects the future and sovereignty of Finland. Is it true, Mr Government, that there is only one party in this Chamber that trusts the Finnish people? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u336	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u337	Mr President! The main content of the recovery fund is the transfer of income between the EU Member States, so it should be called a transfer fund. In the Fund, Member States would take wide-ranging responsibility for each other's public finances. That would mean a common budget for the Member States and a common responsibility for debt and common taxation. It would be a federal state, the United States of Europe, which, from the outset, has been the dream and ambition of all the neo-communists. Mr President! Most countries receive loan money on the market at a very low price. All Member States are also receiving cheap loans for crisis management under the European Stability Mechanism established in 2012, but since it is subject to conditions requiring economic reforms, the countries most affected by the corona crisis have not been interested in the loan it offers. Thus, the gift money provided by the fund for the transfer of income is preferred, which costs nothing and never needs to be returned. The Fund does not even essentially try to cover the interest rate effects, but it is about direct transfers from rich to poorer Member States. Mr President! The Fund shall not be separated from it after it has been established and its funding has been approved by the national parliament. A difference from the Fund would only be possible in the event of an EU separation, which would in any case require a country that is different to meet the commitments already made. For Finland, this means that if Parliament accepts the fund, we will only get rid of the system by resigning from the EU. We would still not be able to get rid of the payments because we were committed to them. In practice, resigning from the Fund would require both a distinction between the EU and a declaration of insolventness. The surest way to avoid falling into the federal state and becoming the target of growing transfer decisions is not to accept its funding. The Fund will pave the way for a system in which our citizens' incomes will increasingly be used to balance the economies of other EU Member States. This would remove the motivation of Member States who are poorly managing their economies to reform their economies and encourage them to leave themselves to the income transfers of those countries that are better managing their economies. It is quite clear that we did not commit ourselves to this when we joined the EU. Since the Fund would change the way the EU works and would probably bind our country permanently to an EU-wide transfer union, there should be an open and wide-ranging civil debate on our EU agenda. Before any fatal decisions are taken in Finland, a referendum should be held on whether or not we want to be just an EU state in the future. Mr President! I am in favour of the motion of censure by the Finns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u338	It is still my sad duty to remind you that the recommendation for a mask also applies to the podium. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u339	Madam President! I repeat that and, I will just repeat it in my mind, I will tell you that I have expressed my position in this referral debate on the recovery package, so that is all I have to say. I do not support the Union for Income Transfers. The fact that we are in the process of establishing a Union for the transfer of income into the European Union: it does not exist and must not come. I am surprised at this debate when such a basic issue is thrown into a scrap heap and let us talk about something else, something that does not exist. So there is no Union for the transfer of income and it must not come. The Accession Treaty, with which Finland acceded to the European Union, was adopted in the order in which the Constitution was adopted after the advisory referendum. That is our protection in the EU. The large Member States in the EU will do almost anything, as we saw in the negotiations between France and Germany. After the decision in July, French President Macro did not exhale in vain that we have created a permanent debt-taking mechanism in Europe, a common debt-taking mechanism. It did reveal what Macro had come for. He wanted a safe payer for the debts of the French banks, but it is not possible to include Finnish people among the debtors. We must ensure that it is protected by the agreement. The protection of a small Member State is only every single article of the agreement. With regard to this respect for the Treaty and, in particular, the rule-based EU, President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic has repeatedly pointed out that it must be adhered to by all means. No bail-out is still valid. The Constitution guarantees us budgetary sovereignty. There is no reason why we should go there and amend the Treaty, because we already have an existing treaty and a valid constitution. They're our protection. And the EU's own rules: the European Union has its own rules of conduct, according to which the European Union cannot act on the basis of borrowing. This sacred principle is now being violated, as is the case with Erkki Tuomioja — a long-standing Member of Parliament whom I have appreciated — in his speech on 3 February at Hufvudstadsbladet, it is clear that this procedure will change the European Union, and it is also clear that the mechanism that is being created here will also be used in the future, as Mr Hufvudstadsbladet said in his own way. So it is clear that it will change the EU permanently and it must not be done. Thank you to the Judge-in-Office for his honesty, for having the courage to say as a long-standing parliamentarian what we all know. And now, with this new procedure, we are rewarding the economies that have allowed their economy to go into the mud, and now we are paying for it in others. This increases moral hasarism, moral hazard in the economy of the whole of Europe. This is a huge risk for Finland because we have taken some EUR 30 billion in debt over the last two years — that is, last year and this year there will be some EUR 30 billion in debt. Of course, I understand that it is because of the interest rate, but when we go to guarantee these huge debts taken over by foreign banks on that European market, the responsibilities coming from there can easily create for us a situation in which international rating agencies are going to go out of business for our loans, and on that day the interest rate is going up. I hope that we will now take a serious stance on this issue and not go along with such atrocities, which could endanger the backbone of the entire Finnish economy, that we will go abroad to pay huge interest on our debts and then in this Chamber, perhaps at the end of next year or at the end of the following year, we will discuss what the 4 billion or 3 billion will be cut off once the interest rates have risen. You can't take that chance. I was the first to see this opinion of the Constitutional Committee this morning last summer, on 12 June, and it clearly states that ‘the State Council will not accept orpromote the proposed Union borrowing and the Member State’sresponsible responsibility for grant-based support instruments at this stage of the proceedings’. This very well-respected and long-standing line of the Constitutional Committee has now been thrown into a scrap heap by a large committee. Why, Minister Tuppurainen, did this? Why does the great committee not follow the express impetus of the Constitutional Committee but violates the principles of the long history of the Finnish Constitution? That is totally unacceptable. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one more sentence: I appreciate the role played by Parliament by the parties that have raised the issue. I understand that it is a tool for the opposition. Of course, I cannot support the interlocutors of the opposition, but this anti-constitutional stimulus package which violated the Treaty of Accession, I want to oppose and work hard, to bring it down, because it is not.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u340	At this point, I will give Mr Tuppurainen a reply, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u341	Thank you, Madam Speaker! Let me start with this question put by Mr Hoskose: as a member of the Government, I am not going to assess the functioning of parliamentary committees; that is Parliament's own business — the chairman of a large committee has just arrived, he can take a position on it. As the Government, we follow the mandate we receive from the great parliamentary committee. This is a well-known fact, you, as an experienced representative, know this. I shall now answer Mr Peltokangas's question. You were studying this whether the EU would have separated Finland or whether it would have returned to the negotiating table. Your answer is as good as mine, this is speculation. We do not know, it is an alternative reality, because in that moment we were negotiating this whole thing. Finland went constructively to the negotiations to obtain the result of the negotiations which we received from the large parliamentary committee. Finland did not go down this package because there was so much at stake at the time, but as a solution-oriented, active Member State, we went to negotiate and negotiated there several days, almost five days a day under the leadership of Prime Minister Marin, and we thought that we had a very good negotiating result that was reasonable and acceptable for Finland. And that brings me to these criteria, which we managed to negotiate there. Mr Meri, who has already left the Chamber, and Mr Tynkkynen, who has also left the Chamber, did so, which is why some of this funding is still uncertain. This is precisely because Parliament called for the funding of this recovery and recovery instrument to be targeted specifically at the economic damage caused by the corona crisis. And I have noticed that some of the Finns in Peru have also called for this in public, and even more so, to be involved in the corona crisis. Well, Finland got what it ordered with these criteria. With these criteria, because our economy has taken less of a blow from the corona, it is forecast that now that recovery estimate in relation to the summer is falling. It is based on these criteria, i.e. 30% of this Recovery and Recovery Facility will come from the economic development of 2020 and 2021. Mr Kankaanniemi, you asked whether Finland would have lost rural development funds and cohesion funds if this instrument had not come. — Yes, because Finland is about to receive EUR 195 million from this instrument for rural development. Finland is about to receive an estimated EUR 160 million from the REACT-EU Cohesion Policy programme, our estimated recovery from the Fair Transition Fund is EUR 241 million and, among other things, some EUR 100 million from research funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u344	Congressman Savola gone. Congressman Juuso is gone. Congressman Harkimo is gone. Congressman Strand is gone. Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo. — — — — Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u345	Putting this microphone on just makes it difficult to remember first. Mr President! I too have been listening to this debate all day, and I must say, first of all, that the debate has been lively and interesting, and the opinions of Parliament have clearly been expressed here. It is, of course, useful that this debate is being held in Finland, and I think it is very valuable — here someone said that the minister does not listen to the voice of the people and the voice of the representative — when Minister Tuppurainen is still sitting here and all day has followed this debate even more intensively than we MEPs have done here, and I of course think it is a valuable and wonderful thing. It tells us that the voice of the people, that is, the voice of the people in the parliament, is heard and the Minister carefully follows and listens to it. Mr President! I wanted to take the floor for a number of reasons: First of all, I wanted to reflect on Mr Tavio's first comment when he spoke on behalf of his group. He referred to this legal basis and has been referred to several times in the course of this day. I think Finland was extraordinarily energetic in this, wanted to make it clear that this arrangement actually runs under the Treaties of the European Union — a little bit of reproach was even received from other countries as to why Finland is now so cool about this. This was done, and we received a report on the Council's judicial services, an assessment of this by top lawyers within the European Union, and I think that is what we have to settle for. When asked about the fact that only some bureaucrats in the Union were saying — I think it was a direct quote from Mr Tavio’s speech — it seemed in some way disrespectful to the work that the Finnish Government has genuinely wanted to do in order to listen to what has been said in Parliament on this matter. In other words, this issue was raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and there was also concern in the large committee that these Treaties are actually being followed up here, despite the fact that it is not really a matter in the mandate of national fundamental rights courts or the institutions assessing the Constitution, but ultimately a matter in the mandate of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Yes, the Europeans, I am not saying a word about bureaucracy, but, ultimately, the lawyers' assessment is based on this. But the Finnish Government wanted to be even more specific about this, and it is strange that we can blame this. It is a bit like these criticisms of the Assembly, which have always been that there has been poor negotiations here, when the situation is genuinely that it has been exceptionally successful on the very issues on which it raised the question that there has been a failure, that is to say conditioning. It has already told us on many occasions that Finland was one of the first countries to promote the rule of law already during its presidency, and the same flag was held high when this debate on the recovery instrument began. There is climate change as one condition. This money is not a gift to anyone, but is strongly conditioned for certain measures that Finland has been actively pursuing. The third issue in which Finland did not receive criticism, but where attention was also paid within the Union, was the preciseness of these debt liabilities. This was a genuine desire to go to the angle that this is not a common debt that is covered here together, but that is precisely limited to those responsibilities, as is normally the case here. The Minister gave a fine answer to Mr Orpo's question here, and I was tempted to join Mr Ovaska in his earlier question to the assembly. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u352	Congressman Kankaanniemi, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u353	Madam President! Congressman Kiljunen has now made a big mistake about this. Look in the book of civilization what the word “coordinate ” means. That is not giving up any decision-making powers. For example, we can coordinate a joint meeting, see when it suits both, what is appropriate and how we organise it. It's all about coordination. In other words, when we see that there is, for example, a corona crisis in Europe, we can take action together with all the countries, the Member States. But the essential part was that we do not accept the common debt, that we do not accept the transfer union, that we do not accept the joint debt and that we do not accept common taxation, and that is why this package is not good enough for us. We are good for international cooperation in every direction — and that is what is needed, we cannot isolate ourselves — but
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u354	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u360	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u361	Thank you, Madam President. Very interesting to discuss and notice when two experienced statesmen negotiate with each other. I have heard such good speeches here as to why this recovery package should be brought down, that I am not going to repeat these same litanias here again, but for once I agree 100% with Mr Kiljunen that it is absolutely wonderful that Mr Tuppurainen is here at the moment — a humble thank you for that. Now that I have the opportunity, I would like to ask Minister Tuppurinen and give him some groundwork for my agenda of the day. At the beginning of the season, the government spoke fine words about intergenerational justice. Now, however, the government is in debt to Finland and is leaving a huge amount of several billion euros to be paid by future generations, which will be paid back in 37 years, and probably not even a one-off package. Nor are people prepared to ask whether Finland should be in the recovery package or not, because the people could vote incorrectly. The government is taking on a huge debt burden from which the benefits flow abroad, but it is the young Finns who start working who pay their debts back in their taxes throughout their working life. The competitiveness of others is improved, while the role of Finns remains to pay the debts. I ask you, Mr Tuppurainen, now that there is an opportunity: in what way is this justice between generations? And now that I still have the opportunity, I would like to educate myself: would you please tell me whether the amount of 2.7 billion that Finland has received, according to the report, is the highest possible amount in theory? What guarantees do you have for Finnish taxpayers that even this sum will come true? Could you please tell us again how much of Finland's money will be recovered in the worst possible situation? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u362	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u363	Madam President! This spring or the coming weeks will not only resolve Finland's sovereignty, but also very likely the future of the welfare state and, at the same time, the future of our children. Are we really going to join in, in a spirit of solidarity and in a name, to save the countries that have done badly across Europe? That list is long, and you can be sure that when they open their heads it will continue and nothing will suffice. Mr Tuppurainen, on the subject, do you really have a good outcome in the negotiations? Let's go over what happened this summer. So you negotiated a EUR 3.2 billion package for Finland — or at least when you came with such clear eyes — which has now proved to be EUR 2.7 billion, and by the coming autumn it will probably shrink to less than EUR 2.5 billion. So much for the promise. What does this cost? We know that we have never been given free lunches; that we have learned from our parents in childhood. But strangely, to Italy, Greece and many other countries, you are offering free lunches of particular importance. The most worrying thing about this farce that you are negotiating is that it is not your generation or our generation, but the generations that will have to pay for their own backs in the form of increased membership fees, plus different forms of taxes, as is the case here, and also national taxes. We will certainly have to increase taxation in our own country, too, so that we can cope with this burden. What is more, it is still an unknown amount — that is, the amount sold to us at 6,6 billion, but it must be remembered that the costs and interest will come to it, and at least if we have to rely on the Dutch and Swedish sources, it will be about 1%, which means that the final amount will be closer to 8 billion in 38 years' time than 7 billion. This, too, you have not told the people. Well, of course you don't. On top of that, at the moment, Finland itself would receive as much loan as we need at zero interest rates for 30 years. This too would have been a good thing to tell the people — now, of course, it is not worth it. It has become clear many times today that in this aid package the rate is 30% and 70% is something else. Then you can't use the corona to defend all of this. I do not believe that there is going to be such a miracle, Mr Government and Minister Tuppurainen, that these problems will, in one way or another, disappear in an EU such as the one we are in. So crises come and go, and so much for the one-time nature. Fortunately, then, in this Chamber, tomorrow we will be able to make a contribution to this too. Now I would like to read to you, let us say, to refresh memory — or even to some extent new — the list of researchers from the former President of the Commission, Jacques Delors, of the five most revolutionary changes to the recovery fund: 1) In the Recovery Fund, EU debt financing becomes permanent. It is authorised to finance current transfers through debt financing and will then become permanent. 2) The EU and the euro countries are given fiscal capacity, i.e. their own budgetary and economic policy instruments. So the common economic policy instrument is changing, based on transfers and not on insurance-type solutions. 3) The Commission will gain more economic policy steering power as an inspector and authorising officer of recovery plans and, at the same time, as a facilitator of recovery funds. 4) The EU's entire crisis response structures will change when the EU first receives crisis instruments from the major programme and now also receives its own legal structure from the recovery fund and even from the Treaties. The ESM will be left behind in this structure, or it will also be transferred to the Treaties as part of a new crisis instrument. The euro area also loses importance in EU decision-making when economic and other influence is transferred from the informal Eurogroup of the euro countries to the Council of all EU countries. So the Recovery Fund is a project for all EU countries, not just the euro countries, in which majority decisions will prevail over decisions requiring unanimity. We are now united in this. Each country will be able to bring down this package, but not in the future. Is that what you, the government, want? Are you really familiar with what this is really about? What is more, you know how the EU interprets its own rules. It has received a favourable opinion from advisory and biased legal bodies on the compatibility of the Treaties, and the EU is re-interpreting and stretching the Treaties in a very informal and broad manner, at least in a dubious way. I wish we would not do the same here in Finland. Within a few weeks at the latest, we will be taking a position on the instrument, and I hope that before March the Constitutional Committee will read in detail Article 94 of the Finnish Constitution,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u364	Congressman Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u370	To the Minister, please reply to Mr Lundén's question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u371	Madam President! While Mrs Lundén is still in the Chamber, I will take this opportunity to answer your important question. I think it is worth considering how to achieve intergenerational justice, and that is important to the Marin government, as you said. We have emphasised this and we consider it important in this respect. And we think that if this continent had fallen into a huge economic disaster as a result of this corona crisis... It must be remembered that in many Member States the corona situation has been considerably worse than in Finland. The countries have been in a complete lockdown, there has been a curfew, the capacity for health care has almost been lost. We were close to a situation where we would have plunged into complete uncertainty, a wave of bankruptcy, mass unemployment. This has happened before in the history of Europe, and its consequences can be very, very undesirable. That is why it is justified, even from the point of view of intergenerational justice, that we wanted to avoid this type of economic disaster and specifically to build new investment in the economy, new growth potential, by investing in the current megatrends that are our challenges, such as climate change, which has been highlighted here. The climate crisis is not going anywhere. It must be invested in, and now this recovery fund has the instruments to do so. We invest more than 40% of everything in the fight against climate change. That is certainly what future generations will be thanking today's decision-makers. Thank you for this debate. For my part, I have been listening to this for six hours without a break, and I thank you for the valuable, important speeches that have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u373	Congressman Kopra's gone. Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u374	Mr President! Thank you again, Mr Tuppura, for having been here this evening to answer questions on the matter of the interim — thank you very much. But I must say that in this next speech there will be a lot of rudeness in that ministerial box. Mr President! Once again, the government is acting against the interests of Finns. The Government accepts the recovery package of the European Union, of which Finland is about to receive some EUR 2.7 billion by paying EUR 6.6 billion. This cannot be considered a good deal for the century. In practice, we contribute closer to EUR 4 billion to support the countries of southern Europe, which are less relevant from the Finnish perspective through exports. When Finland was voted in favour of EU membership in the 1990s, which was ravaged by the recession, it was believed that the fundamental principles of the Union would prevail here. Since then, it has been discovered that no bail-out — which means that each country will pay its own debts — has flown into a garbage can. Instead, it is the federalists who use the solidarity principle to promote unfair distribution of money and to promote their objectives with shame. With solidarity, the Marin government is trying to justify its so-called good trades. As far as the Treaties are concerned, the revenue and expenditure of the EU budget should be balanced and reckless borrowing should not be a way of financing expenditure. The EU in 2021 will not be the EU in which Finland joined in its time. It would now be high time for the government to awaken to reality and reflect on Finland's European policy for a new time. Every time Finnish taxpayers are made to finance other EU countries, it is firmly sworn that this is a one-time thing and that there is no economic solidarity going on. A similar debate has already taken place on various aid packages on a number of occasions. What, ladies and gentlemen, do you think this is the last time in this Chamber we are talking about sending Finnish money in the name of solidarity to Europe? I'm sure it's not. In this recovery package, the difference is that the stakes have risen and the losses are billions of euros for Finland. It must be remembered that every cent is out of funding health care, elderly services, education or infrastructure, and now that the interest rate is increasing and incomes are shrinking, our net contribution to the recovery package is in practice financed by pure debt money. And, of course, when expenditure increases, the pit will certainly be filled with tax increases. The government has already started this tax rally by first attacking motorists and industry. This interim issue is more than in order, and the Finnish Government must start acting in the interests of our country, or else the government must break up and form a structure that works ahead of the interests of the Finns. Mr President! I am in favour of the question between the Finns, in which the KD and the Movement have now joined. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u375	Thank you. — and Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u376	Mr President! When discussing the recovery package, it is important to ask how the people feel about this. I am sure that every Member of Parliament in this Chamber has received feedback by e-mail as we have encountered people, and they usually ask very simple questions because, after all, this is a very simple matter. And I would like to give you a few examples here. I myself have been asked such questions on the street whether it is really the case that this corona subsidy package is intended to support Finland's export trade. Is it the purpose of this corona support package that, if this package falls, we will not receive any agricultural and structural funds from the EU, which we ourselves will also pay for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u383	Thank you. Thank you for the repair. — Representative Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u384	Mr President! The maiden Suomi has been this kind of identity of the Finnish national ideal and our identity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u394	Thank you. — Mr Kiljunen, one-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u395	Mr President! Referring to Erkki Tuomioja's position, Congressman Juha Mäenpää asked me what my personal position was, perhaps also what. . . .
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u402	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u403	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen, this is what I wanted to ask you: would you like to leave your children and grandchildren with a debt note for which more than half has been given to others?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u404	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u405	Thank you. This is a leading question in the way that you define that condition, as it were. If this is understood in terms of my children and grandchildren in such a way as to revive Europe at the time, to bring economic growth, jobs for parents, to create school systems, health care, all the well-being they have enjoyed for decades, then they will understand that we are in a common European economic area... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u408	Let's go back to the list of speakers. Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u409	Mr President! We must now give Mr Kiljune the recognition that he and Mr Hassi represent the government here and that you consider this package to be a very good one. I wonder, if this is so great, why on earth do you not drive, that these things are done every few years? We are opposed to the fact that this is so bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u412	Like this. — and Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u413	Mr President! It has already been said many times, but let me say that the majority of economists consider this solution to be advantageous for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u416	And Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u417	Mr President! Mr Hassi, before that, went through a couple of zombie arguments, as he used this term, and I had no choice but to look at the culture book exactly what the zombie argument is, in order to be able to tell you, [Call for the Cape] The first zombie argument that has been heard here today is that we in the government parties here would consider this recovery fund a very good solution. This is not a very good solution in any form. This is an inevitable solution if we want to deal with this corona crisis in some way and the disastrous economic effects it has caused. This is the starting point for this whole process, and in that sense it is a zombie argument that has no real basis, because none of us considers this ideal. The Finnish Government tried to negotiate in a great way, got this as good as it gave room for the negotiation process, and many of the positions expressed in Parliament were taken into account and I am not going to list them here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u420	And Mr Kankaanniemi, a one-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u421	Mr President! Indeed, I was a minister in the government that held these accession negotiations with the EU, the EC at the time, and I was a member of the six-member ministerial group that went through everything, the whole package that was huge. The President of the Republic, Mauno Koivisto, followed, directed and led this work for his part. The President's prerogatives were significant at the time, and he was in charge of this, and yes he gave quite clearly and has also given his position in his written production that this membership of the EU was not an economic policy, but that the decisive factor was, of course, when the Soviet Union broke up and was in the very critical situation in which the situation was developing, a security policy which became an important factor for him. He would certainly not be approving such a Union when he did not accept it on economic grounds even then, but on safety grounds. But the security that the EU is giving us is something we can all agree on. It's a paper tiger, and it's real security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u422	Yes, and on the list of speakers. — Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u423	Honorable Speaker! What exactly is this stimulus package? It's an Italian stimulus package. Why the recovery package for Italy? That is because it is the biggest Member State that is most in trouble and has the most debt in relation to GDP. And why are we doing this package to Italy? Fearing that in Italy populists will rise to power, that is the real reason. If such a stimulus package were not made, in Italy populists would rise to power and it might bring down the EU. There are many other explanations here, but this is the real fear. The comedy that is here in the north is different: when a stimulus package is put in place, there is a fear that populists will rise to power, which may come about after the municipal elections. The economy is definitely not a zero-sum game. We're in debt. Italy, on the other hand, gets the income. That's how it goes. Payments are known, but Finland's recovery is not known because economic development is still affecting it. How, then, could this stimulus package be described easily? Well, let's say we have a farmer with 66 sheep. There will be Easter, the farmer has treated the sheep well, they are in good flesh and good wool. There comes a fox from Italy and says that now the thing is that you'll give me 35 sheep, and the rest of your sheep will grow so well and they'll have wool so long that you'll get a bigger profit with them while you can keep them. Well, then it will soon be said that give four more sheep after the farmer has agreed to that previous request. Well, the farmer is told that this is the stimulus package to give away the 39 sheep from 66. Then the remaining 27 sheep will be said — it will be said — how they should be used: half must be used for this sort of and this kind of resuscitation project and the rest for these others. This, on the other hand, is called a sustainable growth programme when someone comes and explains how these remaining ones should then be used. This is really strange, and everyone understands that it should not be and should not be. Well, if you think of what this stimulus package will give to Oulu, for example. In Oulu, the vast majority of the country's telecommunications and communications technology, which is used globally, is being developed in Oulu. ♪ And Oulu ♪ Linnanmaa is an innovation hub that should by no means be broken down — there is talk of a downtown campus and other places to go in this department of electrical and telecommunications technology. If you think about Oulu, what Oulu gets from this kind of recovery package, then practically nothing at all. Digitalisation and artificial intelligence are being developed in Oulu. I do not believe that this stimulus package, because half of it goes to climate action, will have any greater regional economic impact for Oulu. If tomorrow, when the matter is put to the vote, the government will not fall, then fortunately the citizens will be able to vote in municipal elections and show them how they feel about the recovery package. If the old parties disappear properly in municipal elections, it will also affect the fact that here in Parliament there is a very close fall of the government. Old parties do not come to Finland to help. In municipal elections, we will show how the Finnish people feel about the recovery package. And before that, of course, tomorrow Parliament will vote on this. I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u424	Like this. — and Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u425	Mr President! The combined debt of general government has already increased to approximately EUR 30000 for each of Finland, and there is no end point for this indebtedness cycle. And if Finland participates in the EU Recovery Fund in line with the Government's proposal, the tax burden of Finns will become increasingly strained in the future as debt increases. As has been said many times, Finland's share of the costs of the recovery fund would be around EUR 6.6 billion, but, on the other hand, our estimated recovery has already fallen well below EUR 3 billion. We would therefore receive almost EUR 4 billion less revenue than we would have to pay for the fund over the years. In addition, Finland is becoming responsible for billions of euros of guarantees for loans from other countries, and even our export industry can suffer from the recovery of competing countries. Mr President! The concept of the ultimate nature of the recovery fund has changed step by step. Even in the ranks of the government parties, views have now been expressed that the recovery package will hardly remain one-off. Similar assessments have been heard in the past from many other EU countries, and even from the ECB's management, and these assessments of subsequent recovery packages are very likely to be correct, unfortunately but probably. Mr President! On the ideological grounds of the Marin government's support for a common European debt and possible accompanying EU aid packages would cover up the problems of both poor EU countries and poor central European banks, rather than mitigating the economic impact of corona. However, the process of extending debt solidarity would not encourage the necessary structural reforms that are urgently needed in most EU countries. Rather, such an arrangement would allow the problems of the countries that have stumbled for a long time in their economy to be passed on to those outside the realisation of banks' risk-taking, in practice to taxpayers from other countries. Mr President! The Finns have put this intermediate question both because of the financial burden on Finland from the Recovery Fund and because of its long-term importance in principle. It is very difficult to call the outcome of the negotiations achieved by the government even a victory in the fight against it, and the answer we have received from the government to the intermediate question is almost unsatisfactory. That is why, in this Chamber, we have tabled a motion of censure on the government, which I also support. Mr President! The EU's Common Recovery Fund is far too expensive a solution for Finland both in the short term and in the long term. Let each EU country bear its own debts. I hope there's a lot of people, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u426	Like this. — Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u427	Mr President! I have been following this debate in my office today, and I must say that there has been quite a colorful language, a colorful expression for and against, and it has been refreshing to listen to it in that way. Mr President! The Government believes that the recovery package was a good result of the negotiations, although it means that Finland's burden on payments will increase by nearly EUR 4 billion in total. Although the recovery package is unique on paper, it is the mental opening of the door to the recovery package mechanism and cannot be prevented by Finland. The view of the majority of the Finnish people is clear: this recovery package runs counter to Finland's interests. Finns are not against resuscitation, they are against how resuscitation is done. We in the EU have had a very clear view that each country is responsible for its own debts. Now we are going to step out of this principle, even though some Members here feel that this is not going to happen. But that is what is happening. In an interview with the President of the European Central Bank in October, the President of the European Central Bank hoped that the recovery package's common debt mechanism could be maintained in the EU on a permanent basis. This view was shared by the French President and the German Chancellor and later by many other countries. So I ask you sincerely: what do you think, Mr President, whose view of the continuation of the recovery packages is more pressing, the President of Finland or the European Central Bank, the President of France and the Chancellor of Germany? Indeed, the Finnish Government's view of the unique nature of this recovery package has no decision-making power, but only the decisions of the large Member States will be adopted later. Well, then, why do Germany and France want this stimulus package and are so excited and happy about it? Perhaps one of the reasons is that the debts of Italy and Spain to the German and French banks are so great that if Italy and Spain were allowed to fall into the economic crisis that they themselves have earned through their own efforts if this were allowed to happen, it would be a huge loss for the banks of France and Germany, particularly the banks of France. Mr President! We already have a burden on Greece's debts. It's a risk. It's a risk. It's a risk. It's a risk. Here last season I said that I was a 105-year-old pensioner when those Greek debts were settled, and then I could send a letter to Greece to book me a place of leave there. These burdens that EU membership continues to impose on us — not because EU membership is somehow bad, but because Finland is not sufficiently capable of pursuing its own interests in the EU: No agreement with the EU is so important for Finland that the 5 million small people in Finland should be bound to such burden of payment that this government is taking us into. There has been a great deal of effort here to draw these benefits. The economists have been appealed to, but perhaps they are the most important economists who have said in recent days that this would not be the lottery prize they have been given to believe that Finland will ultimately be the paying man here in all its dimensions. Mr President! Indeed, I hope that this badly negotiated agreement will finally fail tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u428	Thank you. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u429	Mr President! We still have to sum up this argument by the government and the representatives of the government about how worthwhile it would be to approve this aid package for the Finnish Parliament. However, it has been a bit of a cheap company’s taste to sell the inclusion of this aid package with these arguments that have been heard and heard here all year long. It has been repeated many times here that this is basically a question of solidarity for the government. You want to support the Member States of Europe because it is a matter of value for you. It is not just a matter of value, as you claim, because of the existence of a common European Union, but because you are used to distributing taxpayers' money. You've been handing out that money every time the opportunity came, to other people who didn't deserve it. The government has formed a new impression that it is a good thing that there is such a common chest in the European Union, where everyone puts their lumps and makes taxpayers pay if someone is in distress. Sometimes it has been compared to the fact that if Finland ever gets in trouble, then we too will get help. These economic issues are not as you say in the government. In this country, we have always fallen into the role of the payer. It is true that we will certainly benefit from Europe and the European Union in terms of common defence and security, but no one there in the European Union will oblige us to pay for it. These are all voluntary choices. Or is this mandatory? No one says this is mandatory. Therefore, we should always weigh what is necessary for the nation’s overall interests. Such baking of the aid package will lead to moral hazard and has already led to moral hazard, and as a result this kind of pumping of money will continue for God knows how long in this Union of which we are a member. There are a few things that have been said here today, among other things, that the Finns have also contributed to the adoption of various support packages, and it was raised, among other things, by Mr Arhinmäki, that in 2015 the Finns have accepted the Greek support package in the large committee. Let us open this history a little: the third package of support for Greece was paid out of the EUR 500 billion capital of the European Stability Mechanism. The question was whether this capital could be used to support Greece in that aid package. In fact, however, when we were in the government and I was in the big committee, the Finns originally opposed making this Greece 3 at all. It was still opposed at the meeting where I was involved, when our then president said first that we would not go along with this, but surprise, the then president must have received the shepherd staff from the then Prime Minister Sipilä and the situation changed in the middle of the meeting and said that our chairman wanted this aid package to be approved. In other words, it is likely that the situation would have been such that the basic Finnish government would have ended in the spring of 2015, if this aid package had not been approved. It would have happened to us, who are still MPs here, but it did not happen to them, who turned blue in colour and turned their coats on this issue. I would remind you, however, that this was not a question of opening up new funding, a new aid package. This was an existing European stability mechanism, baked by the Social Democrats, which had already been manufactured during the previous parliamentary term and has been paid through capital in it. This fact, too, is clear that you are constantly speaking the modified truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u430	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u431	Mr President! A few more comments on this debate. Mr Laukkanen asked us how we assessed here, what is the Finnish Government's influence on the fact that this recovery package is truly a unique one. You said that it is not moderate, it is not moderate, it is small, it is the influence, it is hardly a great influence. I totally agree with you. If this were not unique and if it were to happen again at some point in history, then the influence of the Finnish Government is very small that a global crisis would strike Europe in ten, twenty, fifty, one hundred years. It can happen and come up against it, and then we will have to think once again about how we will get through this together. That is why Finns have voted for us as members of the EU, that we join forces to tackle transnational problems that do not respect national borders, such as the pandemic that is at stake here, and to this the influence of the Finnish Government, anyone who bears the responsibility of government in Finland, is very small. Mr Savio concluded his speech with the words ‘vocalise the mid-term question and beset with a government,for the benefit of the Finnish tax payers’. Mr Niikko, here on many occasions, also said that this is a community of values which is now binding on us. Then you took examples of situations in which you have been strongly opposed to measures in which there are such things as common solidarity within the Union shown. Of course, you can look at it this way and use rhetoric that it is to be on the taxpayer's side to vote against. I can say just as strongly that it is we who are thinking about the benefit of Finnish taxpayers that we are involved in this joint recovery programme. It creates employment, it creates economic growth, it is also conditional on investments that create a future for both Finland and Europe. This is in the interests of the Finns, the citizens of Finland, including the taxpayers we are. This is definitely what it is. When you refer to these various net contributions and all the others, you well understand that the biggest question is not how many euros we are moving or not, but what net benefits we have in the European Union, and the net benefits we have to assess, Mr President, from very many angles. There are many things there: this integration really brings us well-being, in many ways well-being, not just in economic terms, but in social, cultural, political, communal terms, we are part of a larger wider whole, [MikaNiikkoarvo] And I would like to return, Mr President, to the question of this security community, what the European Union is, and what that cohesion security includes. It keeps all this where we are now interacting. It was the security supplement that President Koivisto genuinely applied for back then. You said that the only real security comes from NATO.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u436	And Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u437	Mr President! I do not want to continue that debate on security policy for so long now, but I too have been tens, perhaps hundreds of times, with President Koivisto alone, in the Government Committee on Foreign Affairs and in many, many contexts and of course these issues were discussed at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, at the time of the accession negotiations to the EU and at the time of all kinds of instability that was particularly experienced at that time. Today, of course, we can discuss the takeover of Crimea, the situation in Ukraine, and so on, and say that perhaps it has not — well, of course, Ukraine does not belong to the EU — been able to take any action in these other than on paper.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u440	And Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u441	Mr President! Docent Thomas Malinen has presented highly critical views on the returns of the support package to Finland. He says: ‘The purpose of the package is tocarry money back to regions where capital is run away. There is no economic reason to turn back capital flows and therefore transfers of income must be made permanent.’ We are not here today to talk about the benefits and disadvantages of the EU for Finland, although the government wants to turn this debate into the fact that those of us who are opposed to this stimulus package do not understand the benefits that EU membership has brought to Finland. That is not true. We are well aware of this journey with the EU and also of the benefits that we have gained from the opening up of the internal market. The issue here today is the rationality of this stimulus package. Economists have also said that it would be cheaper for Finland to borrow 4 billion dollars for its own recovery than to finance countries living in the wild. Mr President! When these many economists who have followed the Finnish economy for a long time talk about this package, they say that this package does not necessarily make sense, and representatives of the government have also said that this is not a dream situation. Well, that is quite clear, but it is quite certain that a country of the size of Finland should not take on the role in the EU that we, with our economic output, which is still very modest, will then take on the debts of other countries. We simply cannot afford this, not for reasons of solidarity, not because the other EU countries want it and we want to be at these negotiations, at tables, as if the one who likes to sit there so that we can continue to have some voice within the EU in these negotiations. We do not have the kind of national income and gross national income that Germany has so that we can accept almost anything when it protects our own interests. Now Finland is no longer protecting its own interests here, but is once and for all on the way, as Mr Kankaanniemi said, from which there is no return. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u442	And Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u446	And a one-minute response, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u447	Mr President! Yes, I have to say that I very much appreciate Mr Scream, but now I am surprised to see that there is no debt ratio to Italy. I don't understand this speech at all. I'm completely lost. In fact, we all know that there is a so-called responsibility at birth here, i.e. when you guarantee something, you have to pay something, that's how it goes. There is still such a fineness in Finnish banking legislation that the loan must not be given at the expense of the guarantor. Now the EU is giving up this principle. And as far as this interest subsidy is concerned, it should be managed through different mechanisms, i.e. through a crisis fund, not through such a common debt fund.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u448	And back to the list of speakers. Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u449	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, in the EU, the jacket of the Member States is turning, when we have always been against common debt, but now suddenly everyone is changing their minds... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u452	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u453	Mr President! In my previous speech, I raised the issue of the maiden Finland, who is a national identity of the Finnish people. The maiden Suomi is blonde hair, hair freely displayed, blue-eyed woman in national costumes. It has been our maiden Finland since the end of the 19th century, and now since joining the European Union, the maiden Finland has been stripped and taken away, and now I feel that something is being done about it more than just stripping. The government is now feeding political Viagra to the European Union, and this does not feel good. If I only have a black suit and a black shirt for tomorrow's vote, I'll put them on, because I feel like tomorrow we're going to nail the last nail to the coffin of the lady Suomi. This inevitably leads to joint debt, tax law, the EU is starting to act as a tax source. That night, Orpo, the representative of the Coalition Party, said that if we still have a regional model, we will be paying municipal taxes, provincial taxes and state taxes, and this will lead to us paying federal taxes. This is a sad development, and I am ashamed to be so close to witnessing this. When we deal with this issue at a later stage, it is absolutely essential that the two-thirds majority be adhered to in the vote, not this interim vote, but the subsequent vote. This is a very difficult matter and it is difficult to explain to people, because those people who are talking to me about this, whether they are demars or downtown people, do not understand how this is possible. This is very sad, and perhaps I should invite Mr Kiljunen to tell them so that they will understand. Since Mr Kiljunen has been doing a great job of whitewashing all night long here, I hope I can then ask you to help me in that province. It's really sad if tomorrow this middle question doesn't work, and I guess you just have to go looking for a black tie in the closet. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u454	Well, thank you. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u455	Mr President! The fact is, however, that the government is not only fooling itself, it is trying to distract the people in that this package is useful to Finland. There is not much time since the Prime Minister praised that this was a great victory, that we were able to drop the EUR 500 billion in aid to EUR 390 billion. In Finland's view, this was the big profit that we only have to pay EUR 6.6 billion and the net share is only to EUR 4 billion. Is this the logic that we celebrate as a victory that we will have to pay less than what was asked of us? Maybe there are such representatives in this house who could have paid for it all, because the truth is, if it doesn't come out of its own pocket, it won't sting you at all. You may not be interested in the extent to which Finnish taxpayers suffer from this in their own income and bills, which will inevitably increase because of this interest rate in all municipalities as a result of customer service charges and tax increases. If you had genuinely wanted to support Finnish industry, Finnish jobs, you would have preferred to have shown this same money to Finland's recovery and told your European Union partners and brothers that you should do the same for yourself, we will not go along with this. You didn't have the courage to do that. You had no patriotism. You didn't have the guts to stand on the side of a Finnish taxpayer. This is an unfortunate fact. As Mr Kankaanniemi has also mentioned here today, if the Italian debt is EUR 2600 billion, if the public debt is so high, everyone will know that this will not go far. This will not help either Italy or Spain to move on from the major economic problems to the distance, and I am afraid that such a debate will probably have to take place at the end of this parliamentary term or probably again during the next parliamentary term, as these same debates have already taken place during the previous two parliamentary years.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u456	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u457	Mr President! In the 1990s, when the euro, the single currency, was created, first as an account currency at the end of the 1990s and then in 2002 it became available as a currency, then the Stability and Growth Pact was also drawn up, and these famous percentages 60 and 3 — 60 % — were included in the Treaty as a limit on government debt in relation to GDP — and the Commission was given the task of monitoring compliance by the Member States that came into the euro. Italy came back then, I do not remember exactly, but it was already over 60%, and Greece, of course, had a lot more than that, but the Greek socialist Pasok forged his statistics and made it into the euro from the start.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u464	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u465	Mr President! Here's your representative. Mr Mäenpää spoke earlier about the fact that when this issue was put to the vote and the government's confidence, he was going to wear black. It was an interesting analogy. This morning, when I knew that I was going to speak on the Socialist Group's speech here in Parliament and defend the government on an intermediate issue in which the government is about to be overthrown into this recovery fund, I too chose a black shirt, precisely because this is a sort of gloomy moment, that we are going to have to go through an intermediate issue of this kind in a situation in which the Finnish Government has really done its utmost to defend the interests of the Finnish taxpayer, as has been said here, the interests of the Finnish people and the interests of Europe as a whole in order to cope with this financial crisis caused by the corona virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u472	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u473	Yes, Mr President-in-Office, let us go over what this recovery package is all about. This changes the nature of the Union and, in particular, the institutions of the Union and relations between the Member States. This is a step towards a federal state, because the Member States are increasingly bound together by the debt taken together. And this increases debt but also increases guarantee liabilities, and those guarantee liabilities increase in many ways. For example, if you look at the speed at which the ECB and the FED keep printing works running, if you look at the M1 money support or money stock — whatever it is — then you see that the printing works have been going really fast over the past six months. And then the responsibilities of the Bank of Finland have grown enormously, and if an individual country decided to leave, that would be the case, in the worst case scenario, for the State of Finland to pay the responsibilities and the bill. Well, then, if you look at this content of the recovery package, it has been said that this will revive the countries of the south and that the countries of the north will benefit from it. That is not true. This recovery through exports is very small because trade between the south and the north is very low. I can't remember when I went to Italy and bought something at the store — I don't remember. And how much Italian products can be found in Finnish households? Not necessarily very much, perhaps some of the machines are in larger companies. But here's the thing. In fact, according to expert opinions, this stimulus package could undermine Finland’s fiscal balance and economic growth. The net impact of the recovery instrument package on the Finnish economy may be negative, as this will revive these southern debt countries and the north will be the payer. This is what needs to be remembered for this recovery instrument. The northern countries are reviving the south, and then we are told what will be left of that end, through a programme of sustainable growth of this kind, how we are supposed to use that sum properly. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u474	And a representative of Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u475	Mr President! Congressman Kiljunen referred to the United States of North America. Indeed, the federal form has been there for a long time. I remember very well when this first rescue package for the euro was discussed here in Parliament in 2010, and that was mainly Greece, Portugal and Ireland, and I took the floor to say about this solidarity and federal development. The then President, Sauli Niinistö, said — of course, it was not possible to say from that point, but otherwise — that already the European Financial Stability Facility, which was created in 2010, went beyond the states of the United States in terms of solidarity. So the U.S. states are not responsible for each other’s debts, and the federal government did not save California, which recently became virtually bankrupt. In other words, ten and a half years ago, the European Union was in a situation where solidarity had been taken quite far. Since then, there has been a European stability mechanism with loans, not grants. In 2015, when we voted in favour of the system, Katainen— Based on the mandate given by the Urpish government, the financial promise, the right to grant a small part of the loan to Greece. Now you're giving me help. Mauri Pekkarinen, for example, has been very angry at the fact that there is a grant here, because it creates a moral hazard in Italy, among other things — it is not good enough to give gifts to the countries that have done their business. So this RRF is now such a new step along this same path and, as I said, the European Central Bank, as I said, has revived the European economy after 2015. And the economy is lying in the swamp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u478	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u486	Thank you. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-16-ps-9.u487	Mr President! It is true, Mr Kiljunen, that this is not a simple math performance in the distribution of the aid package, but one fact is that in these recipients of the aid package, when looking at the debt of the public sector in relation to GDP 2020, Greece was the worst student there. Their debt was 177 per cent of GDP, Italy had 135 % of GDP, and Spain has 95.5% of GDP in its sixth. And these countries, these EU members, will then be those who receive this money with a large hand, a large shovel in their own pocket, despite the fact that, as I mentioned earlier, Italy has huge reserves of gold in its own bank and they do not want to pay any of its own costs, but those gold reserves will remain the same from now on. Finally, I would like to point out that this is actually a question of the euro policy of France and Germany, with which they want to boost their own banks' claims and also to keep the euro going. The French banks have a total of EUR 414 billion available in the countries of southern Europe, and this alone is 300 billion from Italy, and Germany has EUR 160 billion in these countries of southern Europe, so these key Member States of the European Union, which are using this weight, do not want Italy to face payment difficulties — and this is all right with them, again, we will have a few more years to play this game, and that will distract the people that this is about the economic problems of the interest rate. These figures in countries' gross national product have been almost identical even before the interest rate. The corona hasn't put this economy in their throes. Of course, it adds to that discipline, but the real reason is that they have not managed their economy well or even tried to go in that direction. And as a result, the Finns of Finland cannot accept that Finnish taxpayers pay the consequences of the reckless use of money by the countries of southern Europe.
