ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u2	Madam President! We have had an unauthorized flow of corona for a long time, and the situation has not been as it has been suggested that our country has had the most tight border controls in all EU countries throughout this pandemic. Sweden, for example, has long required a negative test result, without which Sweden cannot be reached. On the other hand, Denmark has requested a negative test result or a 2- to 12-week-old certificate of infection. Iceland has applied for a negative PCR test, and even though there the country's own citizens, like us, have had the right to return without a certificate, it has also resulted in fines if there have been no such certificates. Latvia, for example, has also required a PCR test up to 72 hours old, and Belgium and Britain have also done so. And in Ireland, for example, it may have been up to six months in prison if you have not been able to provide a test result or a reasonable reason to release the test. Now I would like to thank the government for finally introducing this law. Perhaps, however, this is more a matter of introducing the law in force. This law, the Act on communicable diseases, has come into force in 2016, and it is now going to be used with some minor changes, which, if I have understood this report correctly, relate mainly to this obligation to provide information. I am sure that this will be the subject of a wider debate later on. But, Mr President, I personally would like to see this so-called 'compulsive testing' presented quickly in Finland as well. That would free up our resources here at the borders. And, as this report points out, we have a great deal of concern that, in a worse situation, resources could be partly wasted. This preliminary test could provide a better response to this. After a while, Mr Laiho, the chairman of the committee for the delegation will go through that objection more closely, but I would like to draw another attention from there to which I would like to draw attention, and that is the use of masks. If we have private companies that can order masks, you would think it would also be possible for the government of our country. I hope that, on this side too, our borders will no longer be this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u3	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u4	Madam President! There is therefore a report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the amendment of Articles 16 and 22 of the Act on communicable diseases. This proposal before us is a step in the right direction to combat cross-border corona infections, although it was brought to Parliament unfailingly too late. This proposal would have been needed a year ago, but it is better now than ever. The decision on mandatory testing at borders is a matter for the Regional State Administrative Agencies. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health plays an important role in monitoring and steering the activities of the Regional State Administrative Agencies. This week's Question Time debate revealed that the Regional State Administrative Agencies were not obliged or directed in the guidance letter to introduce forced testing. The activities of the Ministry and Minister Kiuru in this area are surprising because the government has repeatedly stressed, at the level of the speeches, that Finland's border control is one of the most stringent in Europe. Another peculiar detail in recent discussions is the government's attitude towards coronas as a means of border control. Korona dogs do not replace the actual corona testing at the border but help screen people at the border who are directed to more precise control. The government seems to be deliberately misunderstanding the matter and suggesting that it would be the only test for dog screening. That is not the case. The use of interest-bearing dogs would allow for a more precise targeting of testing and would therefore be justified. It is a good thing that this report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also takes a position on coronas and is also positive, but there is always room for improvement. Third: The Government has still not brought to Parliament a proposal requiring passengers arriving in Finland to obtain a preliminary test result. A clear answer to why this has not been done has not been made, but rather very vague references to fundamental rights at most. However, it is undeniable that in other EU countries test certificates are required and test certificates would save significantly the resources of Finnish society. The government has now taken a spoon in its beautiful hand and set out to prepare a preliminary certificate on this matter, and this is a good thing. The statement by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is thus taken forward. However, it is important that the presentation be prepared as quickly as possible and that the following test be added after 72 hours as indicated by HUS. Fourthly, the government's attitude towards facial masks has been a strange avoidance of responsibility in the same way. In other countries, the use of facial masks, for example in public transport, may have been required, and Finland has already seen a significant cluster of infections from public transport. In order to protect the health of citizens, the government should now make the necessary legislative changes in order to make the use of masks compulsory for all those who do not have a medical certificate to prevent the use of masks, especially in public transport. Last but not least, the guidelines as a whole and even the legislative changes have often been very difficult to understand and even ambiguous. In order to avoid a similar situation in the future, the Finns have made statements to resolve the shortcomings I have described above, and we hope that representatives who want clarity and efficiency and efficiency in the fight against the corona crisis will be able to support our statements. I will read here our statements: Declaration 1: ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify guidance on policies at the border in order to effectively prevent Declaration 2: ‘The Board requires the Government to prepare legislative amendments which may require public transport users to use a face mask or other equivalent protection, without having a medical certificate to The content of this statement has already been raised here in the Chamber of Parliament as presented by the Finns of Finland, which is what we repeat. Declaration 3: ‘The Commission requires the Government to actively monitor the results of the training ofcoronary dogs and to prepare the necessary legislative changes The hearings of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health revealed that there has been no clear reporting of training to the Ministry. It is therefore very important for the Ministry to communicate with the trainers and to inquire and the trainers to report the results. Once these results have been obtained, the matter can be brought to the level of the law, which means that this entry in the law is a very important issue so that interest rate dogs can then also be used. Declaration 4: ‘The Board of Directors shall prepare a model advance test certificate which shall also be added to the model presented by the In other words, HUS has argued that not only a prior certificate is required, but also the next test in 72 hours, and we attach great importance to this. 5. Declaration: ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify whether information is to be made available as arelation to crisis response measures, both to And this matter, if anyone, has come up day after day in Finland. The instructions are confusing, they may not be understood. It is time to clarify corona information and guidance both orally and in writing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u5	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u6	Madam President! First of all, I support these statements made by Mr Juvonen. But I would also like to say a few words about this cross-border traffic at the Tornio-Haaparanta border. For a long time there has been a situation where it has been very unclear who can cross the border on what basis, and it has set out definitions and definitions, explanations, criteria on which to cross. What we have done, or what the government has done, is that it has prevented certain groups and people from moving across the border, whether they have a virus or not, because we have not known who it is and who does not have it until it has been tested, and then when it has been tested, testing has also been voluntary, which means that we are not effectively restricted to the virus, but we are limited to the mobility of people. If we had had this possibility of preliminary testing before — or if we have always had that Article 16 of the Act on Diseases and the possibility of compulsory health checks which, for some reason, have not been introduced, which we have greatly wondered about in committee, that this has not been done — so it could have been introduced from the outset in the definition of that health check, either as a pre-test, as a corona or as a vaccination certificate. In this way we would have controlled the virus, not the movement of people, but the movement of the virus. And what amazes me personally here again is that the Minister has informed us that a bill is now being brought to us on the preliminary test certificate. I question why we need to have a bill on it. Is it not possible for a public authority, STM, THL or avi, to require this prior test certificate as an alternative to the mandatory test and to determine what the prior test certificate must contain? I will now read to you what Sweden has said about this. It says: ‘Approvedcovid tests : antigen test, PCR test and LAMP test. The antigen test is a so-called rapid test. The certificate shall contain the following elements: name, date of testing, which test has been taken:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u7	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u8	Mr President! We have received this draft law in committee, which in fact does not involve much change to the current situation. An addition to this was the obligation to inform people at borders about their reliable personal data and health information when asked, and then to clarify these power relationships, who has the right to impose a mandatory health check when there is doubt as to whether it is a regional government agency or an infectious disease doctor. It was clarified, and it is good that it was clarified if there has been such a misunderstanding. However, the steak in this proposal was a statement made by the committee to the government that ‘the government’s immediate action is to create a procedure for entry which prevents a generally dangerous spread of infectious disease and, as an observer, increases traffic volumes in border traffic. Following the introduction of such a model based on prior certificates, mandatory health checks could be clearly targeted at persons who do not have sufficient evidence of a negative covid-19 test result, vaccination or covid-19 disease.’ This was an important statement to get there, and we ourselves would have proposed it in the assembly, but it was good that it was adopted unanimously. In addition, we have lodged an objection in which we have raised other issues which we consider important to take into account in the future. The first proposal for a statement is: ‘The Commission requires that the State Council take the necessary measures to enable passengers to be obliged to take thenewest test after entry into the It is important to use all the possible facilitation systems to facilitate entry, which could be used, for example through HUS, such a Finetry application, which could be extended to the whole country. The second statement is: ‘The Council of State shall require the control of quarantines at additional borders. “ It is important that, if quarantine is imposed, it is also a quarantine that needs to be observed and requires sufficient control resources. Third: ‘The Commission requires that the training of corollary dogs is continued and can be used We also tabled an amendment to this paragraph, which was not supported by the committee, but here it is still a statement. In other words, Customs and Border Guard need this mention in the law that they can use these dogs for official use. It would make sense to do so in this context because there is no need to bring a new bill separately, and also because the training of these dogs can be continued. They also need that research platform. Fourth: ‘The Commission requires that the compensation for costs arising from the task of passenger healthinspections should be allocated fully Now, of course, there are only border posts in certain municipalities, and the greater the border stations and the greater the traffic, the greater the costs. The biggest costs now in practice come to Vantaa and Helsinki, where there are, of course, international airports and ports. Fifthly, ‘the Council of Staterequires that a draft amendment to the legislation on communicable diseases should be introduced in order to make the use We have raised the issue of the compulsory use of facial masks on behalf of the Assembly several times in the past, and also in committee we have voted on an initiative for action, but the committee did not consider it necessary. When we are in this epidemic situation, I would see that, in Finland, we should also have a face mask obligation at national level so that there is no need for different actors to put different vague masks on their faces, which are not really compulsory. And then we add a further proposal for a statement to this effect, which reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the Board of Directors urgently submit a draft law to the effect that,in addition to the Border Guard Office,the right to stop the movement of advice and guidance services and to process unavoidable health information in the context of This statement comes at this stage because, unfortunately, this issue did not arise during the parliamentary procedure, the fact that Customs needs these same rights as the Border Guard, because at the moment, when we have internal border controls in place, the Border Guard has transferred equipment and men to these large border posts. When the border stations are opened elsewhere in Finland at a later stage, they will of course move there, and then the resources will not be enough to control traffic, for example in the West Port, so that Customs would need these same rights as the Border Guard has now been added to the section during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u9	As a result of today's timetable, I will not open any replies here. — Next floor, Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u10	Madam President! Very briefly: First of all, thank you, Vice-President of the committee, Mrs Laiho, for your good speech, and thank you to the whole committee for this report. I attach particular importance to this statement, which requires this preliminary testing on arrival in Finland. And I would like to highlight the fact that the tourism industry is, of course, suffering enormously from this current situation, and so that the tourism industry is able to contribute to the new growth of the economy when the pandemic is over, so now we need to create clear rules on how to come to Finland when it is safe to travel. And it is very important that Parliament now, by adopting this statement, then requires the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to clearly prepare these rules of the game and enable this preliminary test to be carried out. The principle must be that Finland is welcome in good health, but the virus is kept out of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u11	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u12	Mr President! We are now dealing with amendments to Articles 16 and 22 of the Act on Disease Control, which are purely technical. They do not, in themselves, change anything in those practices. And, in fact, it can be said that the committee's statement to the report is the most important thing in this regard, namely that Parliament requires the government to take action to establish a procedure that prevents the spread of infectious diseases of general concern. And then it has a negative corona test certificate for the disease or a vaccination certificate. Mr President! I am a little surprised that Mr Marin has said on several occasions that border controls and border controls have been exceptionally strict in the Nordic countries, particularly in Finland. Well, now that we see what has been done in other countries and what has been done there, it is even more surprising. This may be true in the case of passport control, but if we look at the spread of the corona virus, this is not the case. In Iceland and Sweden, a negative coronavirus test result has been required for a long time, and in Norway and Denmark it is even so strict that you have to have a 24-hour-old result at most, which means that it is already a pretty strict requirement. We have not had these in Finland, and I hope, of course, that this bill and its statement will lead us to really tighten up these provisions. It is not reasonable for restaurants to be closed here for three weeks and perhaps even longer at a later stage, the gyms are threatening to close down and the students have been at a distance for months just because we have the flutter at those borders. Mr President! I am, of course, in favour of all measures to combat this wretched virus, but this border issue must now be put right. In this respect, I support the statements made here by Mr Laiho. They are the views of the Assembly on how to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u13	This matter will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 2.30 p.m. at the end of the major committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u14	The sitting adjourned at 1:27 p.m. and the third item in the order of business will now be resumed. — Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u15	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In many respects, Finland has succeeded reasonably well in controlling this wretched corona virus. Of course, there are many reasons for this, such as Finland's location here on the edge of Europe, a sparsely populated country. But I also believe that the right decisions taken in the government and Parliament at the right time to control the interest rate have played a key role in ensuring that Finland has been reasonably well-managed. At the moment, the situation is very challenging, as we know. There are about 800 new cases every day, and the situation is particularly difficult at least in the Hospital District of Uusimaa and Varsinais-Suomi. Personally, I do not shy away from even more harsh measures that are being considered within the government in order to contain and control the situation. There are, however, a few points I would like to draw attention to in this connection: For some reason, imposing a mask obligation on people in certain situations, such as shops and public transport, has been very difficult for us in Finland. Minister Saarikko has said in public that he believes that shops should decide on a mask obligation. Well, I guess the deal's mostly answered that if this is the opinion of the government, why isn't the government imposing a mask obligation when dealing with the stores? And Minister Ohio said a few days ago that he was in favour of the mask if it was possible to adjust it. I don't quite understand why that wouldn't be possible. However, Finland is a parliamentary democracy in which the government and Parliament decide on legislation, within the limits set by the constitutions, of course. When public arguments have been put forward as to why there is no desire to impose a mask obligation, reference has been made, for example, to the fact that monitoring compliance with the mask requirement would be very difficult. Well, we have imposed a ban on pedestrians, for example, to walk on red lights, and it is not easy to follow it either. Then it has also been said that such a mask obligation would not help in the fight against the corona. Personally, I do not believe that it is a magic device, but I believe that, along with other means, it would help, and that is what experts today seem to be doing. All in all, I think it is worth remembering that Finns generally do well to comply with the laws laid down. For example, we have a smoking ban in stores. When was the last time you saw someone smoking in a store?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u18	Congressman Koskinen, one minute's answer. After that, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u19	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz paid attention to the right things. I think that the big problem at the moment is that not everyone has realised this new disease situation, that this is a completely different, much more serious, more spreadable and dangerous disease through these new mutant viruses, and that these proportionality assessments, which are being carried out in the field of fundamental rights interpretation, are also being carried out: protecting different legal interests against each other, trying to preserve life and health as effectively as possible, but at the same time keeping to other fundamental rights. This must, as it were, be re-evaluated in every situation and then put those values in order. With regard to both the mask and the certificate, I can very much agree with the views expressed by Mr Zyskowicz and, accordingly, the government has also made preparations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u20	And Mr. Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Very important considerations from Mr Zyskowicz. I would like to say that the reform of fundamental rights in the late 1990s has led to fundamental rights being considered, not only from the perspective of Finnish citizens, but from the perspective of the people in general. This has apparently further broadened the interpretation of fundamental rights. I must say that proportionality, proportionality, the principles of necessity in this situation, in which we live, must be interpreted in relation to the right disease situation, the right epidemiological situation. In my view, too, it is important to be able to assess whether people could be forced to wear masks in a situation where the disease spreads on a limited or large scale, and whether this prior certificate could be defined.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to do any more than that, but the original author of the question, Mr Zyskowicz, has one final speech to make. Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u23	Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank the representatives of Koskinen and Rinne for their very pertinent answers. It must be noted, however, that when you consider this ex ante test in the light of general restrictions on fundamental rights such as effectiveness, proportionality and necessity, it must first be stated that this would be a restriction on fundamental rights. Representative Rinne pointed out that the fundamental rights in our constitution today apply to all Finnish citizens, not just Finnish citizens. Now the question is: Is it a fundamental right restriction if a foreign person is not allowed to come to Finland unless he has a negative test certificate? What fundamental right does it restrict? Does every person in the world have the right to come to Finland according to the Finnish Constitution, and is it the case that when a certificate of this kind is required of him, his fundamental right is restricted? This is the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u24	And now, Congressman Talvitie. Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u25	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Zyskowicz, for raising this important issue. However, I shall now turn to this actual report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This is an amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, and the proposal proposes the clarifications that regional government agencies have already had access to in the past. Of course, there are also powers in relation to the assistance of Raja and Customs, and that is why the Assembly also made this proposal for a statement which states that the government should urgently bring forward a legislative proposal which, in addition to the Border Guard, will provide Customs with the necessary updates to the assistance and powers. Mr President! Just a few more words about these coronas. In the Administrative Committee, it was precisely the view that Customs could use trained dogs to identify communicable diseases and target inspections when providing official assistance. It is precisely the intention that these dogs should not verify those infectious diseases but only help to identify infected passengers so that they can be directed to further action by the health authorities. Corona dogs would act as a certain type of thermometer because the actual tests would be carried out on each individual. It is a pity that this issue has not progressed at that level in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. But then, Mr President, in general, this is the situation on the border. It is quite true, as Mr Zyskowicz said, that the public's sense of justice is still being tested in this matter when the livelihoods are being restricted and children are not allowed to engage, but through our borders the virus is being released when the requirement for preliminary tests still does not apply. In this respect, it is essential that the government submits a quick proposal to Parliament on this pre-test claim. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u26	Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u27	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong the Friday evening sitting for my part, but in order to avoid leaving the Finns with the wrong impression of interest rate dogs, it is necessary to return to this subject for a moment. As lovely as dogs are, it is a pity to note that there are not yet real interest rate dogs in Finland. There are no dogs that systematically and with sufficient reliability would detect corona infections. I myself have seen a video of last year, where a dog named Finland’s best corona dog is looking for corona samples in five samples. It senses one sample of these five samples correctly, meaning two of them incorrectly. Such a dog does not operate with sufficient reliability at the border. If you do not believe me, believe Ilkka Hormila, who is perhaps the most famous nose job trainer in Finland, and has more than 30 years of experience in Finland and abroad. He is also the man designated as his chief trainer by the organization that organises corona dog activities at the airport. Hormila herself has resigned from this appointment and this activity completely because she says the same thing: there are not yet any dogs with sufficient reliability to detect corona infections. Of course, there are dogs in Finland who have found isolated cases of corona, there are dogs in Finland that have found isolated cases of cancer, but there are no coronas or cancer dogs that can find these cases with sufficient reliability, and it is clear that in such a situation, when we are concerned about corona infections, we need reliable tests on our borders, practices that do not give false safety to people who have passed the test, and therefore other means must be invested in this situation. Nevertheless, I hope that the work of nose dogs and the training of dogs will be supported, as there may still be a day when dogs will be able to detect in a reliable way an epidemic or virus or even its cancer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u28	Like this. — And Mr Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u29	Mr President! When a finger has been pointed at the government and the avi and other authorities, I would like to say, in the name of honesty, that the government's will has always been that everyone who comes to the border is being tested. After all, the government issued a statement on this in the autumn, but, as you will recall, it was then that our leading forensic scientists overturned this, that there was not enough authority and, of course, open doors. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude] In the name of honesty, we must also say that infections from abroad, when we look at statistics at the moment, are about 1.5% — this week when we looked at them. On the other hand, when it has been said that the transmutation virus has come to Finland, it must also be said, in the name of honesty, that it has come all over the world. Thirdly, with this proposal and these decisions by the authorities, we have a health check at the border for all people, and it also includes this coercive test if the infectious disease authority so dictates. We have an impenetrable system. With this presentation we will create the best tools for our authorities to intervene in time and prevent the spread of the corona virus to Finland. Whether corona dogs, whatever the tests, the authorities have the right to use all these instruments in due course, and this allows for this. Reference has been made here to this unanimous statement by our committee. It does not require any new provision to be introduced into Parliament, but it is the government which is preparing the procedure, which in future will be able to take care of this matter in the event of an increase in travel. Last but not least: for example, the Finns of Peru have now distributed these statements here, but the committee did, however, deal with this together and you supported this motion and did not make any of these statements. I wonder why, after the committee debate, you now have these wishes for these statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u30	Good. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u31	Mr President! First of all, to that speech by Mr Nurminen. He used the words “honest names” many times. I'm telling you, in the name of honesty, this has progressed slowly. Think about the fact that last autumn a government proposal was brought in. It was poorly prepared, it had to be said that this was unacceptable. I don't know why it's been so long. Now the law is being brought here, and then suddenly it is stated that this has been a long time ago. It just doesn't go through now. I myself have been in that business for almost ten years, and that is not how it goes, because it is possible to make such a regulation or a code of conduct in one day. And it is quite strange now if there are no officials in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health who know and know the Act on communicable diseases, that this possibility has already existed. Yes, we all realize now that this is not all right, and it's useless now to be black and white to try to explain, because nobody believes. But then there's my real speech. We are talking here — or we are talking about the right thing, but outside — about a ban on movement, and the government in particular throws out every line and sentence that there is still this ban on movement. Yes, we must now take a spoon in a beautiful hand and say that we still have so many tools to use and impressive: testing at borders, their once and for all organisation, then low-threshold testing sites and all these things to which Mr Zyskowicz referred — all of them I really support to be taken into account. Use of masks: I cannot possibly understand that we cannot create masks here in Finland where they are needed when they can be created in other countries. There is reference here to the fact that you cannot control it, but it is much easier to control the use of the mask now than, for example, wearing safety belts. And then sanctions: I believe that we must now also consider sanctions in situations where you do not follow these guidelines, because you are dangerous to yourself and dangerous to others, and that is something that is currently being used. There is a huge emphasis on rights, but it must be remembered that they always come together with obligations, and this has now been forgotten in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u32	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u33	Thank you, Mr President. It is easy to agree with these few or at least this previous speech on the names of honesty. We are probably all aware that this forced testing at the border was already possible under the current law. After all, the practices have been changed and changed even before this bill has been adopted, so that already tells us that it is possible. So this law is, so to speak, a little tårta på tårta, but that's all right. Let's set it up here if it's still unclear to anyone. As far as the previous debate is concerned, Mr Zyskowicz raised the issue of the advance certificate. It is true that constitutional interpretations often seem to be a little absurd, but, in this case, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in October 2020 stated when the government introduced this proposal for the possibility of requiring this prior proof at the borders, that it considered this argument acceptable and possible, but this was the case that a memorandum from the Ministry of Transport and Communications brought further clarification to the Committee on Transport and Communications, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not examine any further memos and also stated that the drafting of the law had been inadequate and poor and that the explanatory statement had been made. Mr Harakka has, of course, well understood the cough and withdrawn the motion, and since then we have been waiting six months for that new proposal. It has often been said in public, unfortunately even from the mouth of ministers, that it was overturned by Parliament and this is via dolorosa and everything. No, not at all. You were given a reference to the fact that, in one of the government's proposals, the Constitutional Committee at least stated that this was quite possible. There is no such thing as saying that it is not possible, but if there are some points that go over-interpretation, then I did at least understand when I sat in the Constitutional Committee last season that we have interpretations that change in time, and they can also be curved and otherwise changed. That does not mean that there is no reason to use it in an exceptional period. Of these levels of infection, it is quite necessary to say that a few days ago HUS chief physician Järvinen told us that corona infections among non-Swedish and Finnish-speaking people are on the rise and that the majority of the population is falling again. Nevertheless, there are now messages that vaccines are primarily given to those who are reluctant to comply with these restrictions. Järvinen said that one of the reasons is perhaps their age group and their attitude toward corona. Of course, I find it a little unusual that if you are not interested in handling the matter, then the reward will be given for the benefit of vaccination. And about those coronas, I'd say how do you get the experience?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u36	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u37	Mr President! In my opinion, this Chamber has been visited this afternoon. [Leena Sea interlude] And I am very concerned, Mr President, that we in construction sites, for example, are still failing to comply with these rules on interest rates, to see men coming out of construction sites without masks, to go to local shops, to do their shopping without masks, without corona hygiene rules. I am also very concerned that, in certain urban areas, this interest rate is currently higher than in some other areas. Nevertheless, I do not support it — Mr Meri has referred to this — that we, for example, on the basis of an immigrant background, should put people ahead of each other in the corona line. It's not durable. But that is what I am in favour of and perhaps it would be justified to consider that in larger areas, such as the capital region, where there is a really critical stage in the problem of corona infectivity — as our health authorities have estimated, and as has now been assessed on the side of the infectious authorities — consideration would be given to the fact that summer comes and people leave for summer cottages, so that there is not enough people being vaccinated here yet, and this group will then leave the region and take this virus with them from the capital region. So we must also be able to think pragmatically about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u38	Now it's quite full. — Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u39	Mr President! I will answer a question which, Mr Nurminen, you asked about interest rate dogs. I'm telling you, we've got it. Customs' concern that it would not be possible to use coronas. And why should they be used? I will read to you the comments of Director of Control Mikko Grönberg: ‘When there are millions of passengers,all of them,what better to guess,to take the process in the right direction’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u42	Timetable! — Mr Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u43	Mr President! I do not quite understand this debate on border security, when I believe that the social democrats are constantly in need of a little misleading information when we all know that these measures have been clarified by the Committee on Administrative Affairs at the border. Finland has been compared with other countries, and it has become clear that Finland has much more looser practices in these matters than it is in other countries, so that it is simply not true that we have better border security in this respect. In addition to tightening border security, it is of course important that forced testing should also be possible, for example, for people arriving from abroad. But I will now address these coronas, when Mr Järvinen justified them with one expert and then with one video, why it would not make sense to introduce them. After all, Customs has carried out over 400 tests in which they have been tested and have been able to detect an infection about 90%. It must be clear to everyone that we need all the tools we can now to control this epidemic and the pandemic. And the purpose of these corulers is not to act as nurses or doctors or labians or laboratory analysts, that is not the issue. It is a question of being able to sift from a large mass of those who may have this infection. We need all the tools we can get. The corona dog’s paw is certainly very necessary, since it is clearly better than the nose of the health staff or the customs officer — Mr Järvinen will have the courage to say so. But I still wonder when a great deal of money and a great deal of time has been spent on this, and these would prove to be helpful. In this pandemic situation, it is quite simply worth introducing every possible means, even if they are not 100% effective. The question is that these help the authorities. That's what it's all about. These aren't the doctor's replacements at the border. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u44	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nurminen's speech was quite peculiar in many ways. He said that the government has always had a clear will to put border security in order, specifically in terms of infections, and he referred, as many others there on the left, to this government proposal last autumn. It is constantly implied that Parliament has somehow stood in the way of this, which is, in principle, a funny argument or a narrative, because the government has a majority in Parliament. The real reason why the government's proposal was not moving forward was because it was completely unwarranted, which is a completely uncontroversial fact. And now the question is what happened to that presentation after this if the government had a strong will to make progress. Why have we been waiting six months for a new, corrected, better and better performance? Well, Mr Nurminen also said, as many others did on the left side, that only a small proportion of new infections come from abroad, which is, of course, quite true in this situation. The more the disease spreads in Finland, the less the relative proportion of infection is from abroad, but here it is intended to prevent new viral mutations from coming here. If we had had border security at the same level as in most European countries six months ago or a year ago, we might not be in this situation at the moment. And further attention must be paid to these strange arguments, which the Prime Minister also makes about Finland's most stringent border controls. It is not essential to prevent people from moving, but to prevent those who are infected from moving. It is not an achievement that we have prevented tourist tourism, what needs to be done is to prevent infected people from entering the country. In this respect, the government has failed completely, and that is what we should be talking about here. I fully agree with Mr Guzenina that things should be spoken under their names, and at the moment the situation is that the disease is spreading above all among immigrants and foreigners — I refer to the case of Savonlinna, the Kouvola case, the Turun case. An easy explanation and politically correct explanation is that people work in professions where contacts cannot be avoided. This is a rather peculiar argument when the disease is spreading most rapidly in those ethnic groups which, according to statistics, do not work in any profession, and when we talk about Kouvola, we talk about funerals and in Turku we talk about exchange students' parties. This is the background to a complete indifference, and this is a particular problem that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u46	Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u47	Mr President! It is absolutely necessary to amend and update the Act on communicable diseases. For a year now, the Finns of Peru have been calling for increased epidemiological surveillance at the borders and clarification of the regulations, and if these necessary changes had been brought into force quickly last spring, when this very severe corona epidemic began, there would probably not be a need today to discuss, among other things, the restrictions on movement which the government has flashed to introduce within the country. Mr President! These five statements made by Mr Juvose are all necessary and worthy of support, but I would like to draw particular attention, in particular, to the last draft statement. It calls for the government to clarify its information on the fight against the corona crisis and also stresses the clearness and clarity of legislative changes. Mr President! I think that is what this is all about. Unfortunately, so far, both citizens and public authorities have often been very uncertain about the content, purpose and duration of the frequent changes, even those that have been made. I believe that the root of the problems lies largely in the fact that the government has not had and apparently still has not had a properly thought-out and, above all, to anticipate a capable interest rate strategy. Instead, for the whole year, decisions have been based more on slow response. Similarly, the poor preparation of the legislative proposals has led to their belligerentness in the parliamentary procedure, as Mr Halla-aho well said earlier. Mr President! A strategy to combat corruption is needed, but of course a good strategy is not enough. However, I believe that when the guidelines and obligations laid down are clear, the overwhelming majority of Finns are also prepared to comply with them in order to contain the epidemic before reaching a broad vaccination coverage. That is something we must definitely aim for, and there is nothing to lose with regard to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u48	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u49	Mr President! Just a few more things. All in all, of course, we have a problem with the fact that we cannot fully anticipate the behaviour of people, and that is why, although we have certainly been praised here for how we are a obedient people and do what we are told to do, we also have evidence that this is not exactly what is happening, and that nothing can be done about it, but that it will then make it more difficult for us to prevent them and prevent them. And now I am not thinking about anyone in particular, but just to say that this is not a whole that is under control at all. If you think that we have the avs and the avs are able to deny it — I will take an example from my own region — that no more than ten people can meet. However, the possibility is given that this does not apply to the City Council, the Government and the Boards. After all, it is incomprehensible that we should then assume that it is up to us to decide whether or not these conclaves of 50 or 60 will be able to meet. I think it should be logical, it should be systematic. This applies to everyone. The disease now may not look and the virus really does not look at anything other than the mucous membranes. It does not check whether this is an authorised mucous membrane or whether this is a panel mucous membrane, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u50	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u51	Mr President! I wonder what's going on. You have to get forced testing or proof that you don't have a corona. The Finns have been pushing this issue for months. This waiting is going to cost us a lot of new infections. If this is possible in other countries, why not in Finland? Then, with Mr Järvinen, I completely disagree that dogs can be used in this matter. The dog is very brilliant in finding diseases, including cancer, many others, and in this corona matter we need to introduce all the activities that could be good for finding a possible corona infection. Then I will bring up the exchange students in Turku: having a party, although it has been well known that this is not possible and should not be done. Now 70 have been infected, and hundreds are now being quarantined, and now police forces have been asked to monitor this matter. After all, there must be some responsibility and think that sanctions must already be imposed if there is such recklessness. The elderly have been in their homes for a year, the elderly are in the service houses, many are still prevented from meeting their loved ones in their last days. It's a shocking situation, isn't it? And then there are others who are recklessly congregating over there. And I don't care what Mr Risikko said: this instruction is not quite clear that if you have a larger association, can you meet if you have to have mandatory meetings, or can't you? If the association includes a couple of thousand members and there can be less than a hundred attendees, is it still not a dangerous situation? That instruction is still unclear. And indeed — once again — compulsory checks at the borders. Yes, the True Finns have been driving this for so long that now the awakening, the government! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u52	Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u53	Mr President! This conversation gives it the impression that the Finns of Peru are sufficient for solutions that are better than guesses. I can say that in this serious international pandemic situation, such solutions are not enough for the government. We want solutions based on reliable, researched information. We want tests, we want vaccines, and we want to get rid of this vile virus. As for dogs’ sense of smell and smell, it is clear that dogs can smell tens of thousands of times better than humans. Nevertheless, neither cancer dogs nor coronas are known in the world, precisely because different viruses and cancers are so diverse that the dog cannot easily learn all their variations. We know good hypodogs, dogs that can smell a change in the blood sugar level of one person. People always talk about one person and his own smells, talk about a very concrete group of odors. But when we talk about cancer or coronavirus in general, it is so huge that such researched, reliable dogs unfortunately do not exist. And Mr Meri, these dogs cannot be trained there at the borders, that gives an entirely incorrect sense of security to everyone. They are trained under laboratory conditions where they have countless samples, and the training work must certainly continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u54	Let us continue with the list of speakers. — Representative Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u55	Thank you, Mr President. There have been some tough and untrue claims here that Finland was doing something worse than the rest of Europe, and that is not true. Many European countries have had very severe restrictions, and the disease situation has also been much worse. There are not many countries that, in this comparison, can do for Finland. And now, of course, the transmutation virus is also spreading here, and it is clear that careful consideration must now be given to the fact that certain fundamental rights are not being over-interpreted, as it were. And this kind of mask: this is quite clear, and in my opinion it is perfectly justified to adjust the mask. We also have to wear pants when we're out there, that's all it's gonna be. In fact, when it comes to duty or necessity, perhaps there is such a difference in terminology: if you start talking about forcedness, you easily get such a negative attitude, and you could talk about the obligation to wear a mask. It is perfectly justified, it is a partial solution. The second is that we would have even more communication with people and would use resources to do so: constant information. It is not enough to have to go online to get this information, but to keep giving instructions on how to do it. You can't underestimate that. Then, of course, it would be important to get this trace even faster. There will still be feedback that there may be delays in schools and early childhood education as to when they will be informed. And that is a very sad situation because school and early childhood education have been able to inform us of the lice epidemic so far. So as soon as there is a lice epidemic, then there is a note at the door of the kindergarten and it can be noted, but then somehow here is this kind of overcautiousness born with this epidemic that has not been able to be communicated immediately to the classes. If it is made too complicated, if it is overinterpreted how it can be communicated, then of course it will bring delays. And then these practices of construction sites, shipyards, other jobs: there would also have to be better ways of tackling them, that there are no jobs where there will then be a meeting — if that attendance meeting is absolutely necessary — without masks. We hear that there are still practices of this kind. And then, of course, it is good to note that we now have the KRAR recommended that it should also take account of the regional epidemic situation when considering the focus of vaccination. Now certain regions can act as the engine of the epidemic for the whole of Finland. In the end, it counts how much more lives will be lost if we do not infect the epidemic with such means, including such things.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u56	And now it's pretty full. — Representative Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u57	Mr President! I will not take longer, but I would like to make two more points to correct what has been said here. First of all, when Mr Elomaa was here giving a fire speech about what the government was talking about and asked the government to wake up to this coercion test — we now have those forced tests at the border when you go to that airport. They're doing a health check on everyone, including this test. It is now in force, and it is done for everyone. [Leena Sea interlude] It is true what Mr Halla-aho said that it would have been desirable if this legal situation had been clearer in the past. This process has been regrettable, but I do not accept the argument that this has leaked like a sieve, as I have already referred to percentages here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u60	Thank you. Thank you. — Mr Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u61	Mr President! It is probably also a good idea to make progress in this area in order to achieve decision-making and the measures that will be taken. However, there are still two points I will address. I have been in the belief that the Greens value education, education and research, but after what Mr Järvinen said, I am not quite convinced of this, and I therefore urge him to look at the results of the University of Helsinki Veterinary Research Group on these coronas. I would like to add that it is of course very difficult to predict the progression of the disease, but what the government and the authorities can influence is the predictability of the action to be taken. Up to now, there has been an operational effort without strategy, response and urgency. I very much hope that it will also be understood to look to the future and think about the exit strategy on this. Britain does, Germany does. We also need a strategy to get out of this pandemic. It cannot be that there is always a reaction to the problems that lie ahead. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u62	Thank you. — Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Today, on Twitter, I read the tweet of President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic. He explained that he has just received his first vaccination from Pfizer-Biontech, and he says this: ‘From this point onward, while respecting others, he may be careful with the use of masks and with caution; the vaccineed or coronated may have caused the spread of the disease. “ This is an extremely important message for Finland as a whole. When we talk here about the important thing, about the way the borders like the corona, we must also talk about the larger picture, about what happens when our population is now being vaccinated, and we do not yet know all about this wretched disease. And I believe that this message from the President of the Republic on the use of masks is extremely important in this situation. I would like to say that, as a layman myself, I would like to see a mask on our hands, but of course I am waiting for those health authorities' guidelines on this issue, but this is what my heart says: yes, this mask must be justified here for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u64	Like this. — Representative Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that the Social Democrats have now become a promise, at least if Mr Nurmi is to believe that under no circumstances will there be any bypasses for vaccinations, and I am now awaiting the Prime Minister's instructions. Now the Prime Minister has the responsibility of information and guidance. I hope this now is a promise for the Finnish people, and the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group will take that view, and you will make sure that things like this are not going to happen. A few days ago I was on the MTV channel with Aki Lindén, including the Social Democrat, and he promised that this law on pre-tests would be coming, but he did not answer that because. Perhaps from there you can tell us when this government proposal is coming, what we have been waiting for for six months now, which I have been talking about — and the party chairman and representative Elomaa, of course, meant this, for Mr Nurminen to be more specific. And as far as these customs dogs are concerned, unfortunately, Mr Järvinen has now gone to listen to this debate, but we have a very serious situation, and we have a lot of unemployment, and the elderly have been home for a year, have not been able to go to sports and at first have not even been able to get to the relatives and have made a lot of messages that it is really hard, and then we should do everything we can. For example, when I looked at this case of Helsingin Sanomat, Customs’ Control Director Grönberg tells me that 90 per cent of the 400 exercises were able to be verified. Isn't that enough? Is this really supposed to do everything possible or not? In fact, I find it quite inappropriate that, when this has also become a wish, From Customs and people are hoping for this, Mr Järvinen will laugh here in the face when people think it would be good for this activity to continue. Somehow it seems that hopefully it is not the attitude with which we view the fact that we are doing everything we can to make fun of our faces when one of the representatives wants to talk about things like this here. The activities of assistant dogs are very extensive. We know from assistant dogs that they smell diseases, the need for medication. I personally know a representative of the Greens from Hyvinkää, who has such an assistant dog, who has learned to smell various diseases, and he is able to avoid massive medication. Perhaps Mr Järvinen should contact this Green delegate to tell him how the dogs are doing and how they are doing it. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u66	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u67	Mr President! This is where Mr Guzenina referred to the statements made by the President of the Republic. I would refer to the recent assessment by UN Secretary-General António Guterres when he spoke at the UN Human Rights Council, and he said that this pandemic has been used in part of the world as a tool to suppress government critics.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u74	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u75	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kiljune and to the government for allowing criticism, but I would criticise without permission. Mr Nurminen admittedly made a good speech on this that Finland would not be vaccinated on grounds of ethnicity or otherwise, but such statements have been made by health authorities that this would be necessary. Now I would be interested to hear whether this speech by Nurminen is private thinking or the position of the government. Is the government going to do this, or are we talking about our own?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u79	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u80	Mr President! There's been facial masks here. Mr Guzenina also pointed out that, after receiving the vaccine, President Niinistö had urged everyone to wear a face mask, as should be the case. We need to continue using these facial masks for a long time before vaccinations are completed, and we do not yet know how long they will last. There has also been support for face masks from both the Greens and indeed the Demars, and even Minister Saarikko has publicly suggested that trade and public transport should have a face mask. Now that we're about to make a decision,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u86	Like this. — Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to keep the speeches as if they did not inspire any more speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Here, in his speech, Mr Nurminen very bravely defended all the government's efforts to curb the corona crisis, and I understand that everything possible and necessary has also been done for this border health security. Personally, I have not considered the matter so much from a party political point of view as I have experienced from the point of view of Mr Nurminen's case, although I admit that there have also been speeches from this side of the Chamber and from my own team, in which quite a bit of the party political aspect has been involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u90	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u91	Mr President! There has been talk here of a certificate of preliminary tests, which the government has now taken up, thanks to the statement by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the certificate of preliminary tests was also spoken by Mrs Elomaa and Mr Meri. The fourth statement of the True Finns was: “The government requires that the government prepares a model test certificate. “ Quickly. This is what we Finns really hope you, a good government, will do. And quick means fast, as fast as possible. And if there are other legislative proposals in the Ministry, such as, for example, social welfare laws, put them aside for a moment. Do what is most important for the Finns at the moment, i.e. a prior test certificate quickly. And we also present this HUS model: 72 hours and then a retest. So this is our steak: quickly — not by dimming or waiting or stalling or tiring, but at a quick pace. Mr President! We now have the problem here in Finland that the corona is spreading among the foreign-language population. And yes, you have to wonder where you've failed. You, the government, have told us that many different languages have sent that information and have tried to promote people's understanding of the instructions given, but somewhere there is a complete failure if we have so many of these events – we now have Turku, we have Kouvola, we have Savonlinna. Where's the problem, and what do we do with this? The question here is that you must bring this up immediately in the next negotiations: how are we going to increase the awareness of the foreign-language population on these issues? It cannot be that the infections are spreading, and then perhaps we are thinking here that these groups of staff are going to have access to interest-rate vaccinations, for example. We must not be indifferent in Finland, no one must be indifferent, not a native Finn or a foreign language. Everyone must be committed to taking responsibility for this situation. And then as far as the person who is unable to wear a mask is concerned, if there is a health reason, such as Mr Kiljunen, you raised a very important point. We who are able to use masks so that those who are unable to use are safe and protected. So let us not forget that there really are a lot of people with breathing problems, the elderly, or those who otherwise have a problem that cannot be used. But we who can, we will. There's no room for indifference. And neither should Finland be a country that cannot say no. Limits are love, you have to say fair and square that no, don't be without mask, mask on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u93	Like this. — and Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u94	Mr President! If we are now looking at this year-long corona pandemic in Finland, we have made decisions here, quite unanimously, over government-opposition boundaries, across party boundaries. By these decisions, but above all by the responsible efforts of the Finns to follow the instructions, the advice, the restrictions that have been given, the first wave and the second wave, we survived quite well. And it is clear to me that this must be done across party lines, because this is not a problem for any party, either by the government or by the opposition, and no one had been able to prepare for this type of thing. Mistakes have been made. You have to learn from mistakes. It's obvious. It's human when you meet a whole new one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u99	And now it's quite full. — Mr Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u100	Mr President! Of course, as far as this order of vaccination is concerned, we are also going to have to listen to the health authorities. But, as has become public today, what has been said by President Saarikko, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u103	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u104	Mr President! Here the two previous speakers have already spoken a lot about what I have in mind, and I do not want to prolong the debate, but it is a little sad to hear that there has been opposition to such straws here. As far as I know, none of the experts have suggested raising the foreign-language population in the vaccine queues by,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u107	Eleven statements have been made during the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. In the debate, with the support of Mia Laiho Pia Kauma, five statements of opposition have been made. In addition, with the support of Mia Laiho Pia Kauma, the debate has continued to include a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u108	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Representative Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u109	Mr President! The proposal to implement the European Union's common fisheries policy at national level is a good thing for Finland as a whole. [Falling—President : Shh! ] As the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry points out, the overall objective of the quota system is to improve the possibilities for commercial fishermen to plan and schedule their fishing activities in such a way as to meet market demand and to smooth out and increase the supply of domestic fish on the market, which will contribute to improving the profitability of their business. In the case of Finnish professional fishermen, it is essential that the reform does not result in excessive additional paperwork or other red tape hampering the pursuit of business activities. And since apparently there will be no further bureaucracy, let this show go through. What, then, is the situation of professional fishermen in Finland in general? The publication of the preliminary information package on commercial fisheries in the new maritime areas of the Natural Resources Centre raises concerns. The catch of the most economically important species of fish, such as whitefish, perch, cologne and salmon, was small. According to the same publication, the number of active fishermen has fallen by less than half over 2,100 in a decade. This should also serve as a wake-up call for our country's decision-makers. The conditions for professional fishing in our country must be safeguarded, and decision-making must take into account this very small group of hard-working people. They make it possible for all of us to have domestic fresh fish available on the fish counters at the shops. Domestic fish is also healthy local food. In Varsinais-Suomi, the way I live in the Archipelago Sea is close to my heart and my appreciation for the fishermen is great. When Finland recovers from the corona, perhaps we could consider that in the future, domestic fishing could offer bread for more and more tables. I would therefore hope that the government parties will take a closer look at the possibilities of commercial fishing in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u110	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Representative Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u111	Mr President! In this government proposal, the aim of the Food Act is to streamline regulation and control, but without endangering food safety. In general, food safety is at a good level in Finland. There are challenges. Salmonella is low in Finland, but salmonella is increasingly found in imported feeds. This poses really great challenges for supervision. The proposal will make it possible to better address food fraud and counterfeiting. The penalty fee improves the possibilities for monitoring. The committee raises the important issue of the country of manufacture, the country of origin, so there is still much to improve. Real knowledge of the origin of food is very important. There are even misleading labels on the shelves of certain products using national symbols. At EU level, Finland must require more comprehensive origin labelling. The committee underscores the importance of food production. However, when controls and regulation are increased, they must be flexible and avoid red tape. Mr President! The committee will also address the situation of small slaughterhouses. The operation of small slaughterhouses should be facilitated and supported. For example, there would be more small entrepreneurs in the north and elsewhere if direct sales and small-scale activities were possible. Of course, this also requires compliance with important control and legal provisions, as well as hygiene requirements: if small slaughterhouses are allowed to come, hygiene requirements are important. Animal welfare is also important. At this point I will also mention the situation of the sheep farms that have been on the news recently. Some have sold this meat for ritual slaughter, halal meat. This ban on ritual slaughter, among other things, has been very much highlighted by the Finns of Peru, and today I have even submitted a bill on this subject. The Food Act provides for this basic levy of EUR 150. However, it will of course raise costs, and this is a very important issue, especially for small operators, an additional cost, so it must also be ensured that these small businesses in particular will receive advice, guidance. And you also have to be very careful not to do overlapping actions, such as extra checks and overlapping checks, which will result in additional charges. Smaller companies in particular are very sensitive when there is a lot of spending and production costs are high. Finally, I would like to underline this cooperation between the authorities. It must also be summed up in this food security. And finally, of course, everything a and o is that animal welfare is also taken into account in every respect. That is what consumers demand today. In the case of Finnish food and exports, the Finnish product, which is produced in those fields and forests, is of the highest quality. We ourselves, as consumers, must also value it very high, and we marketmen should wake up. That is a very first class, and it should also be taken into account in the price, and this message must be brought to the world. Finnish food produced here is the world's number one. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u112	That's right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-19-ps-26.u113	The 11th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session of 23.3.2021. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole reading of the draft amending budget: The debate will begin at the plenary session on Tuesday 23/3.2021 at 14.00 p.m., with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 10 a.m. on Tuesday 23.3.2021. The relevant votes will take place on Wednesday 24 March 2021. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
