ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u2	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u3	Mr President! Italy has decided to use the money it receives from the EU interest rate subsidy to raise, among other things, its low birth rate. The plan is to pay, i.e. with Finnish money, 250 euros per month for one child up to the age of 21. This is a lot more than the Finnish child benefit. At the same time, Spain is spending its part on improving industry and experimenting with a four-day working week. It invests in, among other things, the battery industry, which means that we Finns pay direct industrial support to a competitor. We Finns are going to pay for Italian child labour and the reduced working week in Spain. Please tell us in concrete terms how the Finnish worker or entrepreneur will benefit from the strengthening aid granted by Italy to its citizens, paid for by us or paid for by the Spanish to work less.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u4	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u5	Mr President! The government has recently submitted its own EU policy report to Parliament, which assumes that each country in the European Union is responsible for its own economy. The government is not in favour of any sort of joint and several liability arrangement for the European Union. For example, we are not in favour of joint and several Eurobonds, and we assume that each Member State will now draw up recovery and recovery support plans under this recovery instrument, which will target these common funds to those areas where new sustainable growth will be created in line with the country-specific recommendations for structural reforms. These programmes will be discussed in the Council. All Member States can say their own words on where the resources of the recovery instrument are being allocated and Finland assumes that they must generate new, sustainable growth. If the funds were subsequently misdirected, an emergency brake has also been agreed to stop the payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u6	And now I ask those representatives who want to ask further questions on this particular subject to stand up and press the V button. — Representative I'll let the Lehto go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u7	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that this EU corona package, as it went through, would change the EU's core policy, and Finland has not consented to this when it joined the EU. The package is a transfer of power to the EU and undermines Finland's sovereignty. It is not morally right for our people, under the leadership of the five Green Left parties, to take Finland to the EU Union for Income Transfers. The opposition could knock the package down if, instead of voting emptyly, the Coalition Party ended up opposing the package, as we Finns are opposed to. There is an initiative in the House on the referendum on the EU recovery package, but I seriously ask the government: does it not call for the moral acceptance of the people, that is to say, the holding of a referendum, to bring Finland into such a Union of transfers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u8	And Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u9	Mr President! This so-called EU own resources decision to create this future multiannual financial framework and recovery fund is now in the hands of Parliament. This Parliament will decide Finland's position on it. This week we have received the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The majority of the Constitutional Committee assumes that this Parliament's decision must be taken by a qualified majority, a two-thirds majority. That is the case, and of course we all respect this, both the Government and the Parliament, and it is to be hoped that a solution will be found in good cooperation in this Chamber. There has been a wide-ranging civil debate on this issue, which the government has also wanted to contribute to. This debate has taken place, among other things, in connection with the Government's report on the EU, and this report presents the Government's comprehensive European policy line. We are in favour of a European Union that would strengthen the resilience of Finland and the continent as a whole and in which the economy is sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u10	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u11	Mr President! The Government's approach seems to be that questions put publicly by Parliament or journalists are not answered or answered about wood hay, but that appropriate information is leaked to the media. On Tuesday, Yle reported that an official from the EU threatened Finland with unprecedented consequences if we knocked out the recovery package. It is obvious that the information has been leaked from the Prime Minister's Office and that it was meant to scare the Parliament behind the package. Mr President! It reminds me of the 61st note crisis, when the threats ordered from the Soviet Union secured the continuation of the President-in-Office. I would like to ask Prime Minister Marin: do you not find this course of action embarrassing, and do you have any reason not to tell us who had this debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u12	And Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u13	Mr President! I do not know who has had such a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u14	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u15	Mr President! Now that the Prime Minister’s recent sentence is not credible, however, when his secretary of state, Kare Halonen, has commented to the media that she knows the matter as such, but does not say who has threatened Finland with ‘precedented reputation loss and political pressure’ if we reject the gift package intended for the four-wheelers. This almost sounds like organised crime to us that billions, billions of euros, are being blackmailed by such threats. So this debate has taken place between the Prime Minister's Office and the EU, and now the Prime Minister has just claimed that he does not know who has had this debate in his own office. As I said, there was Moscow, where the Finns kept in touch — now it is Brussels. And in the same way, this Brussels card is used without shame in domestic politics. So I ask the Prime Minister again who is threatening Finland. Is the government going to give in to threats from foreigners and force its own representatives to vote in favour of it with group discipline?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u16	And Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u17	Mr President! Surely in this Chamber it can be thought that the Prime Minister knows every call from every official, every debate, but that is not the case. For the last week, I have been fully attached to the negotiations on the government's spending limits, to the political work which the Prime Minister is doing, and I do not know, as I said before, who between whom this debate has taken place, nor have I been involved in this matter in such a way as to be able, for example, to answer what Yle has learned from. If I knew, I'm sure this is where I could say it, but I don't have this kind of information.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u18	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u19	Mr President! This is indeed a difficult solution for the assembly. There are two sides to this: This package is bad, the government, by its majority, has negotiated, agreed with other EU countries. But the EU is important, it is necessary for Finland, and Finland's membership of the EU is everything to us – a functioning EU and Finland's position on the negotiating tables of the European Union. I would add that we are, as it were — in football terms — giving the red card to the government on this outcome of the negotiations and the yellow card to the European Union that such a policy of economic policy with greater solidarity is unacceptable in the future. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto: what do you think would happen in terms of economic policy, the economy, if Finland were to bring this down? And I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, what would be the impact of this on security policy, given that Finland has in due course joined the European Union,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u20	Like this. — And Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u21	Mr President! First of all, in that recent debate: Let any EU official say this to us, it must not have any effect — it must not have any effect on you or on the government. We must be able to assess for ourselves what its impact would be. Mr Orpo's question: The impact would be a European earthquake. The fact that the Union would not have a new budget, a seven-year budget, in a situation such as this, in which the whole continent is in a corona crisis, would be — I am using this term — a disaster. [Base Finns Group : Do you mean that they do not?]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u22	And Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u23	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Orphan, for the question. The European Union is living in a new situation, in the face of growing threats, of course. I am referring only to the crises in Russia-Ukraine and Navalnyi. I myself have been pleased recently that the European Union has been able to form common positions, very strong positions on these issues. Finland has been involved in shaping these positions, and it is quite clear that the European Union is also an important security community for us. If I think of a situation in which Finland would not enter into this agreement, then this stimulus package would certainly have consequences for us to wonder about our position, our decision-making capacity in such a situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! Let's try to get back to one more question for one minister. Representative Harkimo will show you an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u25	Mr President! Finland is about to receive 2.7 billion from the EU recovery package, and it is still being clarified where it is being distributed. The aid will be distributed at this rate in a year's time, so what does it have to do with resuscitation? Spain is making a multi-billion-dollar investment in battery production, and the whole Italian package is worth 200 billion. The package is very unfair from the perspective of Finnish companies. Minister Lintilä, what do you think is the competition of Finnish export companies in relation to southern Europe when subsidies in the EU are so unevenly distributed?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u26	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u27	Mr President! I find it hard to believe that in Spain, for example, there will be some significant separate support for these projects for the battery industry, because we still have EU regulations on how much national aid can be where, in other words, I do not believe it. We have done very good groundwork on this package, and I believe it will do so. The interest of Finnish companies has been very good, and much of this has been done with both regions and companies. The challenge, of course, is that we must get it as effectively as possible so that it has maximum effectiveness. But it is up to the EU to ensure that it does not distort competition that it causes clear competitive situations, could it be said?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u28	Congressman Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u29	Mr President! Contrary to what is constantly being said here, this is not a separate part of the seven-year financial framework, it is a whole. There are always parts in the whole that are good, and there are parts in it that are bad. I'm going to put this at the bad end, but if it's going down in this room, imagine the situation when the Prime Minister of Finland and the Minister of Finance are going to negotiate the next budget. It's gonna be bad. This seven-year financial framework... [ Arguments about a group of Finns — The President knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u34	Like this. — And Minister Vanhanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u35	Mr President! Norway may have been a little bit on the sovereign debt market that we in the Ministry have not been able to secure this distinction, but Kauppalehti had such an estimate that when we have many rounds of bonds and get minus interest, Norway clearly has a plus on both sides of 1%. On behalf of the Ministry, I cannot ensure that this is the case. Of course, it tells us that a small country participating in the single currency, which provides its own economy in a reliable way, has benefited enormously from this system, at least on the basis of recent years. And yet another outside country, although one of the richest countries in the world, Norway, does not seem to be able to achieve the same level of interest that benefits itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u36	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u37	Mr President! This debate is quite incredible, because it is always going to be sidetracked by why Finland is involved in this – that is the ultimate question. And now we just received an answer from these board members. That is why we are in this package, because the euro and its membership of the EU would go with it. Is this the official government position? Have we been blackmailed into doing this because EU membership is being cut off in many countries? In fact, we know that this saves the euro, saves German and French banks, which alone have more than 1000 billion claims from Italy alone. We know these facts in this house, and now you are painting threats to the people here that, if this Parliament does not accept this package, it will mean that the European Union will fall apart. Aren't you ashamed? Speak the truth to the people that... [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Janet question!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u40	All right, and Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u41	Mr President! The net fee for this package is at around EUR 3 billion. It'll be paid in 37 years. It may still vary a little from what our final intake is. But to this assessment in your question that this package would be made because there would be banks in southern and central Europe that would otherwise fall: I cannot sign that. But if that were true, is it thought to let the banks go? Do we remember what happened in 2008 and 2009 in the United States, then in Iceland? One major bank in the United States caused a global recession. As a result, we lost over 8% of our GDP immediately. It is not worth exorcising that only banks should be allowed to collapse in southern Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u42	Congressman Valtonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u43	Mr President! It is common knowledge that, with this package, effective financial solidarity for Finland will not increase, because we are involved in monetary union and, through the Eurosystem, we have more than 80 billion of our solidarity already at the moment and, accordingly, if the recovery instrument were not made, it would come to the same extent at least. It is therefore misleading to say that this would somehow increase our contribution. On the other hand, the Finns have consistently supported the euro. They have two scenarios in the programme published two years ago, and I'm sure they will sometimes tell the Finnish people how they want the euro differential to be implemented. But I would have asked the Prime Minister: when this is more of a symbol of European unity and when other European countries are strongly committed to this, has the Finnish Government committed itself to returning to the 'no bail-out' principle in the long term?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u44	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u45	Mr President! Of course, as Mr Tuppurainen said, we assume that each Member State is responsible for its own finances, for its own debts, and we have not supported the issues raised here. The big picture of this recovery instrument, the big picture that perhaps some of the representatives in this Chamber want to forget about, is the reason why such an instrument has been made. It has been done because we are in a global pandemic that has hit not only human health but also the real economy in an unprecedented way — an unprecedented attack on the real economy of every Member State, of all the countries of the world — because we have had to introduce strict restrictive measures, to close down areas of society. And this recovery instrument is intended to bring the whole of Europe on its feet together from this exceptionally deep crisis in which we are, unfortunately, still in the midst. That is the essence of the package that has been launched, and Finland is part of the European Union. We're part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u46	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u47	Mr President! Contrary to what the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mika Niikko, claimed, this package does not include support for banks, as it did during the last parliamentary term. Unlike Mika Niikko and several other Finns in the last parliamentary term, this is not just a question of the euro area countries' responsibility but of the EU as a whole. It has a key role to play in this multiannual financial framework, and yes, this solution also has to do with the number of people we belong to. Our place is in the EU, and the fact that the Finnish Parliament would now reject this package of EU own resources would have a devastating impact on Europe's ability to function and recover after this pandemic. That would also have a devastating effect, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u48	And Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u49	Mr President! A majority of EU Member States have already ratified this so-called own resources decision, and some countries are still in the process of making decisions, as in Finland. In Austria, for example, we are still in the process, as is the case in the Netherlands, but as far as I know, this type of debate has not taken place here in Finland, which has been linked to this legal process. This is something very much the Finnish debate has been here in its entirety. We have considered that the legal basis for this whole is Article 122, which, in an exceptional crisis — this corona pandemic, for example, is comparable to a natural disaster — makes financial solidarity between Member States possible. It is not contrary to the no bail-out principle. This Article 125 is not violated. I believe that this is now progressing in all the Member States, and the eyes are now also on Finland. We will take this decision as required by the Constitutional Committee, that is clear. A two-thirds qualified majority is needed for this decision,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u50	And now it's quite full.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u51	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u52	Mr President! Finland needs a viable Union and a sustainable market around it. The damage caused by the interest rate can only be corrected together. This package will also speed up the green transition, combat climate change, promote biodiversity and raise skill levels. It is clear that if this whole thing falls because of Finland, it would be a huge blow to our reputation. We would be the rocker of a common boat, causing a Europe-wide political and economic crisis. So I ask the government: how do we ensure that Finland does not make it difficult for the EU to recover from the crisis, but can continue to act as a reliable, common good partner in the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u53	And Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u54	Mr President! Since the beginning of our membership, Finland has been pragmatic in its European policy towards all the tables where decisions are taken. All Member States have one vote in EU decision-making, we are equal, and Finland has wisely used this vote. I would like to remind the Group of the Finns Party in particular that the EU is not a coercive community, that there is no obligation to be involved in the EU. One of the proofs of this is that yes, Great Britain was able to leave. This last week in the European Parliament it has been ensured that we have a completely new relationship with Great Britain, but it was not easy for the Great Power either. We have solved this in the EU report: Finland wants to support a strong and united European Union, because through it we are also in a better position to resolve all global crises, the least of which is the climate crisis, to which future generations also expect us here and now to find lasting solutions. That is what this recovery instrument is all about: sustainable, green growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u56	Irade the Talman! För Finland som ett litet land har den europeiska gemenskapen alltid variant viktig. Finlands linje har alltid variant att påverka politiken i unionens kurna. Man ska sitta vi de brord där besluten fattas. Man ska vara activ, man ska skydda sina intressen och man ska, liksom denna vecka, samtidigt kunna se den stora bilden.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u57	Mr President! The effect would be that the Union's seven-year budget and the accompanying recovery package would fall, they would not exist. Everyone can judge what its effect would be,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u60	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u61	Mr President! A very expensive price has been paid for Finland’s independence. Now, with a smile of piety, the government is saying that it will be dropped by pressing a button, and some of the opposition has also announced that they are playing with Finland's independence by abstaining. The article on the disgrace of Finland, published today by Economist Tuomas Malinen, relates to this matter, and it is full of stuff. I suggest everyone read it. Prime Minister! The Social Democrats are known to be in the pockets of others. Now you're giving up our independence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u62	And Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u63	Mr President! First of all, this situation does not make me smile at all. This is a very serious question — this is a very serious question. Is Finland the country that would overturn the EU's entire multiannual financial framework, this jointly agreed recovery instrument? Do we understand the impact it would have on the EU as a whole, what economic and political crisis it would now have?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u64	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u65	Mr President! As the first questioner suspected that Finland was under pressure, I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that because of my own opinions I have been under tremendous pressure, but my broad shoulders can withstand it and my soul will not suffer from it. But I would stress, Mr President, that when we discuss this matter, it is worth our while to commit ourselves to the agreements that we have made. The Treaty of Accession, which was drawn up in the order in which the Constitution was laid down, has certain conditions and must be respected. When I read the European report just mentioned by European Minister Tytti Tuppurainen last night, it is quite clear — and the European Parliament has approved its road map in December 2020 — that we are going to have more taxes, such as corporate tax for businesses, the CCCTB, the common corporate tax base.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u66	Like this. — And Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u67	Mr President! It may be useful to clarify here that this own resources decision, on which Parliament will vote, is not about any form of EU tax. This does not determine any new EU taxes, [Heckling] I also want to encourage Parliament, and also in the EU report, that Finland should bring its own views on these so-called EU own resources. The Commission is here to present a proposal on them in June. It is potentially becoming a new EU own resource based on emissions trading, it is perhaps becoming a so-called digital tax-based own resource, and so is this carbon border mechanism, which we need to look at both from a national interest perspective and from a European added value perspective. It is possible that with these so-called new own resources, the EU will receive the kind of income that will in future reduce our direct contribution to membership, and that would, of course, be very desirable in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u68	And Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u69	Mr President! The government is missing that big picture. Finland will receive around 2 billion from the EU's recovery instruments. Compared to the fact that, last year alone, our private sector debt grew by nearly 13 billion — that is to say, government debt. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the ECB’s balance sheet has grown by nearly EUR 2900 billion. The money that has already flooded the market and is still promised is now a real threat of overheating and rising interest rates. For the past 16 months, things have changed quickly. A year ago, a prescribed resuscitation drug would now be poison. The structural problems of Finland and the southern EU countries remain, but as a remedy, time has passed this loose fiscal policy and thus the recovery instrument. Mr Vanhanen, does the government now have the backbone to update the picture of the situation and do the EU a huge favour by halting the passage of the recovery instrument when it is not found in one opposition party?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u70	And the finance minister, Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u71	Mr President! It should be borne in mind that this seven-year budget is in fact the main issue in this own resources decision. It is considerably larger than this recovery instrument and it also guides this decision-making process. They're all the same. The recovery instrument will be used during this seven-year budget period. Its funding has only been arranged differently. Normally, we pay the budget directly in the form of membership fees, which are defined. In this case, the immediate payment obligation will be suspended by the Union's borrowing. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u72	And this theme has now been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u73	Mr Mykkänen will present us with the next topic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u74	Mr President! In the debate on the mid-term question last autumn, Mr Vanhanen, you said: ‘However, the government must continue to work to build confidence in Finland. First of all, confidence is enhanced by the fact that state budgeting will return to the spending limits procedure next year.’ So I saw you in September. Well, then what happened at the debt row? The frames were broken when the left-wing May Day billion slipped on top of the cake. The base proposal also included more than ten billion borrowings for the next year and the following year. As a whole, due to the squirming of the centre, Finland’s debt-taking in the next few years shone even in blood to stop by 2 per cent. Is this two-hundredths difference between left-wing debt now the center of responsibility line, or are we just being offered plays and visions? You were beaten by the debt-absorbing accelerants.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u75	And Minister of Finance Vanhanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u79	And now those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter, please press the V button and stand up. — Mr Mykkänen continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u80	Mr President! You, Prime Minister Marin, have at least been in the final negotiations and are up to date with what has been agreed. In February, in the opening debate of the Parliaments, you made the following promise: ‘After 2020, the State’s financial framework has been restored,and preparations for the future spending limits have been made. “ Since your promise, the economic outlook has improved. A clear historical upturn is forecast for the next few years, both in Finland and in the world. You believe in a climate-restrained Keynesian economic policy. Shouldn't we stop indebtedness and pick up a buffer for the next downturn? On the other hand, you have just decided to scrap the spending limits — 20 years of expenditure — and to increase your government debt by EUR 1750 million for the following years. At what point did the Mayan billion become the most important issue for the debt group, rather than financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u81	And now Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u82	Mr President! As the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, described above, the government's mid-term debate, the spending limits debate, is still in progress. We will continue with the whole government today with the spending limits debate from 17.30 p.m., and hopefully we will be able to conclude this whole today and we will also be able to report on it publicly, and very precisely on these reasons behind these various issues. But the big economic picture of the government is common: we want to boost economic growth because it is the only sustainable way and the only way to make Finland’s debt fold, the growth of debt folds. We are looking for growth, and I believe that we share this with the opposition. I have also listened very carefully to the contributions from the Group of the European People's Party and they have called for economic growth to be boosted, and I think that is the right line in the midst of a crisis of this kind, where we are. We are also undertaking structural reforms — these we have done so far and we will continue to do so. We want to strengthen employment because we see that it is the only sustainable way to improve the state of the Finnish economy when we have an ageing population and our dependency ratio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u83	Congressman Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u84	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Marin, as far as the information that has come so far is correct, fiscal policy is now becoming clearly lighter than previously anticipated. I would also like to remind you of what you said on the sustainability road map last autumn: ‘However, if the Finnish economy is being asked for a faster interest rate on epidemic shocks, the Government will reserve to tighten up its fiscal policy’. And now we know that at the end of the day, the economy contracted about half as much as it did at the time of the approval of this mentioned entry and the debt was reduced. Well, then there is precisely the argument that fiscal policy starts to take its foot off the gas and slow down. That is the direction in which the change in its fiscal policy should be, and is it not, therefore, quite grotesque and strange that you are now justifying economic growth when forecasts have become more positive and next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u85	Like this. — Minister Vanhanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u86	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen’s description of economic development is exactly that — partly because the corona epidemic has been managed in a much better way than the economic forecasts at the beginning of the autumn may have been based on, and so was the estimate that the impact of the interest rate on the economy would be much more negative than it was. Now it seems that we are beginning a very strong period in the world economy, even a short-term boom. Its birth is also linked to these common EU measures, and fortunately this is the case because it will have an impact on how the Finnish economy develops as well. At the beginning of autumn, it was estimated quite pessimisticly that our debt ratio would fold and could not turn down until 2030. As I said earlier in the winter, we now have the opportunity to do that much earlier, and hopefully in the evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u87	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u88	Mr President! There is now an absolute demand for real economic and employment measures. Now that information has been leaking to the public that the framework is going to exceed about 1.4 billion, is it not, on the contrary, a pro-cyclical policy now, knowing that the rise in the world economy is actually improving and perhaps just around the corner? On the other hand, it has been said from that spending limits debate that the employment targets will once again be postponed to the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u89	Now, Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u90	Mr President! Unfortunately, this debate is a little side-by-side, because unfortunately we on the government side cannot and must not yet tell us what the likely outcome of the spending limits is. In this respect, I apologise. If it ends tonight, then only then will we be able to make this information public, and I believe that when we publish it there will also be positive answers to the questioner. Let's get back to this tonight and maybe next week's Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u91	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u92	Mr President! However, in the light of public information, we are now having this debate in the spending limits debate, and it is quite understandable that Finns are interested in it. Finns want to know what the future awaits them with the decisions of this government, and according to the preliminary data, there is more debt, more taxes, but still not the employment decisions that Finland so desperately needs and which, in particular, the Finance Minister's Centre said it is going to defend, so I ask: what kind of employment measures is the government promoting in its own period, with what timetable, or are these necessary decisions that are relevant for the future passed on to the next governments?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u93	And Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u94	Mr President! Since autumn, the Government has been preparing employment measures. Today, decisions are taken on them, and they will be announced tonight. Unfortunately, I have no further right to say in this context. But the government's economic line includes employment measures, just as has already been laid down in the past. The government will also handle the spending limits in a very responsible way. The aim is that this government does not leave to the next Parliament decisions that belong to this period, and that is what we will stick to.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u95	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u96	Mr President! However, we know from the results of the framework debate that employment measures are weak, that expenditure is not prioritised, that the spending limits are exceeded by 1.4 billion, that debt is rising, and that is all, in a situation where there is a prospect of a major economic surge on the eve, we are talking about up to 6%. As has been described here, in a situation like this, of course, one might imagine that, at the end of the reign, a policy of blackmail will be adopted. I cannot quite understand it from a point of view other than the fact that the deficit is good and desirable for you in all circumstances. My real question, however, is about these so-called turbulent emission shocks, which, according to press reports, affect transport and agriculture. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: do you want to further weaken the possibilities of driving and domestic food production?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u97	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u98	Mr President! I can assure you that the government's objective is not to make it difficult for people to move. We well understand that we have a large, sparsely populated country and in many places in Finland we need our own car, which should be able to move to work as well as to do business in shops and other important services and things in their lives. In other words, we do not intend to make it difficult for people to move, nor do we intend to weaken the conditions for Finnish food production, on the contrary. Yes, we want Finland to have domestic, clean, good food and we have a vibrant and vibrant countryside.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u99	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u100	Mr President! The government debt man has been a sad play in recent weeks. Prior to the beginning of the row, ministers assured the Finns that living as a debt would end at last. The government promised that reforms to improve employment would be carried out, that taxes would not be increased and that the spending limits would not be scrapped. Many Finns expected that the centre in particular would now finally find its much softened spine and put the government’s economic and employment policy in line. But what happened? In recent days, many Finns are disappointed. I admit that many people in the United States are also disappointed in this play.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u103	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u104	Mr President! Now I did not quite hear the end of that question, but we asked about this process. This framework debate has been exceptionally long, it has been difficult, as has been described very honestly in public, and I myself have said that I have had no knowledge of how this is going to happen and what the outcome is, whether or not a unified government will come out of the spending limits debate, because this negotiating situation has been genuinely difficult, and I have also said it very directly. The government has found an agreement on the whole. Everyone has had to meet the other, everyone has had to be flexible, and together we have sought a solution that is sustainable from everyone's point of view. The chairmen of the government parties have agreed on this whole. Today, in the spending limits debate, we are still going over the details, and I hope that tonight we will finally be able to finish this half-way, the spending limits line.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u105	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u106	Mr President! The spending limits have also been turned into years to come, and we hope that the corona will be won by the summer. It is important that we now also draw attention to the huge learning gap and the care debt that this crisis inevitably leaves behind. Many have been deprived of mental health services, and older people in particular have suffered loneliness. The hobbies of children and young people have been paused, and now there is a risk that many of them will not return. The involvement of citizens and the coping with the trauma and crisis of the corona are probably of little importance to anyone. We all know that the shadow of the '90s recession has been long. Overgenerational exclusion is also a genuine risk. My question to our Minister for Finance is this: has the government also made financial provision for the social aftercare of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u107	And Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u108	Mr President! Throughout the course of the interest rate, the government's economic policy has also been that the management of the interest rate is also the best economic policy. It applies to this activity during the epidemic, but of course it also applies to the management of the post-corona consequences. The sooner we can clear the tracks, the better. Everyone knows, at least all those who have — and I believe that all Finns have — close friends who have been in a different kind of hospital care and other care know that postponing treatment will never improve. And it is our duty as a nation, after this disaster, to ensure that aftercare takes place on a large scale, and it is recognised in the debate on the spending limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u109	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u110	Mr President! It was discussed above that it was time to slow the economy down when we had a year of 3% minus, and now it is predicted that 2% would be a plus. Now is the time to slow down so that the economy does not overheat. In my opinion, and probably objectively, we should be aiming for more than four to five per cent growth over a period of several years. We have examples from the '90s that were able to rise quickly, and every additional percentage of growth, employment, will generate several billions in central government finances. This must also be proportionate to the temporary needs needed to rave and revise the budgetary framework. Mrs Kyllönen gave us examples of what we have to do with such unexpected spending in the framework: for example, for children and young people. Another example is support for organisations, where gambling incomes have also been weakened for several reasons. My question is: how can targetedly help these most vulnerable groups, children and young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u111	There's been a lot of crossovers. — Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u112	Mr President! This is not where the ministers of the Ministry of Education were invited, perhaps for their part. But the government is prepared financially for us to have the opportunity to do this. We all know the importance of this extensive network of national organisations. And at the same time, in these years, when the chances of entry have been substantially reduced, we also had to take into account in the spending limits debate. [PetriHuru’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u113	Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u114	Mr President! Public debt has been exponentially accelerated during the Marin government. Savings should be achieved quickly, but instead the government has focused on increasing spending. One very big question, about EUR 20 billion, is the reform of social security, which the government is pushing forward with bulls. The proposal is currently being discussed by Parliament. The key objective of the social reform should be to reduce costs or at least to curb them significantly. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] Mr President! It is inevitable that the main objective of the reform, rather than the development of social and health services, will be to implement the regional reform promoted by the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u115	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u116	Mr President! Now there are no STM ministers present, but the social reform that is part of this economy is important for the management of public finances, is absolutely important. The proposal has been submitted to Parliament. Parliament will assess it, including its economic impact, but I say it is one of the structural reforms that Finland needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u117	Like this. — Let us try to put the questions to the ministers who are present. The representative of Estonia shows an example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u118	Mr President! As I listened to President Saarikko on the steps of the Regulation House, I had hoped for the spending limits debate to become decisions that would support responsible economic policies and structural reforms that would increase the number of people employed. Unfortunately, this was not the case; expenditure is being increased, taxes are being increased, spending limits are booming and employment measures are shining by their absence. Mr Marin, you have often spoken of the need to balance public finances with EUR 2 billion, but the result is only a tenth of that. You have also promised to leave a sustainable economy to the next government. These measures will not even happen to the next or subsequent government. So I ask you, now that we are in the middle of the parliamentary term, are you satisfied that Finland will continue on the road to debt, tax increases and low employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u119	Like this. — And Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u120	Mr President! First of all, I did not recognize such a quote, but if there is one, I would be happy to take it in writing. I can assure you that the government wants to conduct a responsible economic policy. We want to make a responsible economic policy, [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: Where does it appear?] What are the means of achieving this? Creating growth is the first thing in the midst of such a crisis, where we are. If we do not produce growth, if we do not invest in growth, then everything after that will be a very rocky way to go. The first is growth. Another major entity is structural reforms. Social and health care reform is one example of these structural reforms, but of course employment measures are also at the heart of this, and those are the decisions we have taken and those decisions we will take in this debate and also after the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u121	It's been another minute. — Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u122	Mr. Speaker! It is extremely important that after a half-life and spending limits spirit, Finland's long-term financial management line continues, even from the time of Lipponen's government, where Finland takes care of its own debts and pays its own debts. And I can assure the people of the United States and others that this line will continue. On the other hand, Mr President, during this parliamentary term, I can describe the budget line of the coalition in such a way that they have been calling for a reduction or abolition of all taxes in Finland, billions of tax cuts, and at the same time for additional expenditure on people's therapy, business subsidies and airport subsidies — everything they have come up with. I would describe the economic line of the coalition as such a big pyramid scheme, making taxes payable by the state and increasing spending. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u123	Like this. — And Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-29-ps-49.u124	Mr President! I'm afraid I can't answer that.
