ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by the representative Riikka Purran et al. on the intermediate issue of Finland's preparedness for a hybrid effect based on migration flows. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 24 November 2021. With the support of Leena Meri Antti Häkkänen, the debate has put forward a proposal for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u2	We are now voting on whether the Government will enjoy the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u3	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u4	Mr President! That is the government's proposal that we have had in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and the report is unanimous. And now we are at second reading to accept this. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u7	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation. — Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u8	Mr President! There is a so-called pharmaceutical law and a change to it. This proposal extends the conditions for the establishment of a pharmacy so that a pharmacy can also be established where necessary to safeguard pharmacy services. A pharmacy and a secondary pharmacy can also be established within the social welfare and health care unit. The appeal procedure for decisions on the establishment of pharmacies and the areas where they are located would be reduced by removing the stage of the appeal procedure. A side pharmacy could be converted into a pharmacy if there are sufficient operational conditions for an independent pharmacy. The Act also provides for the inspection of the secondary pharmacy. The conditions for the prohibition of online service activities at the pharmacy will be specified and a provision on the pharmacy pick-up box will be added to the law. Health and well-being services could also be carried out at the pharmacy’s service point, and in the prison health care centre there could be mechanical dose distribution. This government proposal is good, and the Finns also supported this in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The law also includes the regulation of the price of a self-care medicinal product: the change to the fact that the retail selling price of a self-care medicinal product is not higher than the retail selling price of a medicinal product and at least the wholesale price of the medicinal product at national level. In addition, technical changes would be made to the price regulation of the medicinal product. The Finns Party is pleased that the original entry into force of this Act on 1 January 2022 was moved a little further, i.e. until April 1.4.2022. The reason for this is that pharmacies are given more time to prepare for the changes they will have. There is a small timetable, but I would like to tell you, because it was a bit of a problem for me in the committee debate as well. This law provides for the possibility that the Social Services Service Unit would have the right to maintain a limited pool of medicinal products for joint use due to the unforeseen or sudden needs of customers. This means that we are talking about services in the care of the elderly — units in which there may be very unpredictable and sudden situations, such as the transition to hospice, the need for palliative medication and treatment, or some other reason that an elderly person living in that care unit needs more pain relief than is available there. Then, for example, we will talk about opioid-based drugs, such as morphine. I therefore think it is very important that in this four-month period too, which is important before the law comes into force, care units take account of these sudden situations where customers may need medical treatment that their medicine cabinet may not provide. In particular, I am concerned that we are currently living in the midst of a corona virus epidemic, and many corona virus infections have also been detected in these service housing units and, accordingly, customers are being treated there. We know that there are a wide range of symptoms associated with the corona virus epidemic and that they are very hard on patients. Among other things, there is pain and breathing difficulties, and these problems must also be helped in these services of social services. Having worked in the care of the elderly, I know this also through my own work history, and I would like to stress in particular that not only will the law come into force, but also before the law comes into force, we will see to it that it is possible to give and receive medication there when it is necessary. Above all, Mr President, I would like to emphasise the right of older people to good palliative care and hospice care. I think it should be a subjective right for man. I welcome the fact that the bill takes account of these services in social welfare services, and the great flaw, which very often occurs in the evening, at night, when there are no staff and the doctor may not be present, will be corrected for the staff, the family and also the patients. Care will also be taken for those living in these service housing units. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u9	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u10	Mr President! This presentation is a good, moderate reform for the pharmacy to facilitate some authorisation, including the establishment of pharmacies and side pharmacies, for example, within the social services unit. I think that is reasonable and justified. After all, this legislation also includes the pharmacy pick-up boxes, which are today's. It is good that these can be introduced. But in these discussions I myself have also wanted to highlight the strengths, the pros and cons of our current pharmacy system — the fact that this pharmacy system provides us with a fairly comprehensive pharmacy network throughout the country, including the countryside, which would probably not happen if this system were to be radically changed. I have compared it at some point with the reform of the taxi legislation, where, when we started to correct the challenges of a region, taxis mostly in the capital region, the countryside lost all its small taxis and the taxi traffic in the capital also went very confused. So we don't make the same mistakes with these pharmacies. If we have areas where more pharmacies are needed, such as fast growing areas in Espoo, Vantaa and Helsinki, then of course new pharmacies must be established there and not under prolonged complaints. But let us not make the kind of reform that would take away a high - quality, skilled and instructive pharmacy from rural communities. I think in the referral debate, for example, I raised the case of Mr Petteri Orpo, the chairman of the public delegation: When he went to the pharmacy, the pharmacist’s competent staff drew attention to the fact that the symptoms are now of this type — immediately an ambulance. The man was able to seek treatment, and the man received the necessary treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u13	Thank you. — Mr Honkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u14	Mr President! Indeed, as we have heard, this proposal is intended to make such minor changes and to exempt this establishment of side pharmacies and the installation of these so-called medicine cabinets or automatic distribution systems. Indeed, we also dealt with this proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, as we know, the pharmacy system means a certain restriction on freedom of trade. In other words, the sale of medicines is not subject to free trade in Finland, but we have our own system for this. There have been strong arguments for this, and I still believe that there are very strong criteria for this restriction. Of course, it is true that it is necessary to facilitate the establishment of secondary pharmacies, especially in busy shops and other areas, especially in growth centres, where people often do business. As Mr Heinonen said, as a well-known friend of the countryside, pharmacies are indeed an important part of health care, especially in rural areas. However, although there are times when you hear speeches, particularly about the trade in medicines, that the sale of so-called 'over-the-counter medicines' should be liberalised and given the opportunity to do so to the retail sector, I am not in favour of this, as this would probably mean the loss of profitability and difficulties for the smallest rural pharmacies. As a result, the entire health system, which in Finland, however, works very well throughout the country, could get into trouble. At the end of the day, the pharmacy system needs to be developed, but it is still necessary to maintain this monopoly, which has very large public health grounds today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u15	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u16	Mr President! Mr Heinonen spoke very well and wisely, as always, and I really can fully sign this speech. In any case, Mr Honkonen's speech was not bad either, or Mr Juvosen, it had considerable merit. Yes, in relation to this theme and in this respect, I also support their ideas, and here we are now unanimously adopting this legislation. But I really want to underline this for myself, too, that in many small towns the pharmacy is the only accessible health service and in that sense it is very important that it is also secured. Finland's social welfare and health care services are now undergoing a major transformation as this major welfare area reform is progressing, and in this respect it is important that those familiar with people's daily lives and those safe local service providers in particular, so I agree with Mrs Heinonen's good speech on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u17	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u18	Thank you, Mr President! This is about financing unemployment benefits. In our current system, there is such a considerable downside that those Finns who belong to unemployment funds pay 5.5% of their earnings-related unemployment security — and this will lead to hundreds of euros in their unemployment security when they are no longer covered by basic daily allowance but by earnings-related contributions — but more than 90% of this improvement will be financed from the money of all Finns through employers and employees and through taxpayers' contributions. In today's alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposes that earnings-related unemployment benefit should be extended to all unemployed people. This would definitely be a fair system, and when the assembly presented it in the summer, all the parties made themselves known as supporters of this. I wonder why we cannot move forward on this. We are pressing for such a fair correction of our current unemployment benefit system to be made. This and other issues in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party will be discussed next week. Our alternative budget has really been awaited, for example, representatives of Lindtman and Viitanen have been looking forward to it very much. I hope that next week we will have a good debate on this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u19	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u20	Mr President! Yes, it is true that the Group Chairman of the Social Democrats Lindtman has been waiting for this in our alternative budget, and today it has indeed been published, an option for a sustainable future, which can therefore reduce our state debt by two and a half billion. Mr Zyskowicz raised this universal income-related unemployment benefit, and it is true that it is a special system. Every employee has to pay for it, but only part of it will then be paid at the worst time, i.e. when they are unemployed. We believe that this compensation should be for all workers, and that is why we have proposed extending this earnings-related unemployment benefit. After all, we have had a very good rate of unemployment in this very recent situation, regardless of the government's limited efforts, but the problem remains this long-term unemployment, and that is what we have also wanted to address in this option where we are proposing the creation of 108,000 new jobs in the country. We have confirmed calculations from the Ministry of Finance and the Parliamentary Information Service on how these jobs would be created. Of course, this part of the funding of unemployment benefits now under discussion would be a relief as more and more people would get away with it. But with interest, I look forward to that debate next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u21	Let me just say that we shall have this sitting suspended at 1.30 p.m. in any case, and we now have five speeches according to that list, so that I hope they will go away. Otherwise we will have to remove the matter from the 9th list, and then we can continue this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u22	Mr President! Very briefly, freedom of association is an important principle in Finland, freedom guaranteed in the Constitution for all of us. It also means, of course, that you can not unite if you wish. Of course, when you come to these unemployment benefits, that means taking a risk in terms of your own benefits, and in this sense the universal income-related unemployment security offered by the coalition is a truly important reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u23	Congressman Honkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u24	Mr President! We really need to get to know that alternative budget for the convention. Civilization is always in order. I would just like to point out from the earnings-related unemployment benefit system that it is true that it was born in a very different world when the employees and earnings structure of Finnish society were very different. After all, the Centre has been in favour of a general security model since the beginning of the work reform in the late 1990s, but I consider this to be a major reform that would be better as a reform at the level of the government programme, as an agreed reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u25	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation. Congressman Juvonen, please. — So now I say that we have exactly 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u26	Mr President! The purpose of this presentation is to improve the livelihood of a woman in service as a military servant or as a volunteer in military service and their relatives during the service, i.e. to add to the law a specific protective section under which a person can work as a military officer and in performing the service. The government had presented a 200-euro protective component, but the Finns of Peru submitted 300 euros, and it was great that it was also the will of the other members of the committee. So 300 euros will be this protective part, and then it will make it possible to make money for the garrison. I think it is important that the situation of conscripts and persons engaged in voluntary military service be monitored and the law improved so that they can then receive compensation if necessary. In 2017, I made a bill to amend the Military Accidents and Service Diseases Act. After all, the bill went through, and in 2019 it came into force that if the conscript is injured, injured or killed while performing the service, then compensation will be granted to the person close to him as well as to himself if he is seriously injured. This is precisely the kind of change in the law that we need to safeguard the future of young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u27	Thank you. — And Mr Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u28	Mr President! The increase in the safeguard component proposed by the committee to EUR 300 instead of EUR 200 is very welcome and, as the report states, the law has entered into force in 94 and has not since undergone any major changes. Like the committee, I believe it is very important that the effectiveness of military assistance be thoroughly investigated to meet the need for financial assistance for young people currently in service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u29	The plenary session will be suspended for the sake of putting reports on the table and will resume at 1:45 p.m. After a break, there will only be a table of reports on the table, so the plenary and the large committee and the Committee on Intelligence will be able to meet at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u30	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 1.26 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-26-ps-141.u31	The 24th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 30 November 2021. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the fourth draft amending budget: The debate will begin at the plenary session on Tuesday 30 November 2021 at 2 p.m., with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The amendments must be submitted to the central office no later than 2 p.m. on Monday 29 November 2021. The relevant votes will take place on Wednesday, 1 December 2021. To the extent that no amendments to the fourth amending budget have been proposed, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
