ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I now call on the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. Ladies and gentlemen, please. In order to include as many questions as possible in Question Time, it is desirable that the question should cover only one question at a time, which is addressed to one minister. The length of the speeches shall be 1 minute. In the light of the intermediate calls, I would ask you to note that they do not interfere with the actual debate. — Then let's go to Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u2	Congressman Kotiaho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u3	Mr President! We Finns are presenting substantial tax reductions in fuel prices. In particular, this would make it easier for pensioners, low-income and middle-income employees and, above all, families with children to have a daily life. Instead, the Finnish Government, the most ambitious climate-distortion government in the world, is eager to take action that is of no use to the climate, but which is a significant disadvantage both to the one thing that the government should defend, namely our country and its inhabitants. No other party, apart from the Finns, talks about the costs, the whole and the concrete consequences of these activities. When are you going to lower the cost of living and driving?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u4	Minister Lintila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u5	Mr President! The questioner is asking here about fuel prices and the price of driving at the moment. It is true that fuel prices are currently very high.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u8	Now that we have these masks in place at the moment and that makes it difficult to hear people on television viewers too, I would ask that we keep the noise as low as possible here, the other level of sound when we are answered or asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u9	Mr President! You will not escape the fact that your policies will increase the cost of living and driving, the competitiveness of companies will decline and consumer prices will increase as logistics costs go to prices. This is not what is happening in the case of fundamental Finnish politics, but as driving is cheaper, more money is left in people's wallets to live in and more money is left for companies to work. It's very simple. We would finance tax reductions by cutting back on secondary and harmful issues such as immigration and development aid. Why are these not acceptable to you, Minister Harakka? Why do you want to take more out of people's wallets?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u10	Minister of Finance Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u11	Mr President! I share the concern of the Finns that many citizens have to do with the cost of living. Low income and poverty are also true in Finland, which is why this government has invested, for example, in raising smaller pensions. The same applies to child supplements, for example, in the families of one parent. Your presentation on the price of gas and its tax reduction is a You will find here that you are taking it away from something harmful. When you make such a big political opening and certainly seek the support of the people, it would be reasonable, at the very least, for you to be able to specify where that money would actually be taken from. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u12	Congressman Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u13	Mr President! Let us remember the budgetary negotiations in the autumn. The government was captured by green ambition and a reservation for new climate measures was included in the papers in the spring. Surprise, surprise: these new activities, such as national emissions trading, will be told to Finns only after the regional elections. [Base Finns Group :Oh! ] This coercive action will increase the price of fuels to such an extent that the consumer will run out of money. The new Minister for the Environment has already proudly reported this: 72 cents for petrol and 52 cents for diesel per litre.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u14	Minister Kari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u15	Mr President! All of us here share the concern about the survival of low-income Finns, and the government has taken a number of steps to achieve this. At the beginning, the representative expressed concern as to whether this country and the future of this country will be defended here. It is precisely because we are doing climate action at the same time as we are taking care of people with low incomes that we are defending this country, [RiikkaPurran intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u16	Mr Harkimo, you have considered a question in the same whole. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u17	Thank you, Mr President. As fuel prices and energy prices rise, inflation increases and, at some point, interest rises. When people cannot afford to spend on anything other than these things, economic growth will fade away and employment will no longer improve. So we're driving into the economy. Does this not concern you, Minister Saarikko?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u18	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u19	Mr President! As I said, yes, we are concerned about the daily lives of low-income Finns and the social justice of this society, and that is why the Government's programme and therefore the citizens' wallet shows many decisions that have been positive. One part of this has been those many subsidies for both households and businesses during the interest rate period. Finally, I would like to say that a major political opening, particularly from the perspective of the Finns-based, from a significant reduction in taxes on electricity and fuel taxes, is a bill of a billion-dollar amount. The same party is constantly concerned about Finland's state finances, and now you are not telling us where this money would be taken from. I would like to emphasise that, for example, the price of electricity in Finland is still the lowest throughout Europe, and this government has taken measures that have curbed the rise in electricity prices. In the case of households, for example, electricity transmission prices have been curbed so,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u20	Time. — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u21	Honorable Speaker! As part of the EU climate package, the Commission has proposed, among other things, to extend emissions trading to transport and heating – emissions trading revenues would go to the EU's common treasury. I have not seen any calculations made as to how much the proposal would increase fuel or heating prices. In the same context, a carbon duty mechanism has also been proposed for electricity. This would apply to electricity imported from Russia. The price tag for this proposal is estimated at around 400 million. Industry and households would pay the bill for the increased price of electricity. I ask the government: will you support or oppose these proposals in future negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u22	Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u23	Mr President! This climate package, the so-called Fit for 55 package, is a wide-ranging package and contains several elements. As far as the expansion of emissions trading is concerned, it definitely makes more sense for us to act at European level. This will enable us to ensure that each Member State makes its own contribution to joint climate decisions. So, yes, by developing emissions trading in principle, things are worth doing. In the past, Finland has explicitly supported emission reductions through emissions trading because they are effective and are relatively balanced towards the Member States. As far as these other proposals for the package are concerned, these are, of course, dealt with by the government and have also been submitted to Parliament by these positions, and now the parliamentary committees themselves form these positions. Finland has considered it important to reduce emissions in the EU. We have been in favour of an ambitious EU climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u24	Congressman Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u25	Mr President! A year ago, you raised the fuel tax with the biggest increase in the 21st century, and it is now visible in the tank. The logger fueled Lope Shell in Hiluxia, and close to EUR 2 was the price per litre: more than EUR 100. The low-income and low-income people would, according to your compensation model, receive some kind of support. In October, 28.10., last year at Yle’s A-studio this compensation model was discussed, and Minister of Transport Timo Harakka, you were involved in the debate. You replied when you asked what it would mean for low incomes and land dwellers to have some relief, a direct quote: “Bank account presentation of money.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u28	Thank you. — Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u29	Mr President! Excellent that the representative Mr Heinonen raised this argument, which Mr Antikainen has also spread in the media. [SannaAntikainen requests reply ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u32	— — — — Congressman Vestman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u33	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, the left-wing government is allowing the introduction of a new employment tax, a toll. Toll would undermine incentives for hard work and reduce employment and the vitality of urban areas. According to a survey of the spending limits municipalities of Uusimaa, tolls would particularly penalise low- and middle-income workers and service industry entrepreneurs. According to experts, even the values of dwellings could be reduced. You can't save the climate if you're driving. A year ago, Minister of Transport Harakka acknowledged during Question Time: ‘The use of congestion charges in the Helsinki region in practice would lead to anextremely low emission Minister of Finance Saarikko, are you really going to move forward with the Toll Act, which would allow Finnish workers and entrepreneurs to be punished for their hard work and not even reduce emissions?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u34	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u35	Mr President! This report on congestion charges is under way at the Ministry of Finance, but it is worth noting that if such a decision were to be put into effect — that is not the decision of the government — it would be up to the municipalities, such as Helsinki, led by the party you represent, to decide whether or not this congestion charge should be introduced. No, that has not been the decision of the government, for example, on the residents of the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u36	Congressman Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u37	Mr President! It is quite right, as the Minister has said here, that the world market price has certainly risen with crude oil, but in 2020 the government took a decision on tax increases, which will lead us to a price of EUR 250 million for transport fuels for the coming year. The Christian Democrats in their own alternative budget are dismantling this government tax increase. That increase was made in a very different situation at the time. At the moment, prices are rising in the world and we are experiencing an increase in inflation. Would it not be reasonable for the government to re-evaluate this policy, which concerns both transport fuels and heating fuels? At the moment, all of this disciplines ordinary Finns who live in rural areas, in sparsely populated areas, and travels by car. Our transport companies and over-the-counter transport are also at risk because of the irresponsible policy of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u38	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u39	Mr President! Mr Essayah's assessment that a large country, Finland and people across the country deserve a fair policy and drivers should not be disciplined for the kind of everyday life in which the use of a car is necessary. It is the reality of many Finnish everyday lives. However, I would like to say realistically that these proposals, which have now been made here, relating to the price of petrol and tax increases and the calculation of taxes, would not necessarily be removing the fact that the world market price for oil is now the main reason for the gas tank to increase that price. It is good to see that the increase in government was about 5 to 7 cents in scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u40	Congressman Park, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u41	Mr President! In many respects, tight taxation is problematic. It cuts people's purchasing power, it's an incentive problem for work and entrepreneurship. At the same time, it is also an obstacle to genuine work-related immigration, but instead an incentive for future immigrants to transfer income. With high taxation, everything is also more expensive because taxes and charges in practice shift at least to the price of products and services produced here. Now I ask: when we already have a high tax rate and then there seems to be inflation, should we not think twice about it before more measures are introduced on our own, which increase costs? Now I am referring in particular to the EU's Fit for 55 package, because it has actually come out of doors and windows with various proposals that raise cost prices but which have barely been properly dealt with here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u42	Thank you. — Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u43	Mr President! I am sorry in advance that my list is now a little ‘no’-oriented, but also a representative of the Park and other issues as a further explanation:The Board does not have a decision on national traffic The government is no longer raising fuel taxes in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u44	I would ask you to remember that we are wearing masks, that it is difficult for people to hear the answers on television, so let us be as quiet as possible when asked. — Mr Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u45	Mr President! Now it seems that the Finns have made a mistake. Social and health services are decided in regional elections; [Base Finns Group :Thisoneduskunta!] Indeed, the cost of driving has increased worryingly and, of course, is the biggest problem for those who have to drive a lot, especially in rural areas and regions with long distances. There are more than 2 million passenger cars in Finland, and indeed the situation is serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u46	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u47	Mr President! The questioner raises two important points: Firstly, the fact that long distance travel in a country must continue to be possible regardless of income. Driving — and related justice — in a situation where it is necessary for people, must continue to be possible. But the second fact is that, as I assume there are several of you here who are also concerned about the state economy, when the content of transport changes and electrifies and alternatives to existing petrol and diesel cars become available, our revenue to the state will be significantly reduced, as the representative said. It is therefore necessary to work together now to consider what will be the way in which the revenue from transport will be collected into the common fund. The example mentioned by the representative seems to me to be a worthy option, and the same proposals are now being considered in the road maps of future energy taxation, and these ideas are necessary if and when our well-being is based on:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u48	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u49	Mr President! This recent increase in prices, as Minister Lintilä said, is due to the world market price, but it must now be acknowledged by the government that this previous increase in fuel tax is extremely badly hit by this situation. This is also a very serious matter from the point of view of whether people should work longer — whether it is worth tens of kilometres to go on low-paid or even average-paid jobs when costs increase. And when you add this model of Minister Haraka, the all-time incentive trap, where, for example, the unemployed in rural areas receive compensation, but the low-paid person in rural areas who works tens of kilometres away does not get paid, this is certainly an incentive trap that has a serious effect on employment. My question is: will you at least ensure that the reduction in commuting is increased in proportion to the increase in fuel costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u50	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u51	Mr President! The Government's decision to increase the gas and diesel tax is over a year away, and these discussions about the increase in the price of petrol have now become more acute, especially because of the rise in this world market price, which Mr Satonen has described well here. I agree with you that for a person who needs a car to move to work, it must always be worthwhile to accept work and then it must also be reasonable to move to work. I agree with that view. I consider the question to be much more responsible, since neither do you, if I have understood correctly, have you proposed any reductions in gas tax by 25%, as the Finns of Finland do. I still say that if you make such a big political opening, it is responsible to tell you what it is going to be financed for, this billion-dollar proposal, which is based essentially on the price of oil on the world market, for which the Finnish Government unfortunately cannot do anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u52	Congressman Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u53	Mr President! We must be concerned about the cost of living our citizens, and we must remember that during the last term of government, for example, the Finns of Finland raised the tax on petrol and at the same time cut pensions. [Department :Well! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u54	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is important for this debate to take place in such a way that the person who is filling up his car at the moment really is upset and angry about the price of gas. I'm sure no one here will disagree with this arrangement. I believe that we also share the view that politics must be fair,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u56	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u57	Mr President! In the midst of these assurances, however, it must be pointed out that the government has increased the fuel tax. I often get feedback from people who feel very often that this debate is moving away from everyday life: there in everyday life the costs will rise, but then there will be other assurances. I would like to ask you about the assurance and consensus that in a country where long distances are necessary, where driving is necessary, we need to take care of people's opportunities to move around everyday life to work and hobbies and so on, and at the same time there are all the arguments — and I believe that there is agreement — to make solutions to reduce emissions, I would like to ask them concrete solutions: how is this equation possible so that people can still move around, yet we can make these solutions in a realistic way? The problem with this as a whole, which Parliament is dealing with in relation to the EU climate package, is that we have totally inadequate impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u58	Time. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u59	Mr President! The Minister for European Affairs may be able to answer more precisely what our influence is in the wider EU, but the accession of Finland as a whole to the EU is strongly linked to the fact that the special circumstances of our country have been taken into account in the Accession Treaty, be it regional development funds or, for example, agriculture and the conditions for its implementation. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, I understand that this situation is putting pressure on the House now to say that the government has been sorry about these fuel tax solutions,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u60	Exceptionally, in this situation, I will give the floor to the Minister for European Affairs — one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u61	Thank you, Mr President. It is very important that Finland plays an active and timely role and that the EU report, on which we also have a report from a large committee, contains the clear steps towards Finland's influence. Above all, we have an influence on the Commission, which is making proposals, we have an influence on the Presidency in question and then on the various groups of countries in which the matter is dealt with. Finland will find partners of the same mind. We already have a special position in connection with the accession phase in Finland, where it has been verified that we are a northern, sparsely populated country of long distances, and, in the light of this special status, we have, among other things, managed to negotiate the special funding of EUR 100 million under Prime Minister Marin's leadership in the context of the multiannual financial framework that has now been launched. It is an important recognition when the special conditions of Finland’s northern regions, long distances and sparsely populated countries have been recognised, and we will continue to work for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u62	Thank you. — Mr Brushanne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u63	Mr President! It sounds like we have once again underestimated the need for climate action and perhaps exaggerated its costs. Once again, I have to say that there is no alternative to not doing so. It is the most expensive, and the economists know it, the industry knows it, and the government knows it, but it feels that the opposition has still not understood it. It has been well discussed here, even if the climate is not of interest, that this price increase is not so much due to taxes but to the world market price, and yet a policy is proposed that deepens and prolongs dependence on imported fossil energy. I think it's irresponsible. [Right :Hands would have been domestic!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u64	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u65	Mr President! Mr Harjante's question was very good and the floor was very good. Recognizing the facts is the beginning of wisdom, and the fact is that climate change is the most serious threat to mankind, [Juha Mäenpää’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u66	Let me give you one last answer to this question. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u67	Mr President! As we know, the government wants to promote the most ambitious climate policy in the world, and that means, among other things, that it wants to be carbon neutral in 2035, which is much earlier than, for example, the European Union or our main competitor, and this will not be free of charge, this will entail considerable costs. If we look at the public finance plan and there meets carbon-neutral Finland in 2035, the money earmarked for it is multiple compared to what this 25% tax reduction proposed by the Finns on electricity and transport fuels would cost. This is a value choice: first Finnish or world improvement? The previous speeches from the Prime Minister and Mr Harjante were quite good, but unfortunately I would like to point out that with these measures you will not improve the global climate. And this was also an answer to the Minister for Finance, Saariko, although it is of course a question hour for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u68	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u69	Mr President! Although it is a government Question Time, I dare say that the answer was not satisfactory, Mr Purra. First of all, I would like to say one more thing about these previous decisions by the government: we are not raising the gas tax, [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u70	Congressman Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u71	Mr President! Tight taxation of labour is the main problem of the tax system. It erodes people’s incentives to work and reduces their income far too much at the moment. However, the Government is preparing a new regional tax in Finland. As a result, a smaller proportion of the income of employees, entrepreneurs and pensioners is left in their own pocket. The Coalition Party does not accept county tax. The Prime Minister's Party (SDP) has declared its support for the tax in its regional election programme. But now the leadership of the party seems to have changed its position. Matias Mäkynen, Vice-President of the SDP, has stated that he does not believe that the regional tax will proceed during this term of government. Antti Lindtman, President of the Parliamentary Group, stated on the tax: ‘As long as no viable model exists, no aid can be granted. “ In regional elections, the electorate has the right to know what the government intends to do with the tax, as it now seems that the government parties are divided in this. I'm going to ask the Prime Minister if there's a government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u72	Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u73	Mr President! I think that both Vice-President Mäkysen and Group President Lindtman have been very wise. It is true that until there is a proposal that is feasible, before that tax can be introduced. Here's the thing. Similarly, we have agreed that this tax package will be prepared, but such a proposal is not yet on the board of the government. In the Ministry of Finance, this work is done in a manner agreed by the government parties, but it must also be recognised and recognised that there is a certain amount of government term left and that this is a difficult and large entity which must also be carefully prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u74	Thank you. — Now I ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u75	Mr. Speaker! Our welfare services are paid out with tax resources from work. In order to continue to secure the financing of the welfare society, the incentives to work must be taken care of. The vast majority of Finns are not in favour of a regional tax that discourages incentives to work. The experts are also on the same page. The Regional Tax Committee did not support the introduction of regional tax. According to experts, the new tax level would increase the pressure to increase the tax burden on labour and increase the overall tax rate. The Government says that its work is based on informed decision-making – at least in solemn speeches. However, as far as regional taxes are concerned, the facts seem to be overshadowed by ideology. So I ask the Prime Minister: why, in this case, did you not believe the country's best tax experts, decide to put this committee's report in a shredder, and you made the exact opposite decision?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u76	Thank you. — Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u82	Thank you. — Mr Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u83	Mr President! This is a strange thing to do when the government seems to be arguing within the same party and making conflicting comments. Indeed, the SDP's recent regional election programme states that raising funds to finance services as close as possible would increase the responsibility of regional councillors to voters and create incentives for efficient and sparing spending and for the implementation of such a financing model, the most feasible model so far is the creation of a new regional tax. And now it is said that it has not been clarified and that it may not be possible to find such a model. Well, Minister of Finance Saarikko, you need to know these things better, and I wonder if you see the risk that a regional tax would lead to an increase in the overall tax rate where the municipal tax is, in fact, the highest, in the ageing regions where the tax base is difficult to finance — if it had any significant contribution to the overall financing. How about this? And what do you think, Minister of Finance Saarikko, would be the best way to prevent this declining regions — a high tax base even further — from being able to cope with the economic crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u84	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u85	Mr President! The best way to increase tax revenues is not new taxes but employment and growth in this country,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u86	Congressman Orphan, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u87	Mr President! I do not think anyone seriously believes that if there were to be a third taxable hand, the total tax would not increase. It is quite clear that one hand that seeks more for people’s purse will tax more. Now the problem here is that even here, the government's line does not make any sense: You have made a decision, as the Prime Minister has said, that the county tax will be prepared during this parliamentary term. From the direction of the Left Alliance and the Greens, this will receive strong support. Now it seems that, in fear of regional elections, the Prime Minister's Party at least seems to have turned its coat around, but once we have been told that you are preparing it, we want an unambiguous government line on whether or not you intend to bring this regional tax into the financing base for these welfare areas. Citizens have a right to know this when they think about their voting decisions. Otherwise, I think that if you want to prevent this tax, you should vote for the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u88	Thank you. — Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u89	Mr President! The regional councils do not decide on regional taxes, which means, in so far as the invitations to vote for the forthcoming regional elections are concerned, it is good to recognise, in the interests of honesty, that these matters are not decided there. Of course, in the parliamentary elections you can vote for the parties you want, and in this Chamber these motions will be dealt with. The Government parties have agreed that this package will be prepared, and now this preparatory work will be carried out at the Ministry of Finance and this package will be clarified. If a model could be put in place that would be appropriate and effective, which would respond to these marginal conditions that have been imposed jointly by the government parties, then we will bring this to Parliament, but, as has been said, the preparation and study are still at a stage and the Ministry of Finance is very careful to do this work. I personally think it is important that these future councils should have the opportunity to decide both on services and to decide as much as possible on the content of the funding for the provision of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u90	This same issue has also been asked by the Christian group. — Mr Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u94	Prime Minister Marin, please. — Excuse me, Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u95	Mr President! It is good, Mr Östman, that you reminded us of this parliamentary work. I have been pleased with many parliamentary preparations, because it is important that the big social issues, the impact of which extends beyond the parliamentary term, are considered among several parties, beyond the boundaries of government and opposition. Just as you described, this group did not end up in favour of a regional tax. I repeat my reply: an equation in which we would manage to create a tax model that would ensure that the overall tax rate does not rise, that is, that we would not collect more taxes just because of a new tax level, a model in which we would at the same time be able to agree politically that the welfare region, the province, would also have the capacity to build up growth, i.e. tasks that could ensure that tax revenue is generated more, and a model that the regions to which the decision-makers are now being elected would be able to use immediately in the midst of all this pressure for change in the parliamentary term at this stage, I do not think it is likely. But the commitment to the study will be carried out
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u96	Thank you. — Mr Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u97	Mr. Speaker! On behalf of the Finns, we must be surprised that if that political jargon that Minister Saarikko and Prime Minister Marin were to grind into money somehow, then we would be very rich and could afford services, but this is not exactly realism. After all, the financing model should have been decided before this social welfare reform is forced through.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u98	Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u99	Mr President! In the previous question, you promised our citizens a billion dollars in tax on gas taxes without you being able to tell us where this money will be taken from. Perhaps, however, it would be good to have this debate on a realistic basis. As far as this funding for regions, future social welfare areas, these welfare areas is concerned, this has been agreed upon in the context of the social welfare reform. Yes, these well-being areas have funding — which has been agreed and decided upon — when the well-being areas begin their work. Then there is a separate question as to what will be decided in the future in relation to this regional tax, which will be investigated by the Ministry of Finance, but I think it is a good thing that this matter is properly clarified, it will be carefully prepared. The government has set its own framework conditions for this, including that the overall tax rate should not increase. Now we're going through this whole thing at the Ministry of Finance, and if there's a working model like that,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u100	Congressman Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u101	Mr President! The Finns of Peru were also on this committee, and we were against the county tax. The idea of regional taxation was the government's way of bringing the social welfare reform to the finish line. As if that funding were in order, you promised a county tax on donkey night. In reality, Finland uses less funding and money from other Nordic countries for health care. I would therefore ask you: how is this possible, and what will be done about this problem? Here in Uusimaa it has been estimated that in 2029 230 million less money would be available than last year, and especially in Uusimaa this social welfare reform will be damaging. The reduction that will take place is about EUR 400 million. I would like to ask you: how did this go? It was not the intention of the social welfare reform that the economy was stalling in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u102	Thank you. - Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u103	Mr President! When we talk about welfare services and the financing of welfare services, it is good to recognise that when we talk about public services, they are very much financed by tax resources — tax resources. We have heard here today that we want a billion tax reductions, and then we are opposed to new kinds of taxes that could safeguard these services, but with tax money these common issues are being dealt with, and it is good to be honest in this Chamber too. Of course, the way in which taxation and tax collection can be influenced is also growth and employment policy, that our economic growth is strong, that our employment is strong and that means that we can also get more of those tax euros into the treasury. But I now find it somewhat contradictory that the Finns of Finland present a billion dollars in tax cuts at the same time and at the same time feel that hundreds of millions should be added to the services. There is now a clear contradiction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u104	Thank you. — Then I would like to add another supplementary question to this question. — — — — Congressman Häkkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u105	Mr President! The Coalition Party has opposed the provincial tax on the grounds that it effectively tightens the taxation of labour, the taxation of pensioners and the taxation of entrepreneurs. People have less purchasing power, less money in their hands. That is why we have resisted. The SDP and the centre have bullheadedly pushed this county tax forward during this parliamentary term and the centre even during the last parliamentary term. Now, under the regional elections, the SDP and the centre say that we are not really going to do it. How credible is this? I looked at what you've committed yourself to on the basis of official documents. A notice of this kind has been sent on 13 October2020: ‘The government is committed to the completion of the legislation on taxation during the government’s term of Now, Prime Minister Marin, when you sometimes don't get a clear answer, I ask: Are you committed to this entry? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u106	Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u107	Mr President! As I have said several times during this Question Time, yes, the government is preparing this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u109	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u110	Mr President! Firstly, this funding for social and health services: You're the one who's talking about things of the right scale. This is a matter of about 20 billion for taxpayers. In any case, we will be spending more money on social services in the future — referring to Mr Juvosen’s question — because there is a greater need. And what does the distribution of money to different parts of Finland involve as a financing base for welfare areas? It has to do with the fact that the government believes it is right that more funding should also be allocated where there are longer distances and more disease. That is also justice, as has been said in this Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u113	The following three questions concern the same issue and there are three different groups. Let's go on the question-answer principle. — Mr Forsgrén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u114	Mr President! Today is the day against violence against women. Violence against women is a persistent national disgrace. Technological developments change the way violence is done and give new opportunities to follow what someone else does, to hurt and humiliate. Digital violence and harassment can be expressed, for example, as online naming, embarrassing, persecution and sexual harassment, or as control of interaction. Studies show that the younger women are the more common the experiences of sexual harassment experienced online. It is the duty of the State to dismantle structures that sustain violence, to protect victims of violence and to provide support. The key to protecting victims of violence is legislation. GREVIO, the guardian of the Istanbul Convention, has just issued the first general recommendation in its history on the digital dimension of violence against women. Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u115	Secretary Henrikson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u116	Mr President! It's a very important question. — — — — Finnish women experience more violence than women in the EU on average. This is something that we must take very seriously and that is why the government has also taken a number of measures. It is quite true, as Mr Forsgrén points out, that the transfer of people's interaction to the Internet also affects this, and it must be understood that online harassment and violence can be as serious and as offensive as acts in the face. The new recommendations of GREVIO, to which the representative refers, came yesterday, so that today the officials in the Ministry of Justice have not yet given me the answers to the timetable for taking action, but quite clearly,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u117	Congressman Semi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u118	Mr President! Indeed, today is the day against violence against women. A home that should be the safest place in the world for everyone is distressing and frightening for many women in Finland. One in three women in Finland has experienced partner violence with either their current or former partner. This is a major human rights problem. Everyone has the right to live their own lives without fear. Combating violence against women requires in-depth reflection on causes, educational work and a better service system. Fortunately, it has been possible to increase the number of shelters in recent years, but they still have insufficient customer seats. Let me ask you something. How do we get the service system, such as shelters, to meet the need and secure assistance in good time? How do we guarantee that everyone will get help regardless of where they live?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u119	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u120	Mr President! I think it is very important that we discuss how violence against women can be prevented and how it can be helped in a situation where a person has become a victim of violence. We are a black spot on a European map, and it is therefore important that this is also discussed in the national Parliament. There are a few clear answers to this question. One is the transfer of responsibility to the state. It has made it more effective that we now have funding available. Since 2016, the level of funding has in practice increased from 11.55 million to a record opportunity this year to spend 25.55 million on the expansion of the shelter network. As the representative has said, we have received the number of shelters from 19 to 29 shelters, and in practice at the end of this year we already have 30 shelters and the number of places will rise to 231 for family places.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u122	Irade the Talman! This week, Nadia Murad, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, was visiting Finland. He has worked especially to help women and victims of the war who suffered sexual violence. Situation In Iraq, there is an alarming need both for violence against women and for women's rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u123	Thank you for the very important question to Mr Bergqvist. Indeed, when we listened to Nadia Murad, there has, above all, been the subject of gross violence, slavery, under the rule of ISIS in Iraq. Perhaps the worst was when Nadia Murad said that violence could continue: not only are there these missing children and women, but also in these internal refugee camps the violence against women continues. He also described the culture of silence that still prevails in Iraq. There is no dare to speak of violence against women, and women who have been subjected to violence may also be discriminated against outside the Community. Of course, in all its activities, Finland takes account of women's rights and we will also bring them up bilaterally with Iraq. I know that within the framework of the UN Population Fund, within the framework of the UNFPA, a new project is beginning to target these most vulnerable — people with disabilities, women — specifically in Iraq, and we are working on this project.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u124	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 60 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u125	Mr President! Fuel prices do indeed speak to the people. It is clear from its own language that there is another citizens' initiative on this same subject that is moving forward with Parliament. This is not a trivial matter, and it must not be underestimated by the government. Although the government asserts that prices cannot be achieved because the world market price of oil has risen, in Finland more than half of the consumer price of petrol consists of taxes. Compared to other countries in Finland, the taxation of petrol is at the highest level. The government is avoiding its responsibility in this matter, because taxes are decided here in Parliament and can be done just as much as the will exists. This is completely incomprehensible. Finland has long distances and a cold northern climate. Cars and motoring are essential in most of Finland so that people can work, take children to hobbies, meet each other or do business. This poor climate policy and taxation destroys the purchasing power of Finns and the profitability of working, and driving can soon become a luxury beyond the reach of more and more Finns. At the same time, the reserve for the unemployed is increasing, the loneliness of the elderly living at home is increasing and the participation of children is decreasing. Even the mobility of residents in nature is reduced, as the forest usually takes its own car. Is this really what the government wants? Should we not really prioritise and listen to the Finns? Mr President! I still remember getting myself my first car when I was 18. It was an old, very cheap Toyota Carina, who consumed relatively much fuel but enabled work and hobbies. While I was studying and in the summer, I was able to clean up for a living, thanks to the car. The destinations were all over Oulu, where the distances are tens of kilometres, and there public transport does not serve in the same way as, for example, here in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. A friend of mine worked for the same cleaning company, but it was impossible for him to work because he, without a car, had to refuse many of the items offered, which he simply did not get or had no time to ride. This is quite commonplace for many Finns: working requires a car. Especially in the provinces, the situation is highlighted, and people are certainly not moving south into public transport after work, leaving behind a family, a home, a family, and their roots just because fuel prices are skyrocketing. The work done in rural areas — the forestry industry, food production, agriculture and so on — actually provides for cities. These rural areas keep Finland's wheels rolling, Mr. Government. People in the provinces do important work in many different areas, but more and more people are already calculating whether it is worth it. Indeed, not all people should even move to cities, because even in rural areas there is a need for workers. This is probably part of the government's fair transition: Finland and the Finnish way of life are getting miserable, and Finns are moving from work to cards and from people to their own homes. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the initiators of the initiative and all those who have signed more than 100,000 initiatives. This is indeed a flaw that needs to be rectified quickly. I also expect a consensus from the Parliament on the initiative, because every representative who has discussed this issue with people around Finland at all times recognises and recognises this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u126	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u127	Mr President! A Finnish motorist pays vehicle tax, insurance premiums, survey and repair costs and the second most expensive petrol in the EU. Private car use takes an unreasonably large part of household income, as a bicycle does not replace a car and public transport is not a genuine alternative outside Ring 3. The weather conditions and, for example, the mobility needs of older people must continue to be taken into account. Families need a car to carry children for hobbies, since we have the longest distances from European countries. According to a recent study by TNS Gallup, over 60 per cent of women and nearly 70 per cent of workers reported that they are not prepared to pay even EUR 50 per year for housing and motoring in order to combat climate change. The government is completely alienated from the normal everyday life of people when we see what decisions they are making as their number one project, that is, because of the green transition. The situation is already so critical that Finnish homes are actually wondering whether to go to a grocery store or whether to fill a car. Is this the fair green transition of the government? In the low-wage sectors, people will soon be left at home with subsidies as business travel increases. The fact that there is not enough money to live and work is alarming. Cars need a gas rebellion, not an Elo rebellion, because as long as the majority of Finns cannot afford a new and low-emission car, the fuel tax cannot be increased. On the contrary, efforts must be made to reduce the cost of driving. This initiative is the clearest possible signal that motorists are in full measure. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have taken the initiative and those who have signed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u128	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u129	Mr President! I would like to warmly thank the authors of this citizens' initiative. I think that citizens' initiatives are always valuable, and it is important for democracy that people in Finnish society are active and bring their own concerns to us here in Parliament. So let me say that it is clear that this initiative will also receive due consideration in Parliament. I understand that this will probably come to us in the tax section, and then, of course, we will be hearing experts on the matter and taking a position there. That is perhaps what I am going to tell you about the situation in the tax section, that we now have all the tax laws in the first budget there, which means that in practice we will be able to consult on this matter at the beginning of next year, for this period we will have these budget laws in place. But, as I said, the proper treatment certainly comes and the matter is important. I well understand this concern of people about everyday life, its smoothness and its costs. There was a great deal of discussion in Question Time about the very problem of the cost of living, for example, and the question of the price of petrol was on the agenda. That certainly gave us a great deal of start to this debate, a lot of arguments, and we also received information from the government, which is their policy on these issues in general. I welcome the fact that we are thinking of the future and future generations by encouraging a fair transition, mainly through certain forms of support measures. It was also important to hear the line that the government has already said, of course, that it will by no means increase the gas tax. After all, as a Parliament, we have often said that when we look at this whole energy and transport tax package, a huge package that is going to change all the time, we must take into account the fact that we are friends of the environment, that we take account of justice and regional equality. These are very important questions because, of course, we must be aware that not everyone has the chance to stop driving or then get as little emissions as possible. But I believe, on the other hand, that with these incentives and with the world view, we will be able to see in the future quite soon to move on to a different type of vehicle. That is why it is very important for these issues to be discussed here in Parliament, this time too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u130	Thank you. — Representative Antikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u131	Thank you, Mr President. The economy of Finnish motorists has been disciplined by record high prices of transport fuels throughout the autumn, and there is no relief in sight. In some places, pump prices up to EUR 2 make it more difficult for people in sparsely populated areas to move when no other forms of mobility are available. This government’s policy of misery is driving Finnish households into endless distress, where people who use cars for business trips will soon not be able to afford to work because of the price of fuel. The Finnish car fleet will not be renewable by exporting the last money of motorists in the form of fuel taxes. You would think the government would understand that Finns do not drive old cars for their own pleasure, but because they simply cannot afford anything else. The dramatic rise in crude oil prices combined with last year's fuel tax increase has created a situation in which an increasing share of the household's disposable income is draining into the car's tank while reducing other consumption. The rise in energy prices undermines the purchasing power of Finns and destabilises the conditions of our people, while the government tries to collect points with an absurd climate policy that offers ordinary citizens nothing but stick and harmful taxes. At this stage, it must also be said that it is now pointless for the government to preach about climate change – namely, the sticks and the harmful tax are so radical, because Finland wants to be carbon neutral in 2035 when the EU's target is 2050. Why on earth do we have to set such tight targets, while Finland also accounts for 0.15% of greenhouse gas emissions from transport in the world? The government, and especially the Greens, take some sense. Even if Finns continue to walk on foot and the last one here turns off the lights, the world will not be saved. Mr President! The purpose of this citizens' initiative is to send a message to Parliament that the costs of motorists for mobility have increased to an unsustainable level. The authors of the initiative suggest that Parliament takes urgent action to bring taxes and other legal costs affecting the price of petrol and diesel down to a lower level. If the taxation of transport fuels is considered by international standards, taxation is very high in Finland. For example, in March 2020 an average of 60-70% of the consumer price of petrol was made up of different taxes, about half of the price of diesel fuel. The Finns have proposed a 25% tax reduction for both electricity and fuel taxes. This would significantly facilitate the everyday lives of Finns and would improve the situation of people living on low incomes and in sparsely populated areas in particular, who wondered whether the money would be sufficient for food and medicine. It may come as a surprise to the city greens that people really need a car just to get food, for example, when there is no subway, a steering wheel or even a bus and a taxi on the gravel road, a small pensioner simply cannot afford — and otherwise a sick old man cannot walk or cycle to the store for tens of miles, even though the government’s new Environment Minister, Kari, praised how the government has invested in walking and cycling. Mr President! Last year, Minister of Transport and Communications Timo Harakka suggested that the increase in the price of fossil fuels should be compensated for low incomes if an internal combustion engine was to be used. The Minister who visited the A-Studio then promised — strictly quoted — that ‘money will appear on the account’ but that money had appeared on the account,the prices of fuels have been reduced from the hands. I would like to ask Minister Haraka if he is here now if he could tell us when the money he has promised is coming into the accounts of people with low incomes. Because they've been waiting for years. It's a matter of urgency. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u132	Thank you. — And Mr Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u133	Mr President! Fuel prices are too high, as has been said many times today, but the facts still need to be recognised when this important issue is discussed. Of course, we know that the recent sharp rise in gas and diesel prices is due to a significant increase in the world oil market price. It's not the tax increases. The price of crude oil has more than quadrupled from last year's lowest readings. Unfortunately, this has been seen and can be seen in Finland with a gas pump. The most important thing would be to lower the world market price. If you want to see something positive in this situation at the moment, it is to be expected that the world market price will stabilise and go down clearly next spring. This is the case in the derivatives market where the market priced its expectations. I fully agree with this citizens' initiative that the cost of driving has grown too high. Similarly, I consider it worthwhile to raise the issue of the initiative that even if Finns continue to walk on foot, our impact on the world's transport emissions would be non-existent. We therefore believe that climate reasons are not a sustainable argument for fuel tax increases. This is good text. I would like to say that the government has not done and is not doing tax increases on motor fuels for climate reasons. More than a year ago an index increase was made for fuels in line with the rise in consumer prices, which was agreed in the Government Programme 2019 and actually entered into force at the beginning of August 2020. The current, much higher price increases, as has already been said, are due to the world market price, unfortunately. The previous government, in which the Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland were involved, also had to increase the taxation of fuels. Even then, it was about an increase in the consumer price index. Surely no one loves or hopes these tax increases, but this increase in government terms is primarily due to the fact that it is a cent tax rather than a percentage tax. If it were a percentage tax, then the tax would be even more difficult, as it could swing violently along with the world market price. In practice, each parliamentary term has been subject to an increase in fuel taxes, because they are indeed such taxes in cents. Unless they are raised, their real value in relation to other prices will fall. Every season the average tax has been raised by 5 cents, and this increase, which was now made, was between 6 and 7 cents. I do not think there is any need for tax increases at all and there is no need for national emissions trading. Various studies and road maps have been carried out to reduce emissions from transport, but it should be noted that the government has stated several times and very clearly that it will not make tax increases in fuels, and this must be taken care of both during this government term and during the next government term, because we have now seen — and of course it has been seen in places and at times — how these world market prices will further increase the cost of travelling here in Finland, where indeed, in many places, there is no clear car. The central line is that the car must also be able to drive with a clean conscience, that it does not have to feel guilty. Public transport should be encouraged where possible. The present and near future car fleet will gradually become more climate-friendly. We can contribute to this by increasing the amount of biofuels, in particular the availability of biogas, as has been done this period. There are other ways, but they must all be implemented in such a way that they do not increase the cost of driving but rather lower the cost of driving. That is where this citizens' initiative is on the right track to draw attention to this important issue, and I thank all those who have signed it and those who have implemented it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u134	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u135	Mr President! First of all, I would also like to thank the active citizens who are bringing this matter to the House, which is important to them, and in that sense I hope that, on the tax side, the matter will then receive a proper and, as I believe it will, lead to the report. Traveling in rural areas is currently a challenge for commuters because of the lack of public transport, but in this context I cannot help but point out that our kilometric compensation system may be from the previous millennium, not quite in size, but almost in scale. After seven and a half hundred euros, we can deduct 25 cents per kilometre from the use of our own car in taxation, up to 7000 euros. I can tell you that when people go from Rovaniemi to Kittilä in the Great Six — in one direction, 150 km — the EUR 7000 limit is met quite quickly. Our legislation has been amended so that one more 30 km has been added to the working area, but this system of kilometric compensation has not lived in that same period. Now, on the basis of this citizens' initiative, it would be good to have at least a debate on whether we working people who have to use their own car should make some arrangements, for example, to start rewarding those who give up their own car and take a car ride. It is done, and everyone writes tax deductions when you go to Helsinki for gigs. Everyone knows how to make them, but let's give them a little incentive in the other direction. For whoever rides, the two cents per person will be there, but also for the one who gives up using his own car and makes his own contribution to climate action, when he is not driving himself, he should get his share of that tax benefit. That would encourage more carpools, but there would also be a carrot for those who give up using their own car. In any case, Mr President, I think it is important that we should now be able to hold the debate on the basis of this citizens' initiative that, when public transport is as weak as it is, we should see tax relief for kilometric payments within and outside the working areas. It is not a climate action, but if we want to reduce the problems of encounters in the labour market, one way is by maintaining the incentive to go beyond daily commuting. If a home is now in Nikkila, for example, if a job comes from a car factory in New Town, it is not public enough to go there, or if you go elsewhere to work, so it is quite clear in urban areas that it is important to maintain the attractiveness of receiving the job, and this is one part of it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u136	Thank you. — Mr Koskela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u137	Mr President! Thank you to the people behind the citizens' initiative under discussion and to all the signatories. The initiative raised over 100,000 supporters in a short time. This is a strong signal to decision-makers that the cost of driving is currently far too high. Finland is a country of long distances where a car is a necessity for a large part of the population. Motoring has been one of the most secure sources of tax revenue for the state. However, the tax screws cannot be tightened indefinitely. The impact of the increase in the cost of driving on work and entrepreneurship and on people's leisure time are now far too great, and it seems that they are becoming more and more expensive. We therefore want to tax motoring in the name of the fight against climate change. There is a desire to electrify our car fleet and it is hoped that fuel taxes will lead consumers to switch the internal combustion engine to an electric car. According to the fossil - free road map, in 2030 there should be up to 700,000 electric cars in Finland. Let's think about this for a second. There are currently about 15,000 electric cars in traffic. Finns drive an average of EUR 3,600 in passenger cars. The average price of an electric car is over EUR 50000. With what money should Finns electrify the car fleet? Even the purchase aid of EUR 2 000 is not sufficient to offset the difference. This equation seems very unrealistic. It is also worth noting that an electric car is not automatically better for the environment than an internal combustion engine, because manufacturing an electric car produces more emissions than manufacturing an internal combustion engine. Just recently, we were able to read a study by Volkswagen that says that the electric car will only be better for the environment after 146,000 kilometres of driving. It is worth noting that the government is pursuing policies aimed at reducing driving: concentration, investments in walking, cycling and public transport. If the electric car is not driven enough, it will be more harmful to the environment than the existing car fleet. Increasing the number of electric cars requires that the number of kilometres to be driven remains high. Instead of electrification, it might be better to allow motorists to purchase less-emission internal combustion cars. Biodiesel cars can be one environmentally friendly option. We know that Neste has placed 100% of the diesel produced from residues and waste on the market, which should be invested in. And we also know that hydrogen cars are more climate-friendly than electric cars. The cost of driving is high, and the pumps have already exceeded the 2 euro pain limit. The development is disappointing, and unfortunately it seems that even worse is going to happen. A new emissions trading scheme for fossil fuels in road transport and buildings is under preparation in the EU, which will significantly increase the price of both housing and mobility. The euro collected from this new emissions trading would be channelled into the EU's own resources system, that is to say, the new emissions trading would also increase the Union's power and also federal development. According to a study by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, possible national emissions trading in road transport could increase pump prices by up to 72 cents for petrol and 52 cents for diesel. Mr President! Whether fuel prices are raised by fuel tax or by new emissions trading is completely irrelevant to the consumer. The price of mobility will rise excessively in this current policy and will in particular vaccinate rural areas and sparsely populated areas. The concern expressed in the citizens' initiative is well founded, and the 50% reduction in excise duty on liquid fuels that it calls for will hopefully also respond to this Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u138	Thank you. — Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u139	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! A citizens' initiative to reduce fuel tax is under discussion. I would also like to thank the drafters and those who have signed the initiative. Over 100,000 signatories have expressed their views on this matter that concerns us all. In Finland, long distances, a car is necessary. It goes to work, takes the child to day care, because we do groceries and it goes to the doctor. It's a means of transport to move around the countryside from place to place. Many elderly people get to move just because they still have their own car. The fuel tax is too high and the price of driving is too high at the moment. It goes back to the government's goal of being the world's first carbon-neutral state by 2035, so that Finland is the world's first carbon-neutral state. This objective is too tight. The citizen's purse is being used to achieve this objective. Increases in fuel tax weaken the survival of people living in remote areas, but also affect businesses and entrepreneurs. The increase in costs in the transport sector is disproportionate and we will certainly all receive a lot of feedback on this. In a country with long distances and sparsely populated areas, a well-functioning road network is a fundamental prerequisite for equal treatment of citizens. However, this road network, which is our national property, is crumbling. The repair debt is large, and even though more than EUR 8 billion of tax is collected on motoring per year, not even 3 will be returned to road maintenance. I can't believe how this feels. Roads are in very dangerous condition, there are places of emergency, and there is a need for new investment in highways, not only in maintenance, but also throughout the country. The message from motorcyclists in particular is serious. Emergency situations are life-threatening out there on your roads, and something should be done about this. I once took the initiative that the local nurse's money should start on two, and that would be right, but the fact that the price of gas starts on two is indeed wrong. A message from citizens all over Finland is that in the morning you have to think about where you go from home so that you don't get that gas used. I am not opposed to electric cars, I consider them to be a very good alternative to those for whom it is possible, but I regret that Finns cannot buy electric cars because of its expensive nature. It has been studied that Finns drive very old cars, and this too is not only a question of money but also of safety in traffic, and it would be desirable that we could also answer these questions and get answers, how to make the Finnish fleet more new and safer and how people could afford to buy these cars. And yes, the price of gas also depends on whether a person buys a car, especially that new car. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u140	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u141	Mr President! Black clouds float over the future of Finnish private motoring. The situation for petrol tanks is already catastrophic in the face of the fuel price crisis of the EUR 2 limit. The aim of the citizens' initiative is to reduce the price of fuels, primarily by changing taxation. Implementing the proposals of this citizens' initiative would be a great relief for Finnish motorists, especially those who cannot afford to buy an expensive electric car. Thank you to the authors of the initiative and thank you also to over 100,000 signatories. The government should listen to the emergency calls of motorists and industry and those in favour of a functioning economy, but the Marin Government's road map for fossil-free transport aims to halve greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 2030. And that is not all: by 2045, the goal is to achieve zero emission levels in transport. With these measures, the countryside is rapidly emptying. In practice, halving emissions within less than 10 years is an extremely tough target, which unfortunately means that the costs of driving will continue to rise, even though they are already at an unsustainable level. The fuel tax represents the most important means of emission control for the government. This government fuel tax whips motorists whenever the government digs up additional euros to finance its red-green policy. Higher prices for cars have a variety of consequences for the mobility of both people and goods. The citizens and the economy suffer. In addition, stricter taxation of fuel increases inequality between people on the basis of postal addresses. This effect is reinforced by the financial difficulties of many municipalities, which drive them to further centralise services. As a result, the average everyday situation is tilted the more remote you live, and that is not fair. Mr President! Instead of disciplining the Finnish motorist and at the same time striking at the back of the money saved by the economy, the government could have at least tried to tackle Finland's extremely adverse EU recovery package, which takes billions of euros of taxpayers' money to southern Europe. While politics is a choice of values, it seems that the government has completely forgotten its responsibility to serve the interests of Finnish taxpayers — and now the interests of motorists, above all. Finland’s share of greenhouse gas emissions from transport is 1.5 per mil throughout the world, so I really hope that there is a sense of proportion to things. Rural areas must be kept alive — services, food production, industry — because this will ultimately be for the benefit of all our citizens — and, indeed, the environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u142	Thank you. — Mr Malm, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u143	Mr President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for their concern about the role of workers in the transformation of the world. We in the SDP share this concern. The measures required by climate change must be done in such a way as to avoid paying for jobs. During this period, the government has increased the taxation of fuels once, which was compensated for by reducing income tax and increasing benefits. This is a practical example of what we mean by socially just climate action. Consumption must be directed towards climate- and environmental-friendly alternatives, to which taxation is an effective tool, but a fair distribution of the financial burden must be promoted by recycling tax revenues back to households as well. In addition, the introduction of ecological alternatives must be supported by the state, as this government has already done, pending a fall in their prices. Mr President! Regrettably, reducing the tax burden on petrol and diesel is neither a sustainable nor a sensible solution to moderate the cost of living for people driving. Professor Esa Vakkkilainen of Lappeenranta University of Technology says that cheap oil has already run out of the world. In time, the cost was a few tens of dollars per barrel, but today the oil is already $100 per barrel. New deposits can only be found in Arctic regions and seas, and drilling is very expensive and dangerous. Thus, according to the official, the oil will not actually run out, but it will inevitably be too expensive to use. Therefore, at this stage, taking more than EUR 1.5 billion from government revenue by reducing fuel tax would not make sense. The oil will continue to increase in any case, so by lowering the price of gas and increasing its consumption, we would support above all the oil sheiks in Saudi Arabia and the nearby districts of Putin, as Minister of Transport Timo Harakka has already pointed out in this Chamber last spring. At some point, the price of oil on the world market would eat this tax bill anyway, and the Finns would be left with only hundreds of millions of euros in the state chest. On the other hand, Mr President, we have other options. For example, the Lappeenranta University of Technology is currently looking for alternatives to internal combustion engine fuels. And I was happy to discover last autumn in Jyväskylä’s Great Times that for the first time there was a full-blooded rally car driven with synthetic fuel without losing power. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u144	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u145	Mr President! The most commentary on Mrs Malmi's speech so that I remember for myself when I was in primary school in the '80s, so even then there was the fear of the end of oil, which was supposed to happen in the next few decades. So there's nothing new about it. [Nina Malmi’s interlude] But this citizens' initiative is a worthy and good opening, and this message, which of these citizens' initiatives comes to Parliament from the price of fuel, must be taken seriously. This is all a symptom of the fact that in Finland we have been made a dairy cow in a very unhealthy and internationally strange way. I do not know whether there is a similar system anywhere else in the world, that there will be 8 billion taxes on transport and that 2 billion will be returned to road maintenance and the rest will be used as cover for the Treasury. I don't know if there's a similar arrangement anywhere else in the world. After all, this situation has been exacerbated in Finland by the fact that these motor vehicle taxation issues have been transferred to emissions, which means that when the state achieves its objective of electrification, the tax base would be lost. In other words, we are in a worse situation than before, when this situation has been achieved over the decades, that Finland is the oldest and most worn-out and cheapest car fleet in the civilized Western world. This has been achieved by the car tax, and now that fuel taxation is being increased, it will result in even greater operating costs. But what should be done about this? During the last Question Time, the government claimed that the fuel price was primarily due to the rising world market prices. Perhaps this is the case — world market prices have undoubtedly risen — but on the other side it is also the case that 70% of the petrol price is made up of different taxes. Of course, that part consists of value added tax, which is levied on all other commodities, but if only these penalties, environmental taxes, the price of petrol, then the pump price would talk a little bit about the price level of a fair euro at the moment if fuel were not taxed separately by penalty taxes. We must remember that, for example, public transport tickets, HSL tickets, half are financed by taxpayers' subsidies, while at the same time 70% of the fuel price is taxed. So this is a pattern right on the top of its head.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u146	Thank you. — Representative Essayah absent. — — — — Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u147	Mr President! We are now dealing with a citizens’ initiative entitled ‘Fueling Tax Lentening’ and we have already asked about this same question during the Question Time withthe help of the Finns of Finland. At the time, I did not receive the floor, so I will ask the floor here. Mr President! I'll tell you about Sam. Sami's an electrician, a single parent, two kids. Because of long commuting and high labour taxation and fuel tax, Sam is left with only 80 euros more working than when he was unemployed — that is, taking fuel costs into account. I would have asked the Minister for Transport what words you could use to encourage Sam to continue working — and now I also refer to the earlier question of when that money will appear in the account. Last year, when the government increased fuel taxation, it was denied and said that it was an index increase, even though it was actually a tax increase. For example, if we take 1974 as the starting year, when the fuel costed 20 cents, and that by the cost of living at the present time, the fuel would have to cost 1 euro and 20 cents. So if it was an index increase, I think it should definitely be calculated now. The government should remain consistent if tax increases begin to disguise as index increases. Mr President! First of all, thank you very much to the people responsible for the initiative Miko Bergbom, Laura Jokela, Ville Muilu, Minna Partanen and Jonni Levanim. This resulted in a staggering of 1,06315 statements of support, and these came almost in the first days. This is an amazing performance. I salute the initiative with a special warmth. As stated in the text presented by the authors of the initiative, it is intended to send a message to Parliament that the costs of driving drivers for mobility have increased to an unsustainable level. The citizens' initiative proposes that Parliament take urgent action to bring taxes and other legal costs affecting the price of petrol and diesel down to a lower level. This initiative is a good illustration of the specific characteristics of our country. Finland is a country of long distances, and for many, a passenger car is the only realistic vehicle for commuting, running everyday life and moving from one place to another. Furthermore, our republic is the least populated of the European Union. Increases in fuel tax always hit people living in remote areas the hardest, which is likely to increase regional inequality. In this connection, I would point out that, especially in Lapland, the local store is not always a few hundred metres away, but can be a few ten kilometres away. Mr President! Pasi Holm, Research Director for Economic Research, said at the beginning of the week that energy prices have risen sharply this year and that prices will remain high in the coming years. It is estimated that next year the price of transport fuels would be up to 20% to 35% higher than in 2021. With drivers already suffering, the state should not make the situation even more difficult. Although Sweden is a bad example in the field of immigration policy, for example, we could now take a model from there. The Swedish Parliament has only just approved the budget proposed by the opposition. This will reduce taxation on transport fuels and earned income. The trend was generally clear: more work and less taxes. Mr President! Low fuel taxation contributes to people’s employment, increases domestic tourism and supports companies’ opportunities for growth. The passing of the citizens' initiative sends a very strong message to Parliament: no more rampages, enough to make motorists miserable. The Centre Party has talked a lot about the provinces, and I am now looking particularly towards my downtown colleagues — although there is not one in this Chamber, which apparently means looking under the table or somewhere else. Do you hear an emergency cry from the provinces? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u148	Thank you. — I would like to point out that there are currently these exceptional rules in this House in relation to this corona situation and I believe that many Members will listen to the debate outside the Chamber in their own office. — Mr Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u149	Mr President! Just as this citizens' initiative states, high fuel prices hit hard on the opportunities of many Finns to work and to survive their daily lives. Therefore, in their alternative budget, the Christian Democrats are proposing a reduction in the fuel and energy tax in a situation where the price of petrol per litre amounts to EUR 2. The government must wake up to the fact that, as many colleagues have pointed out, this affects the most common working people and the low-income people, especially in remote areas. High fuel prices also affect the competitiveness of Finnish industry and the profitability of agriculture and thus food security, because fuels are a large part of the agricultural expenditure structure. And although the government's representatives here say that the government is not going to raise the fuel tax any higher, the fact is that the government, by different means of taxation, has strongly favoured, for example, the growth of electric cars. The abolition of the car tax on electric cars will be a decisive issue for the state funds tomorrow, so it is very topical in that sense. Mr President! It should be remembered that electric cars have many problems, such as the charging infrastructure. High availability of charging and refuelling possibilities are critical for the generalisation of electric cars as well as hydrogen or biogas vehicles. In addition, according to the Finnish Association of Transport Associations, diesel will be in use for transport for decades to come. Four different sources of energy would mean four completely different types of refuelling and charging infrastructure. This applies not only to the gas station network but also to people's homes for electric cars. Electric cars would be at their best in urban areas, but there are very few possibilities for charging in housing companies — the purchase of electric cars is still only possible for wealthy detached residents. In addition, the reliability of electric cars is particularly questionable for rural residents of long distances, and rightly so. The essential question is how the government intends to promote the construction of the electricity, biogas and hydrogen charging infrastructure and which of these will ultimately be prioritised. We know that this issue of the future of transport taxation remains unresolved. Transport is a huge source of tax revenue for the state. Here in Question Time, we were asked if we were going to receive a mile-based charge. And will it be compensated by tax refunds for those living in rural areas? The result would be a new tax price equal to the social welfare model, where people change their homes for the sake of tax advantage. Or do we perhaps get a kilometre-based system in which the government monitors the whereabouts of each car at every moment? Mr President! The citizens' initiative on the high costs of driving is very timely and it is high time that the government's idea of the future of taxation on mobility was answered. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u150	I note that the 60 minutes allocated to this matter have elapsed for this time. The proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall continue at this hearing after the other points have been examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u151	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Congressman Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u152	Mr President! It is therefore a citizens' initiative to reduce the tax on liquid fuels, and that is what is going on. First of all, I would like to thank you for the initiative and then say that tight taxation is usually a problem in the sense that it kills many types of activity, work and enterprise, and thus has a negative impact on purchasing power development and leads to competitiveness. It is therefore important that this taxation of liquid fuels is also considered as part of the key factors involved in the national economy. We have a fundamental problem with the current government in that it has set an excessive climate policy objective, the objective of carbon neutrality, by 2035, when in the EU it is 2050 and in Sweden it is 2045. This objective leads us to act, knowingly or unwittingly, in such a way that the economy as a whole, employment and people's livelihoods are jeopardised by the overcrowded objective. It also easily leads to false investments, which become old and expensive and are not even optimally good for climate objectives. In this respect, this aspect of the fuel issue must be considered very carefully. The extension of emissions trading to transport fuels and heating of residential buildings is now on the way. The matter is being dealt with by the committees. This extension will lead to a further increase in the price of liquid fuels and will now seek compensation for the poor. The compensation model is such that it would benefit mainly from the low-income, so-called energy poverty of Italy, Spain, France and a few other EU countries, but in Finland this similar problem, which, however, affects us even worse than those countries, would be considered to be replaced by housing and income support, i.e. Finland would pay this bill twice. Mr President! It is important that efforts are made to reduce the prices of liquid fuels and thus to revitalise the national economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u153	Thank you. — Representative Piehainen absent, representative Kotiaho absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u154	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mrs Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u158	Thank you for your presentation. — Representative Laiho absent, representative Vestman absent, representative Ovaska absent. — Ledamot Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u159	Thank you, Mr President. After the introduction of Mrs Myllykoski, all you can do is agree with it. There's not much to add. However, this is a very welcome initiative. Current legislation, or rather current practice, is inadequate and contradictory in the sense of common sense, contrary to all morals and ethics associated with hunting. As a food producer and advocate of domestic food, it seems incredible that good game will be destroyed while discussing food losses and emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u160	Tack, ärade talman! I would also like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for my part. Usually when Myllykoski goes out with others to collect names, there will be over a hundred and there will be good initiatives. There has already been cooperation over the last period, for example in the field of default marking, and since that too was achieved, perhaps we could also make some sense of this at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u161	Mr President! Thank you to Mrs Myllykoski for this bill and for bringing its famous common sense into this debate. As it says in the bill, the Ely Centre has granted derogations for shooting 3555 white cheek geese both last autumn and last autumn. In fact, I should be able to control the enormous growth of the stock even more strongly, but if we are talking about just this bill, it is completely incomprehensible that such a killed bird should be burned or buried rather than eaten. As far as I am concerned, this is still a very good game, so this is not going to go to common sense. I am simply deeply wondering what is the one who is holding this issue back at the moment, because this has already been discussed before, and I feel it is something that should now be promoted at a rapid pace. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u162	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u163	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for a very relevant and important initiative, although it seems rather small. Such a situation contrary to the public's general sense of justice should be sought to bring history to the fore. It is incomprehensible that, so far, no solution has been found that can be justified. You used, Mr Myllykoski, the word ‘moorless’,and there is a question about this, considering that good,foodable elections for man will It's not supposed to be like this. Mr President! In this context, of course, one might wonder why, for example, these white-cheese geese cannot be reduced more and then used as a food. I understand that there are EU directives, the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive behind it, and I remember when almost 30 years ago, when we were dealing with these EU regulations, this and a few others were able to go there without reservation to the Treaty of Accession. At that point, some other Member States have made reservations and then had reasonable opportunities to move about these regulations at national level and deal with it in a different way from ours. In this use of meat — I understand that Estonia, Denmark and Sweden can do what is stated in this initiative — the question arises as to whether or not directives are really an obstacle to opening up and amending this. I therefore very much hope that the committee will take this widely supported initiative as a matter of urgency, that it will deal with these issues and obstacles, and that we will have a report which is nationally wise, responsible and moral, and that it will be adopted here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u164	Thank you. — Ledamot Ollikainen, var vanlig.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u165	Ärade talman, Mr President! I am one of those who have signed this bill and I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski, Mrs Myllykoski, for putting this issue on the table. With regard to this issue, we unanimously adopted today in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection a report on the law on the prevention and compensation of damage caused by protected animals. The report contained two proposals for statements on the flexible application of the derogations provided for by the Birds Directive in order to prevent damage caused by the cormorants and to prevent damage caused by the cormorants to commercial fishing and to prepare an aid scheme. In other words, we have already taken part in this issue, but this will continue, and this is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the encouraging words and excellent speeches that were well focused on the subject itself. I must now go on with my own argument: If I am playing laity lawyer here, then if killing a bird is an exception, that is to say, you can shoot at it and kill it, then I think that this calming decision has been dismantled for that bird and then it is no longer a protected animal at that point. When this interpretation of the Nature Conservation Act is based on the fact that the animal is not to be used, when the calming process is dismantled with an exception so that it can be shot, then it will no longer be sedated at the point when it is to be put on pot. A few words: We kind of have two types of white cheek geese. Others are the ones who nested here in Finland, and it is the achievement of Korkeasaari when they were released and then they were able to seek partners in Central Europe and began to spread out here in urban areas and quite a nuisance to many beaches and the destruction of the lawns of parks. The same is true of cormorants. We have cormorants that move to nesting areas, but then we have huge colonies. According to a fisherman’s report — to whom I trust — he has lost 70% of his perch in five years, which means that it is no longer worth even fishing. This is also on the road to a domestic fish promotion programme that we cannot shoot these birds in the sense of expulsion. In other words, once again, the directive does not prevent these birds from being shot. Of course, the goose belongs to one, which is a highly protected species, but the cormorants do not belong to either, to be hunted or then to be protected. Thank you to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for today's records. They are excellent and bearable. It gave some hope that in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy this could have some positive thinking so that it could then be sent to the Council of State, for example. But that's all. Thank you very much. The bill was written by the emergency number 112. Let us hope that it is a sign that there will now be assistance in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u167	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Congressman Kaunto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u168	Mr President! The proceeds of the bet have been partly due to the interest rate, but also due to the actions of Veikkaus' own responsible actions and other social actors. We are talking about EUR 300 million. This change is likely to be of a lasting nature. This money is directly out of the funding of those involved in physical activity, culture and science. Now, in the new lottery law, the government has presented solutions to problems that look closely at the rear-view mirror. My question is: is blocking the Internet, for example, an action that inspires the future and innovative thinking? I'll answer it myself. No, it's not. At the same time, the government has harshly turned its eyes away from the questionable link between the returns of Veikkaus and those who do good work. Again, is it right that the money of those with gambling problems should be used to run good-working associations? I'll say no. The funding of beneficiaries should therefore be transferred to the state budget and, at the same time, scrutinize carefully those operators who are eligible for tax subsidies. Mr President! Neither those who rely on the old monopoly model nor those who require the licence model to be cleared will be able to ensure the sustainability of this important funding by means of individual large solutions. That is why new measures are needed, and I shall now present you with a legal initiative that is contagious of this problem. The initiative proposes to extend the current donation reduction for companies or other entities within the meaning of Section 57 of Chapter 3 of Part III of the Income Tax Act. According to the current wording of paragraph 1, paragraph 2, the Community may, in a more specific manner as specified by the Government Decree, deduct from its revenue a contribution of at least EUR 850 and not more than EUR 50000 made for the purpose of promoting science, art or the preservation of Finnish cultural traditions to an association, foundation or a fund designated by the Tax Administration in the European Economic Area or in connection with the above mentioned purpose of supporting science, art or the preservation of Finnish cultural traditions. The initiative also proposes a significant extension of the current donation reduction for a natural person under Section 98a of Chapter 5 of Part III of the Income Tax Act. According to the current wording of the article, the natural person and the estate may deduct from their income a contribution of at least EUR 850 and not more than EUR 500000 made for the purpose of promoting science or art to a university or university receiving public funding in the European Economic Area or to a university fund associated with them. In accordance with the bill, it would be added that the tax deduction would be justified by an operator whose activities would be based on the promotion of sport, physical education, science, art, youth work, health, social well-being, horse education or horse sports, or the preservation of Finnish cultural traditions. This would therefore encourage individuals or businesses, for example, to participate more strongly in the financing of actors vital to society. The change in the law itself does not generate revenue, but it would allow sports and sports clubs in particular to have a new opportunity to raise funds. Mr President! To the end, I want to remind all of us: Mobility costs society up to EUR 7 billion a year. If we do not invest in children and young people moving into working life mentally and physically healthy in due course, this decline will only increase. I would like us in this Chamber to see our work more accessible than disciplined, and I hope that my legislative initiative will also be carefully dealt with in the Parliamentary Committee on the Future of Veikkaus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u169	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u170	Mr President! I would like to support Mrs Kauto's very good legislative initiative seeking solutions. We all know that the situation and the future of Veikkaus are causing widespread concern in the NGO field. Instead of always looking for annual patch solutions, permanent solutions for the future of Veikkaus funding are needed very quickly, as Mrs Kauisto has already pointed out. It is clear that this bill will not solve this problem as a whole but will be a small part of the solution, but it could be all the more important, and at least it would not be more important to anyone. This tax instrument, that is to say, the donation reduction and its extension, could give a signal and strong support to sports and sports clubs for their own fundraising, and this would provide us with new means to encourage Finns to move. The whole field under Veikkaus — culture and art, sports and sports, the world of science and our universities and youth work — is waiting for solutions from the parliament to secure long-term funding. I hope that Parliament will welcome this legislative initiative in order to get the cycle of good things moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u171	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u172	Mr President! Of course, this is something that affects all of us, and this is certainly not an opposition to government and opposition; it is precisely we, as we are now, who have to deal with the future. 2023 is a difficult situation. Fortunately, the government is compensating for the fall in the profit margin this year and next year, but it is difficult to achieve 2023. As far as the issues of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs are concerned, there are a great many people who are concerned with these winnings. It is physical activity, sport, science, youth work, in general, these organisations and cultural players, who have received a bet on the winnings. Then, of course, I myself have also worked in many of those social welfare and health care organisations, and these too are now falling short of the funding that they may have received in the past. Here are all the good advice needed, and all such innovative and new-seeking solutions are now very important. There is one in this initiative by Mrs Beautifulto, and I would like to see it evaluated at least and not adopted. It is not in the opinion of the government that, when it is done by a representative of the opposition, it cannot be put into practice, nor can it even look at it and evaluate it, but it is worth using any means at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u173	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u174	Mr President! This is a very important issue and it is essential that a permanent, sustainable solution be found as soon as possible to this situation and the consequences of this situation. I cannot judge whether this is the case, but I would like to thank you for the creativity that has been found and for the initiative that has been taken. I will return to the past and recall 30 years ago when the House, or the Government and Parliament, were reformed, our entire tax legislation. The Minister for Finance was Iiro Viinanen, whose line was the one — which was easy to agree with — that we need a broad tax base and low tax rates. This model was accompanied by efforts to eliminate tax deductions and virtually all tax deductions were abandoned at that time. Well, some have come since then. Of course, there has been a reduction in income and pension income all the time, but there was no such point-by-point tax deductions. Some of them have now been returned, but not very widely. This model would now be based on the fact that these donations would be tax deductible and would then lead to a backward development which, in my opinion, had been very well experienced in a different direction when the deduction was abandoned. Then it happened that when the deduction was abandoned and the tax base was expanded and tax rates lowered, tax revenues went into strong growth. For example, companies were subject to excellent tax reforms. It strengthened the balance sheets of companies when they were not taxed clean as soon as the result came, and we have enjoyed this model for these 30 years. That is all I wanted to say here, however, that it is always worth considering very carefully whether to go to it. It has advantages for certain parties, but not necessarily for the whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u175	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u176	Mr President! Now that I listened to the introduction, it opened up to me, and there was a magic word, a horse, so I immediately had to give a supportive speech. Well, humor aside, but in my view this is part of the same family as the stimulus voucher, that is, the promotion of physical activity and culture, where the employer receives tax benefits when he gives his employees the opportunity to move or engage in culture. It brings it to the well-being expressed in the presentation by Mrs Beautifulto in adulthood, which is necessary for the functioning and virility of our soul and body. Just as Mr Kankaanniemi said, it is not advisable to close the door immediately, and, as Mr Risikko said, it is certainly not at this point in our view that the loss of these profit margins can be a matter for the opposition or for the government, one or the other. Yes, it's common to us. This is gonna take another year, but we'll see. We've got a year. I agree with Mrs Kaunto that the licence does not save the chance that our winnings will return at least to the same level as they have been. In other words, it is quite clear that: My own ethical measures will bring about a reduction in income, and I am not sorry if that means that there are fewer people with gambling problems in this country at the same time. It's a really big challenge for a lot of people. I hope that this will be dealt with, because yes, this has its own advantages. Of course, I am a little puzzled by the fact that, through charity, we are simply starting to make use of important things for society, but this is a donation that is made possible in this way. Let us hope that even on that hiking fish side — it is known to me that this kind of tax deduction right could be made in connection with a donation — tax-free support could be given to refurbishment of a hiking fish canal in connection with the dismantling of dams.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u177	Thank you. — The first signatory of the initiative, Mrs Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u178	Mr President! Thank you for these comments. These are very constructive. And as Mr Risikko and Mr Grahn-Laasonen raised here, the essential thing is that this whole is certainly not a government-opposition issue, but that this problem is likely to be faced by all the parliamentary parties at some point in their lives. The concern about the future of these important players will certainly be very great for all of us. In my opinion, Mr Kankaanniemi raised a very good reflection on tax reductions, and in that sense I agree that if we are able to make a strong reduction in tax rates, then we will really come to a situation where the role and importance of tax reductions will fall. It should also be pointed out that this bill merely extended the scope of these players to reflect the current focus of Veikkaus' profits. I personally do not like to talk about the winnings of Veikkaus, because I still believe that they are, in part, very questionable. All in all, the idea is that, as we already see a huge number of examples from the world and from Finland, where individual people, individual companies take important steps and bear the social responsibility that we decision-makers always like to emphasise, this bill is precisely intended to give additional impetus and encouragement to the fact that we are all carrying this welfare of Finland a little further and, above all, we are doing it for the benefit of children and young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u179	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 34/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u180	Thank you, Mr President. In my concise speech, I present the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on consumer protection 34/2021. The proposal proposes to amend the Consumer Protection Act to implement the Directive on Digital Contracts and the Directive on Trade in Goods. The implementation of the Trade in Goods Directive requires changes to the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, including the characteristics and error of the goods and the consequences of the error. The implementation of the Digital Contracts Directive, on the other hand, requires a substantial extension of the regulation of consumer protection law. These changes have been estimated to have the greatest impact on trade in technically complex goods in particular. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that the proposed regulation takes balanced account of the rights and obligations of the parties to the consumer trade. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the proposed regulation with certain comments on the goods used, the correction of errors, the liability for errors in the provision of one-off supplies and the entry into force, and with minor technical changes as described in the detailed explanatory memorandum. The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament, as amended, accepts the bill contained in the government proposal HE 180/2021, and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy was unanimous in its report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u181	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 11/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. I will open the general debate and say here that Mr Pylös is gone. — Mr Risikko, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u182	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and the Law on Qualifications from Higher Education Studies abroad. The Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications would also include the tasks of the National Board of Education in the application of the Professional Qualifications Directive where the professions are not regulated in Finland. The Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and the Law on the Validity of Higher Education Studies carried out abroad would also include new provisions on the levying of fees for processing applications for recognition. The Act amending the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications is intended to enter into force in autumn 2021. However, the provisions on processing fees would not enter into force until 1 January 2022. The Act amending the law on eligibility for higher education studies abroad is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022. The purpose of the bill is to ensure in Finland the possibility for representatives of the unregulated professions to pursue a profession in another EU country and to facilitate the collection of the Board of Education's processing and decision-making fees. The committee considers that the government proposal is necessary and appropriate. This proposal relates in particular to the obligation under Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/907 on a common training test for ski instructors established pursuant to Article 49b of Directive 2005/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications (hereinafter referred to as the Commission Regulation) to issue a certificate of competence for ski instructors on the basis of acquired rights under Article 7 of that Regulation. This provision ensures that ski instructors trained in Finland can demonstrate the competence of ski instructors in other EU and EEA countries, despite the fact that the profession is not regulated in Finland. It is proposed that a provision be added to the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, which applies not only to ski instructors but also covers all other professions that are not regulated in Finland. According to the draft Act, the Finnish National Board of Education is the competent authority for procedures under the Professional Qualifications Directive in Finland for all unregulated professions, unless otherwise provided elsewhere. This task complements the current set of tasks of the Finnish National Board of Education relating to the Professional Qualifications Directive, so the Committee on Education considers the proposed solution to be justified. The committee considers the two-stage payment procedure for applications for recognition of professional qualifications and for the comparison of qualifications and studies to be appropriate. The proposed provisions on the processing of the application and the date for payment of the fees for the decision are to be welcomed. The committee proposes to amend the entry into force of the Act amending the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, as set out in the expert consultation, with a new Article 13a on fees would enter into force only on 1.3.2022. The expert opinion also expressed the wish that Vuokat Sports College should be removed as an authority granting the ski instructor's qualifications, because the training has been organised in cooperation with the Finnish Ski Teachers Association and the latter grants the certificates. In this regard, the committee notes that the status of the Vuokat Sports College has been included in the Annex to the Commission Regulation and that any amendment to the Regulation requires negotiations between the Ministry and the European Commission. Indeed, there was only such a change as to make Parliament accept the second bill contained in the Government proposal unchanged, but the Parliament accepts the first bill included in the Government proposal amended, and it was only there that these entry into force had to be. In other words, this went forward very unanimously and unanimously, and this is very good. I personally see that this recognition of professional qualifications, which was an example here too, is very important to enable people to move around in the EEA and the EU. In addition to this, the possibilities for this recognition were further strengthened by the National Board of Education in a completely different way, and that is also a good thing. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u183	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 12/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u184	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Student and Student Care Act. The proposal relates to the registration of Prime Minister Sanna Marin's Government Programme to strengthen the services of student and student services at all levels of education. The proposal provides for human resources to be allocated to the organisation of the psychological and curator services of student and student services. In addition, the code of eligibility of the curator would be clarified. Then there are the arguments of the committee: According to the Student and Student Care Act, student care is primarily carried out as a preventive, community-based education service supporting the entire educational institution community. In addition, students are entitled to individual study care in accordance with the law. The aim of the presentation is to strengthen preventive, community-based education care, early intervention and individual support for study care according to the personal needs of each student and student. Student care available to all pupils and students and of the highest possible quality aims to prevent problems and promote the learning of children and young people, mental and physical health and social well-being. The proposed provisions aim to strengthen the well-being of both children and young people, as well as of educational and educational communities. The committee also considers it important to invest in education care from the point of view that, by strengthening the resources of the curator and psychological services, teaching staff can better focus on their core tasks. The committee considers the draft law to be necessary and supported and proposes that it be adopted without amendment. A few words on the individual points, first of all on the human resources: The Student and Student Care Act proposes to provide for a binding dimension between students and students in the tasks of study services, curators and psychologists. The proposal provides for at least one curator per 670 students and one psychologist per 780 students in education and secondary education falling within the scope of the Student and Student Care Act. Binding personnel measurements aim to ensure a more equal availability and quality of the study services needed by students and students across Finland at different levels of education. The committee believes that the impact of the dimensioning should be monitored and, if necessary, the regulation relating to the dimensioning should be amended. The committee stresses that this dimension provides for a maximum number of students. One curator and psychologist may be responsible for fewer students than provided for in the section, as the need for support for pupils and students varies. If, when the law enters into force, the rating ratio is better than that laid down by law in a municipality, the continuation of such a situation is only desirable. Therefore, the size of the human resources required by the law is not intended to reduce the current dimensioning. The human resources allocation for curator services is intended to enter into force from the beginning of 2022. The committee notes that Article 18(1) of the Act on the implementation of the reform of social welfare, health care and rescue measures and the implementation of the legislation in this area states that the transfer to the welfare area and the welfare group of the psychologists and curators working for the municipality or joint municipal authority shall be regarded as a transfer of business. The committee considers both the adequate number of student care staff and the continuity of staff to be an important factor in promoting well-being. According to the Government's proposal, the costs of psychological measurements in primary and primary education and secondary education, including compulsory education in liberal education, amount to a total of EUR 20,9 million and the corresponding costs of curator measurements total EUR 8,3 million. Financing is included in the budgetary plan for 2021 to 2023. We also discussed in committee the availability of staff, which has been discussed in detail here, which is, of course, the concern that these psychologists and curators will certainly be available, and we also wrote here about these starting points and we wondered whether it would be enough. It has been estimated in the government's proposal that it is enough, but we nevertheless considered it important to state this here in the report. In this report, we are also dealing with the requirements for the eligibility of curators and also with the supervision of study care, of which a few words: The supervision of student care is provided for in Article 26 of the Student and Student Care Act, which provides for the supervision of psychological, curatoral, school and student health care services under Section 3 of the Act on Social Welfare and Section 2 of the Public Health Act. These control provisions are partly out of date. The reference to the Act on Social Welfare is to legislation previously in force and subsequently repealed. According to the information received by the Education Committee, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is preparing a Government proposal to amend student and study care, which is intended to carry out the necessary amendments to the law for the reform of social welfare. In the same context, obsolete control provisions are also to be corrected. The Government proposal is expected to be submitted to Parliament in early 2020. It is also important to note that, in the course of the committee's deliberations, the Ministry of Education and Culture has pointed out that, contrary to what is stated in the legislative explanatory memorandum to the Government's proposal, the function of curator should be to continue to be regarded as a regulated profession under Law 1384/2015 on the recognition of professional qualifications (hereinafter referred to as the Professional Qualifications Act) in the future because of the clarification proposed in section 7 on eligibility. That is why we wanted to raise it to this report, which is to say that it has been corrected there, but it is still a little wrong in this explanatory statement. So this is the basis for the departure, and the very unanimous debate was ours. I will make my own contribution here, but in this context the committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to adopt the bill contained in the government proposal without amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u185	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u186	Mr President! The aim of the Government’s proposal is to strengthen preventive community education, early intervention and individual support for study care according to the personal needs of each student and student. We will certainly not be able to get into a fight about this. A very, very important issue that we need to address, and especially since the corona, I see that the risks to the indiscretion of pupils and young people have increased. But then we come to this dimension: Personalization, as we have certainly noticed in various things, is not the only solution. I believe and hope that funding will be found and that funding will be guaranteed and it will be long-term and we can rely on it and not end up going back and forth on such an important issue. But then the second question, if there is enough funding, is how we have enough curators and psychologists, whether access is sufficient. I think that this is perhaps the biggest challenge for this whole, and this is something that the government must definitely pay attention to. Mr President! To this end, I would like to raise the invisible hat on the valuable work that school psychologists and curators do. They are faced with a truly valuable task, and with all the encouragement I can give them — a valuable job — with this speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u187	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u188	Mr President! It's very important. We constantly hear bad news about how children and young people are sick in schools, educational institutions. It must be prevented, and these measures and efforts must be targeted there, because there will also be the future of our nation as a whole now and in the coming times. Mr President! I am thinking here of the fact that, in more than a year's time, when people move to social welfare and well-being areas and these school psychologists and curators move from municipalities to welfare areas, there is an opportunity in this context to act wisely, regardless of the municipality, to place this staff in schools so that they serve just the appropriate number of students. For example, in small municipalities it is not enough for small schools to be able to work for a person in the main activity, and then agreements have been made between municipalities, and in the same way substitutions and other such problems have always had to be looked for a municipal solution, but when they move into the welfare area to the service of a large employer, it would be precisely these synergies that could and hopefully will be as great as possible in this kind of activity. This will also make the number of staff better than it may have been, and then such peer support and expertise can become more effective. That is what I would like to stress. Of course, the starting point for the reform is that this staff should remain close to the students, students and not be concentrated in a provincial centre. This is an important point, and when the reform of social security was carried out, I brought it up and received satisfactory answers that this is the way to go. Then, overall, this dimension and funding are really very important issues, and I hope that the government, the present and the future, and Parliament will take care of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u189	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u190	Mr President! The law in this concept, the government proposal and this report are, of course, very unanimous in the Committee on Education and Rural Development, that this dimension is indeed to be welcomed in terms of the psychological and curator services of student and student care. So now the situation is that mental health problems have increased, drug abuse problems have increased. In high school and secondary school, it seems that the anxiety of high school girls and, of course, the anxiety of boys has increased. Korona has made it worse, telework may not be suitable for everyone and so on. So we really do need these services. When this was discussed, we did very strongly raise the issues that I myself would like to raise here in my own speech. So, of course, I am concerned about how we can get enough of these psychologists and curators. Of course, it is important that, if such a measure is the case, then you should be sure that they will be obtained. There is, of course, a problem here that we need to have these training places for these professionals and there must be enough of them, but then they are located in different parts of Finland enough. And their overall position in the organisation: Representative Action Even the Kankaanniemi here referred to this social reform that, now that they are moving to the welfare area, there is a great risk that when you have a huge care debt even after the corona of these mental health problems in people of all ages, then you will do so in such a way that this staff will not be earmarked there to schools, so to speak. In the opinion of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have drawn attention to this, and it is quite right that it should be noted in the legislation that, despite the fact that these psychologists and curators are moving into welfare areas, they then operate specifically in schools, but when the area of self-government has the opportunity to make these changes temporarily and so on, I will take note of this and say that, in schools, these people are needed precisely close to those students and students. Then, in the committee hearing, the Psychological Union also brought us such worrying information that there is not necessarily a great deal to be desired as psychologists in student and study care, and that is certainly due to a great many things. What can we do? We can do that by showing its appreciation, we parents who know that our young people there are studying and may have a situation that they need a psychologist and a curator. For my part, at least, I would like to say that you are very important and I would like to encourage you to apply for this job. - Thank you. I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u191	Thank you. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u192	Mr President! The only reason why I would like to say that the second problem which we discussed in committee and which is also here in the report — and I would like to point out it as my own — is this financial adequacy. So now these psychologists are moving to the welfare area, and we already know that there is quite a financial shortage in the welfare area. We do not know exactly how much money is missing in which area. It depends so much, of course, on the calculation formula that has already been made, but what it means since 2023, how much wealth the region receives, we do not really know until then. Even in the sense that it does not happen that it is these psychologists and curators who will then have to be eliminated, it is a good thing that this dimension is here, but it will not help much if they then have to be removed from the schools at the same time. The contribution of these professional groups, psychologists and curators, is enormous, so that young people and students and students are able to study to achieve their goal of coping in life and in working life and in society. Many young people have been helped by a school psychologist or curator, and that is why we value the work of psychologists and curators. That is why we hope that there will be good people for this task and that we will be able to secure that funding when they do not have the earmarked money, but the welfare area will then decide on this money. That is why I hope that, despite these being transferred to the welfare area, it will be possible to ensure that the availability of services is good and that the availability is uniform and also quality in itself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u193	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to reject the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative. Parliament's statements are now being decided. The debate and proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 19 November 2021. The debate will continue. Representative Myllykoski absent, representative Guzenina absent, representative Aittakumpu absent. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-25-ps-140.u194	Mr President! It is therefore a question of a legislative initiative, based on a citizens' initiative, to close open fellings in state countries. It is a pleasure to extend warm thanks to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for having produced a very good, balanced and unanimous report on this rather touching, difficult issue. It is important that the state manages its forests very well, and I believe that this will happen now and in the future. That is why a procedure that does not go down this road of strict bans is quite appropriate. Forests, state forests as well as the rest of the world, must be managed well, and protection is part of the good management of forests, but also logging in a sensible way, taking into account the characteristics of each area. Protection of forests and biodiversity is an important issue in which the state must be a pioneer. With these words I would like to thank you for this report, and I am sure that this is the end of the matter.
