ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u1	I regret that this session will begin a little later than planned. There were technical problems before the agenda was drawn up, which was needed before the new session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u2	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. The matter was put on the table in the previous plenary session today, and the debate is now continuing. — Representative Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u3	Thank you, Madam President. This government proposal on accommodation and nutrition has unfortunately become familiar with the bill. Admittedly, this is a very difficult whole, but of course there have been no good or easy decisions in this situation of interest rates. However, I do not believe that the previous wishes and efforts that have been expressed in this House, including the fact that these restrictive measures should be more subtle, are being fully implemented in this proposal either. In the spirit of the debate, I would like to draw attention to a number of points, which I believe should now be addressed in the parliamentary debate in this draft law. Firstly, what is absolutely essential for the operators in the restaurant and tourism sector is that information should be given to the operators in the past, that they would have a clear picture that if this situation of interest rates were to happen, then this would happen and this would happen. And in my opinion, when it comes to making schedules, orders and planning the operation in general, this is rather fast-track. That is understandable, of course, but I hope that the government will continue to pay attention to this. And now that we have finally reached this regional judgement at regional level, I would like to see more understanding of the fact that we have very different provinces and we already have very large regions, and in this respect we should try to do more, for the sake of fine reasons. In addition, I would also like to see more detailed treatment of restaurants, as it were. We have very different restaurant activities: karaoke pubs and food restaurants are different in their operating logic and also in how people behave and how business is done there at all. Even in view of these differences, we would be able, in part, to carry out this will of Parliament, as far as this finer consideration is concerned. Finally, on this point, I would like to say that, when it is quite extensive in this Parliament, I would say that there is a cross-party state of will that this sale of alcohol would also be considered, and yet it has not been possible to bring it here to Parliament in the last few months, I think it would be a hand-out, that while the restaurants sell out food, they could also sell out wines and, for example, special beers. There must also be thought of the fact that if a person really wants to keep to himself and order food from a restaurant and thereby support the entrepreneur, then people who, for example, for culinary reasons want that wine will have to go out and get it. That there would also be this side, and I think that this would be something that Parliament wanted quite broadly, which should finally and finally be brought here for us to decide in order to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u4	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u5	Madam President! Excellent speech by Mr Könttä. I understand that this has been a matter of urgency, but unfortunately this proposal is identical to it in the past and the statements made by Parliament have not been taken into account. I do not think that this is the way it can be, and this proposal must be looked at in committee carefully so that Parliament's statements are taken into account. We wanted more precision, more territoriality — unfortunately they are not available in this proposal. For example, my own municipality, Lapland, is a huge area, about 40 per cent of Finland's surface area. Yet it is treated as a single area, closing down restaurants in municipalities where there is no corona infection. This is not the way things should be handled. I am also surprised that we had good performances last time in those ski resorts. There are lifts open at the moment, but all restaurants are closed and there is no access to the terrace. There is now a so-called eternal May Day in the ski resorts in Lapland. People there are camping with their own drinks, their own food. We're on fire. We're getting contacts. I am quite sure that those contacts would be reduced by the fact that terraces can safely be used for safety intervals for people, and this too is something that I hope will be seen during this committee reading. I am also surprised at the reason why the government does not use these free means to help the tourism and restaurant sector, which is suffocating. Representative Könttä here mentioned, for example, the transportation and sale of alcohol in connection with food. Why is such a temporary measure not possible? And I would like to send a message to the government that this is not necessarily the last time we have to take such measures. We do not know how this pandemic is going to proceed, so I would strongly urge that the ministries now begin to prepare for these matters so that, next time, they can be taken into account at the latest. I see no alternative but to add fineness — subtilt, as the brothers of the RKP would probably say — to this performance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u6	Congressman Aittakumpu is gone. — Mr Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u7	Mr President! There were some excellent contributions made by Mr Könttä and Mr Kärnä. And now that we are here after ten minutes to hold a referral debate, I would like to thank the Minister for being here to listen to these important speeches. Mr President! The continued closure of restaurants is certainly justified in difficult corona areas, but I would now like to pay more attention to the regions. At the moment, the performance always closes the whole province's restaurants. Would it not be better to look at this at municipal level? In many regions of the dispersal phase and the acceleration phase, there are several municipalities with very little or no corona. I believe that the restaurants in these municipalities are being unduly closed, as Mr Kärnä has said. Let us take the example of North Ostrobothnia: Oulu, a challenging situation, but not many small municipalities have very much to meet. Why do we have to shut down the restaurants in these municipalities? In the municipality of Kärsämäki during the whole corona period, there is only one case of disease, but the restaurants are closed. President! The representative, Mäkelä, asked about how to know the effect of the closing of restaurants. To this I would say that I think the hospital districts will report with the number of diseases where they are exposed and then inform THL accordingly. This is how hospital districts have also worked with restaurant exposures, they have been reported forward. In fact, this is also stated in the government's proposal, and it is of course worth getting to know. Mr President! It has been stated in the presentation that, in the event of a deterioration of the disease situation and the fulfilment of the necessity criteria, the Regulation may be amended to include the area in question in the bracket. I think that this should also work the other way around, so if the situation improves then restaurants could be opened up. People’s livelihoods should not be hampered if there is no need for them to do so. And now that these ad hoc measures have been put forward in previous speeches and also asked that the government should not be able to make government proposals in that drawer, would it not also be possible to support restaurants by temporarily calculating VAT? This can support the sale of restaurants. I hope that the minister concerned will take steps to introduce this reduction in VAT on food and drink. It would be a hand extension for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u9	Tack, värderade talman! This has already come up with some very good arguments, and I am not going to repeat them. Perhaps a few things that have not yet been raised. The restaurant industry used to employ some 80,000 people, and all these measures have, of course, had a strong impact on all these workers, their families and the ecosystem around them, and that is what this is all about when we talk about restaurants and restaurant companies: saving jobs. Yes, I personally would like to see it possible to be so creative now, especially in such exceptional times, that we genuinely consider all the ways in which this sale of alcohol is one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u10	Mr President! We are now dealing with the Government's proposal this afternoon for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on accommodation and catering. It's a strange situation. The government promised earlier to open restaurants, which we discussed last week, that the way in which restaurants were promised to open after the end of March would not open restaurants, and now we are dealing here with the government's proposal that after the end of March it should be decided to close restaurants on 18 April. up to now, all restaurants and restaurants located in areas where the acceleration or spread phase is taking place. In my own region of Northern Ostrobothnia, as in many other provinces, the internal situation is very different, especially if you think of larger regions where the geographical area, such as Lapland or some others, is very different. And in that sense, this precision and regionalism, which Parliament has called for in the past, should finally also be obtained from these government proposals. All in all, now that this three-week partial closure is coming to an end in the restaurant business. Do we have any information on the extent to which restrictions and closures on restaurant activities have curbed or reduced infection? The situation in the capital region is very different, but on the other hand, it is also visible in the regions that, when restaurants and diners have not been open, people have gathered in different types of housework, even in skewers and the like, and now it would be important for the government to ask whether we are at a point in terms of additional restrictions that we cannot reduce the total number of infections with new restrictions and full locks. Theoretically, this could be the case, but when people get tired of that situation, some who have not necessarily listened to those restrictions until now will act in such a way that the total number of infections will not be reduced. It would therefore be important now to have a clearer message on how to proceed — not with such rapid new government proposals, but with simpler, more precise restrictions and clearer information. Mr President! It would also be important to ensure that distance and exit sales of alcohol and sales of alves — including the negative return of alves,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u11	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u12	Mr President! The restriction of nutrition movements is proposed to be extended until 18.4. The explanatory memorandum to the Government’s proposal states that this reformed law would continue to provide for areas where it is necessary to keep the internal and external premises of the nutritionists closed in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. This means, in practice, designated areas of acceleration and spread. The Government's proposal also states that the incidence of the epidemic in South Ostrobothnia has decreased and that North Savo has risen. The THL therefore considers that South Ostrobothnia could now be excluded from the blockade. This is also good news, of course, in such a way that successful measures can also restore economic activity in line with the hybrid model. Of course, this unfortunate incidence data is in North Savo. Mr President! On the other hand, the proposal still does not include internal examination of the regions, although Parliament, the Economic Committee and the Constitutional Committee have required this in their reports and opinions. The Government's proposal states that the matter has been examined but will not be implemented. In this respect, therefore, the Government does not follow the will expressed by Parliament. This is now good to know in Lapland and other provinces. This is the government's line, and once these regional priorities have been strongly raised here by the representatives of the centre, I see no alternative but to the fact that the representatives of the city centre inform their own ministers how to deal with this issue. We in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will be happy to support this solution when we draw up this report. But even in committee, the situation is such that there is a majority in the government parties, and this leads to the conclusion that within the government this issue must now be vigorously taken forward, and I trust the representatives of the centre of the House that they will act. Mr President! The proposal has a significant economic impact on the nutrition sector, whose business has been restricted for a year. A reasonable compensation must be maintained and the duration of the lock and subsequent measures must be kept in mind with a clear view to its accuracy and the necessity of restrictions. However, as far as these restrictions are concerned, when we look at this government proposal and seek an objective assessment, we are now acting as if in the grey zone and these restrictions are also being made secure, not just those necessary restrictions. That, too, is a good thing for the government to recognise now when it comes to further work on matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u13	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u14	Mr President! I believe that only a few sectors have been hit by this corona crisis as violently and as hard as the restaurant industry is. It is now a matter of thousands of entrepreneurs and their businesses fighting, of companies surviving the next week and past this spring, and especially now that the government's proposal is continuing this barrage of restaurants, I am afraid that this spring will be the worst thing that has been seen so far. That is why it is important to help the sector so that this compensation can be paid to companies without delay. Entrepreneurs no longer have a cash register to take care of this crisis, there is no possibility of using shortening-free. They're living out of hand to mouth now. This is not only about the companies of these thousands of entrepreneurs, but also about the jobs of thousands of Finns, and we need to make sure that they get through this spring. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to say that, at the same time, it is also important to take measures to facilitate entrepreneurship in the restaurant sector in the context of dealing with this immediate crisis. Here, for example, the right to sell wines permanently is an excellent tool, and I hope that it will also take place in the preparation of the government. Thirdly, Mr President, I would like to highlight the need for these restrictive measures, which have been mentioned several times when we have dealt with this whole package of legislation. It is now proposed that this barrage of restaurants should continue in those regions which are either part of the expansion or acceleration phase of the corona. At the same time, however, we also know that the interest rate is dwindling — fortunately — in several regions, such as my own province of Satakunta, where, fortunately, the situation has been eased even on a fast schedule, so I ask the Minister: since the regulation has provided for these so-called'sat'. will you and the government of the country now assess, during this new state of closure, whether certain provinces will also be removed from this state of closure if this necessity principle is no longer fulfilled, in other words, the corona situation has been so relieved that there is no longer any basis for such a drastic restriction on economic activity? How is this? It seems to me very strange and quite incomprehensible that, under the legislation, new provinces may be added to the blockade during this closure but nothing is said about whether these provinces which are in the closure state can be added if the corona situation improves.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u15	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u16	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, Minister, for still being here. The government has again brought a proposal on restaurants to the plenary in an absurd hurry, even though a slight change was being made. The motion was submitted one hour before the beginning of the sitting. The content of the proposal is also reflected in the urgency. There has been no consultation and the content of the proposal suggests that neither restaurant entrepreneurs nor restaurant workers have been consulted. When a government should make difficult decisions, it often hides responsibility behind the trio. But here the logic of the government has long been clear. Its content is: to ban everything completely regardless of the costs and consequences of entrepreneurs, just in case. Dear government, you have repeatedly raised the restaurants to the beak and branded all the restaurants responsible for the spread of infections, even though there is no evidence to support this. Numerous entrepreneurs across Finland have done everything in their power to enable their customers to shop securely in their businesses. However, you are referring to these measures taken by restaurants and you are saying that everything is banned. The torment of restaurant entrepreneurs has been going on for a year now, and now we want to keep the restrictions as severe and there is no relief in sight. At the same time, you are prepared to pay only 70 % of the fixed costs for companies, even though you have a thorn in southern Europe. Do you realise, Mr Government, that many entrepreneurs already have a completely empty cash register and a deep-seated cash register, and it seems to be going on and on? My question is: why on earth are you making restaurant entrepreneurs and their employees pay for this crisis? Mr President! Even if you do not listen to the restaurant industry or the opposition, you could at least listen to the Constitutional Committee. It published its opinion this morning on the previous proposal on restaurants. Paragraph 10 of the opinion calls on the Government to consider delimiting the territorial scope of the restrictions in a more subtle way than the regional division. But what is the government doing? This new proposal is accompanied by a draft regulation which will continue to close restaurants in 15 regions, including Lapland. Good government, Lapland is about a third of Finland's surface area. Now you are going to close all restaurants throughout Lapland, even though the distances between municipalities are up to hundreds of kilometres and some municipalities do not have any infections at all. How do you justify this to the entrepreneurs of Lapland? Yes, I'm sure you won't, because that's impossible. Mr President! Unfortunately, when I read this motion, I cannot help but wonder whether there is not one person in the board or its management five who has any experience of being an entrepreneur or even some idea of business realities. We all know that the demos want to deny everything that cannot be taxed to death or buried unprofitable. But what I don't understand is how the city center and RKP can agree to this and stand nice behind this kind of performance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u17	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u18	Mr President! We have seen this presentation before, because it is almost identical to the previous one. In that sense, perhaps I find it strange that they wanted to put it on the table and move it. We would have been able to deal with it, and now it is very useful to get to grips with the content and see if we can improve this even further. Regrettably, the restaurants will be closed down, and it is true that the Constitutional Committee has defined that this division could be more subtle than this regional level, and this criticism of the size of Lapland is perfectly understandable and quite reasonable. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy must therefore consider how to achieve this fine-tuning at this point. Of course, it is also understandable that in some other regions, where distances are also tens of kilometres, sometimes up to 100 kilometres, special treatment is required for Lapland, and there could be such a difficult situation at this point where more regions would be in a difficult situation. There is also a situation here that avis would have to make these finer decisions, and of these decisions placing responsibility on the doors at this point is at least questionable, and I understand that this is why we are looking for such universal closures. Restaurants do not understand this and it is their full right. For these reasons, it makes sense not to pay only 70 % of the costs, but to consider it to be 100 %, once we shut down the restaurants ourselves and prevent them from doing business. And at this point it is good to ask the Minister why we should not simply pay for the cost of the whole operation, not only of wages, but also of these fixed costs, the 100 %. I understand that much more has been said about it here in Parliament. As far as this lock is concerned, it is now three more weeks, and it would also be fair to start talking very quickly about the fact that, after a large enough number of people have been vaccinated, how we would begin to open this society effectively. — Let me tell you the last thing, I know that three minutes will be up. — I think it would be very fair that we should now give out a clear path and point out that once the necessity has ceased somewhere, that province will also be opened completely, i.e. make this kind of clear message that if society has stepped up to such a state,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u19	Now Minister Hatainen is in a hurry to answer the House of Regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u20	Mr President! In many speeches, the question arose as to why this has not been done more finely. This is the same basis as in the previous proposal, that is, this division of regions. One could be a hospital district division. Well, it's almost the same as the province. Then again, if you go to such sub-regions, then such legislation does not even feel in terminology, and then if you go to municipal level, then it has been clearly stated through health authorities that it is difficult to draw a line. If there are no cases in another municipality and there is a restaurant in another municipality and there is a restaurant open in another municipality, the disease will soon be in another municipality where there were no cases. In other words, people will be met at the restaurant, and this transmutation virus is becoming increasingly contagious in these situations. Now the infection rates have been high, they have risen and they are still too high, and that is why the government, through these restrictive measures, is now imposing restrictions on the adult population in order to better protect children and young people. After all, we are now focusing on young people, educational institutions. Then there was the question of compensation. After all, a proposal has now been brought to this House to compensate for the wage costs, including side costs, and 70 % since these fixed costs. In other words, this proposal has come from Minister Lintilä and is now before Parliament. Then the question was also asked as to whether this situation would be assessed. Yes, Article 23 of the Constitution obliging the government to go through this, and we will do that weekly. If the area gets back to the base level, these restrictions must be stopped immediately. Now, in this proposal, South Ostrobothnia has been removed from the list of restrictions, which means that the situation has improved. On the other hand, in North Savo, yes, the rate of infection has increased so much that, as proposed by the THL, shutting down measures will be imposed again. This will be done weekly. This is regrettable that such a proposal should be made, but these means are not so much available. We've been combing every way, and this is what's left. Then they called for wines to be sold out of restaurants. It's under the Alcohol Act. Since then, the Act on Alcohol has not been opened, but food and alcohol can be sold out within the current restrictions. So that is the current restriction on beer and it can be sold out. And also it is here as a change to those spring restrictions that this kind of take away food can also be retrieved from the buffet, i.e. from this kind of pick-up table you can also collect it yourself for a meal. Mr President! I have to go to the Regent House because there are government negotiations going on, and when these sessions took a little longer, I have to go back there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u21	Yes, thank you. — and Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u22	Mr President! As I have said before, there is no justification for such exceptional measures. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the statistics on the dead and compare them with previous years. There is no mass-killing plague among us. Of course, infirm people die of the virus, but that's normal. People with different viruses and their sequelae die every year, and this has always happened. Of course we're supposed to protect and treat the infirm, that's obvious, but this kind of overreaction is coming back and worse. Besides, there will always be viruses, so how do you think you'll move on from here on out? Are you, ladies and gentlemen, going to spend the rest of your lives terrified of wearing a mask on your face? Wake up, people, to reality. You have been horrified, and under your responsibility, our society is being raped in a shocking manner under the pretext of this created crisis. Mr President! The blocking measures for accommodation and restaurant services have been a terrible mistake, and the continuation of restrictions is an even greater mistake. Three weeks may sound like a short period of time, but please, ladies and gentlemen, put your mind to it and think about what it really means. It is driving businesses into the debt cycle in a shocking way. Socialism has already pushed corporations into a state where a large proportion of them live hand-to-mouth. And there is no point in saying that such companies would not have had a chance of success if there were no blocking measures. Yes, it is, and it is our job in this house to create conditions for them to try and do honest work in this country. These small and medium-sized enterprises have a huge number of skilled people who are the backbone of this great country. They take personal financial risks in order to employ themselves and their workforce, and they pay with their work and livelihood for each of our livelihoods in this house too. Mr President! It is intolerable that we are talking here about health safety and, on the pretext of it, we are ruining people's lives and, therefore, their health. It is also shocking to hear that the number of suicides of children in the world has increased dramatically over the past year, and so forth. Does that sound safe to you? Good government, look in the mirror and think about how much of that health safety is visible there. You're going to wiggle a mask on your face and crush hairwines on the taxpayer while you're inventing more misery for our citizens. - Thank you and sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u23	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u24	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi behandlar nu en temporär ändring av inkvarterings- och förplägnadsverksamheten och att vi håller restauranterna och barerna stängda fram till 18.4, alltså en förlängning med tre veckor, och det rai skulle gälla på områden där det är accelerationsfas och också samhällspridningsfas. Här är förstås älsan framför allt och så vidare, men en hel del contactter i dag har faktiskt variant gällande samma saker som har komit fram iurit tidigare också, att det har variant en del diskussion inom områdena, och det auri är ju någonting som nu ekonomitskottet och grundlagsutskottet ska fundera på. Glädjande nog svarade ministern att ifall incidentstalet kommer att gå ner till en basnivå så kan man öjligtvis öppna på vägens gång, så det är är ju en öjlig öppning.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u25	Mr President! I understand this situation on the part of both the government parties and the opposition in relation to the spread of the epidemic and its management and the way in which nutritionists are treated here, and we would now try to close down for a period of three weeks. But we have had a number of areas: we have had the territory of Vaasa, then we have had Vuokatti in my province, then we have had Kuhmo, where there have been very high levels of infection, but good treatment has been able to keep them under control. In other words, if all people were to share the same goal and, above all, the way in which the corona is being treated, it might be possible to go deeper. Then, in view of the nutrition activities and ski resorts in Lapland, I understand that when there are hundreds of kilometres of distance there, it certainly does not jump in such a way that it jumps from one ski resort to another, but when it goes between Southern Finland and Northern Finland, it is often taken from that northern Finland, as now statistics show, and then brought here to Southern Finland, where there are large volumes of human beings, and it immediately begins to appear on this restaurant side. And I fully understand these entrepreneurs that it is a very big and important thing for them. When you have come now, it is said, from the beginning of the year in various places here on the Helsinki side, there have been different arrangements here. But the worst part of all this is in these pub types, which is where we are close together and sit or stand at the bar, that’s where the spread is likely to begin. Here it would certainly be possible to narrow it down to these pub types, but then in such nutrition stores, where there is a large space and where few tables are placed, could be served then on meals and so on. Of course, everything must take into account not only the fact that a person is ill and what his condition is, but also what this epidemic will do in health care as a whole. And the evil that goes on galloping: if our health care limps at some point, when it starts to be so many sick and it can't carry it, then there will be very bad consequences. So there are a lot of worries here. And I think we'll get a good report and a statement on this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u26	Thank you. Thank you. — Representative Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u27	Mr President! I will continue with that speech. With further restrictions on restaurants and restaurants by means of blocking measures, it is also important for the government to adopt this compensation legislation to compensate the restaurants. Now, these aid models — prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy — have been thought to be implemented as part of the cost support for companies affected by the existing closure measures, and this is a source of horrendous feelings in many restaurants. Why? Because many restaurant entrepreneurs and restaurants have not received the cost support in the last year, because there are different areas of blindness that affect the fact that not all, although the closure measures have been exceptionally violently targeted, have received the euro. Secondly, the fact that these support measures are to be launched only at the beginning of May tells us that we do not understand where this is really going, because one entrepreneur just today was sending a message that the wish would be for automatic payment of compensation for the restaurant closure as soon as possible. For many companies in the sector, it will be quite a task to make a payment if their application or payment is only opened in May. Then there's this take away, too. The Minister pointed out that take-away sales are still possible, but how will it be allocated to this support during the blockade, because it will increase that sales, and if the restaurant now sells take-away to keep its customers satisfied and, so to speak, to put out the hunger of its customers, will they then be punished for it? In some cases, if there has been turnover and sales, it is considered that there is no need for that cost support. Restaurants, however, do this take-away sales with a full plus minus zero, and some even in a way that is completely unprofitable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u28	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u29	Mr President! I also took the floor when I noticed that in southern Ostrobothnia, the opening of restaurants after this lock is anticipated and that the health authorities are thanking the region and the restaurant owners for their responsible activities. In this context, I would like to quote the statement of Chief Medical Officer Matti Rekiaro from the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia from Seinäjoki: “We are confident that the opening of restaurant activities does not result in significant illness. There have been very few restaurant infections in South Ostrobothnia. From our point of view, the closure of restaurant activities would not even have been necessary, but it came because we were at the status of the acceleration phase at the time of the decision.” This really is a place for reflection at the end of the day when we look at these status areas. Thus, according to the respected health authority, restaurants in South Ostrobothnia were closed down safely, even if this was not necessary for the management of the epidemic. For this reason, it is not in vain to say that we in this Chamber are emphasising precision and timeliness and proportionality if the health authorities in South Ostrobothnia, convincing people, here tell us that the restaurants in South Ostrobothnia were closed for three weeks in vain.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u30	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u31	Mr President! This situation, which the representative has just described as precision, does not take into account the nature of this virus at this point. As far as I know, the Turku group, which caused a lot of problems now in Turku, had come from another province, and at this point, when we talk about this kind of precision, if the point is that every region is viewed according to its infection rate, then there would certainly be more and more places where the situation is better, as it is, but this local health authority does not take into account the fact that at any time there can be someone from another province who will then explode its infection there and it can spread invisiblely, as many times has done. And when this precision is defined, then let us look at the whole region and the epidemiological situation in the whole region — this is where the whole of Finland is. I believe that this has been the basis and reason for the fact that some small municipalities here and there have not been taken into account at this point, and here comes this kind of conflict with the health authority. But it would be very valuable if we were to get together now in this communication so that one mouth would be able to talk about these things, because the public's confidence in the decision-makers at all disappears at this point and the ability to maintain a will to fight the corona is weakened. It would now be terribly important to be able to find that common note in order to overcome this epidemic or at least to get people vaccinated so much that the disease situation would somehow improve and make life more bearable. Thank you, Mr President, for keeping the debate going. I know it's almost 11:00.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u32	Thanks for the thanks. I can handle it if you can. — Representative Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u33	Mr President! In this situation, it is indeed important that we have clearer, simpler information and also anticipating how to do it. Indeed, last week we had a debate in the Chamber on the fact that the government is opening restaurants after this week in such a way that time is limited, and now less than a week we are discussing it here in the referral debate on the so-called total blockade. The areas are different sizes. If we leave here from Helsinki to Seinäjoki, there are four provinces in between, but in the same region in our constituency, when we go from Kalajoki to Kuusamo and cut a little bit through Kainuu, there are only two provinces. Therefore, the strictness of these restrictions, the necessity and also the consideration of this disease situation in the risk of spread and agitation, both in the worse and in the better direction, would be important for the fairness of these government proposals and also for the public's sense of justice. When you take this into account — and I say this in a side statement — how our borders have leaked over the last few weeks, it really does test the sense of justice that the virus has been released into this country but that the activities of the children are restricted, that restaurant activity is restricted, and especially if you think about the full closure of the lunch restaurant, which may be the only social interaction for many lonely people in the immediate environment. As a young person working in the restaurant industry, I myself know how many lonely people that meal was the only highlight of the day at the local lunch restaurant. Maybe there were some other conversations at the store register. In that sense, making it possible to eat lunch would also be positive for many in terms of the resilience of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u34	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. The debate was suspended at the previous plenary session today. — Mr Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u35	Thank you, Speaker! This debate remained when Minister Lintilä considered these issues relating to cost support. I would now like to add that last spring, however, the situation was new and different and that is why it is good to look, for example, at this period of ownership from a new angle. Mr President! Today we have been through these new laws and restrictions on restaurants and businesses and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has wasted many weeks on these issues — and we will continue to do so if necessary 24/7, if the interests of the country so require, it is quite clear — but I would like to repeat in this debate the nuance that when entrepreneurs, businesses and employees are now following these changes in restrictions, it may be difficult to keep up with what is happening. And I think it is now extremely important for the government to manage this communication effectively, visibly, to deploy all the channels. What are the criteria, how to apply for these subsidies — once more a review, and how to start off customer-oriented on these issues. Companies and entrepreneurs are in a situation such as that time and energy go very well to maintain their own business and to think about how to deal with it the next day. In this context, the communication of the authorities and the fact that entrepreneurs have access to the information that can also be made available from the economic point of view of society to this difficult situation is highlighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u36	Congressman Kopra is gone. — Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u37	Mr President! Two points in this connection. The first is that, although the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said to the previous motion that there should be a withdrawal period, just as Mr Sankelo, my colleague from the Committee on Economic Affairs, said, the abolition of this must be considered, because compensation must be possible from the first day of the closure and without its greater fines. If we decide to close the restaurant, we will also make up for the time it is closed. The second point related to this is this 0.7, i.e. 70% of fixed costs. I think it's unreasonable. It should be 100%. If we close down that restaurant or any business, we'll have to compensate for it. We have taken a huge debt, and I do not think this is the point where we are thinking about those percentages other than that it really is 100%. And if it were up to me alone to decide these things, I would give 110 percent, because we have actually done more harm with this lock than just those fixed costs or wages. We've done a lot of damage to this entrepreneur. Entrepreneurship in Finland is already difficult, and few Finns dare to try — Swedes do it better for some reason — and the fact that we use different kinds of blocking measures to close restaurants or industries does not encourage anyone. There's got to be a carrot in here. Fortunately, however, I do not decide on these matters alone, because I would probably be one of those who sometimes talk about being a ‘smoker of money’. This is where I would have put a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u38	Representative Hopsu absent, representative Kettunen absent, ledamot Löfström borta. — Representative Winter road on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u39	Mr President! Indeed, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has prepared a model of support for a reasonable remuneration for companies. When I discussed this cost support with the entrepreneurs and today we have also had these restaurants' complete closures in the referral debate, just now, a few companies have asked me questions that I would have liked to have asked when the Minister was still there, and even though this debate was moved here late in the day, I am asking you, though the Minister is no longer here, understandably. Indeed, it would be desirable for clear rules to be laid down in relation to these cost subsidies and to exclude them. Is this possible closure aid for restaurants linked to the criteria for granting this previous cost support, i.e. are they both in a way together? Entrepreneurs have also asked whether they reduce each other, i.e. if they have previously received cost support, whether they can also receive exclusion aid, and vice versa, if they have not previously been able to obtain cost support on the basis of a criterion, can they still receive that exclusion aid? And so it cannot be that, if no cost support has been received, then there would not be any exclusion aid either. This question came from this text of today’s Government, which states that ‘the proposal for a model of aid is being discussed by the Parliament and is being implemented as part of the cost support’. In other words, this aid, the compensation for the companies affected by the existing closure measures, would be implemented as part of the cost support — what does that mean? Why is there no direct support for restaurants, for example, through this negative value added tax, which the Coalition Party presented here last spring? For example, it would have taken January of last year to see how much the restaurant has cost in that situation. If it had paid up to EUR 8000, the restaurant would have been given back EUR 8000 for the month, i.e. the amount of VAT that the restaurant has paid to society, and it would therefore be known what the volume would have been for normal operations. In addition, about this take-away sale: is taking-away sales going to penalise entrepreneurs in order to reduce exclusion aid? Restaurants now sell take away, as I said before, to keep their customers happy and to put out the hunger of their customers,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u41	Tack, värderade talman! We were really going to talk about this about seven to eight hours ago, so maybe I'll do a shorter version. These various points have already been made, and I can assure you that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will certainly continue to discuss both the amount of support and the guarantee away. It's about time and stuff. I myself am very much in line with Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-23-ps-28.u42	For my part, on this point, Mr President, I fully understand: There have been many officials in various ministries who have prepared them. When we talk about government proposals here in Parliament with our colleagues, and perhaps sometimes we criticise them a little, tightening them forward, then at the same time we really appreciate the work of the officials and the hours they have put here. In the same breath, I could say that here in Parliament, too, officials have been constantly available to us and have done excellent work. Similarly, the President has been able to carry this speech and deal with it. We sometimes have to take these forward late at night so that we can get things moving again in the next 24 hours in the committees, and that legislation will then be possible. No one needs to be patted on the back at this point, but thanks are really in order. In the same breath, I could say that I would also like to thank all the citizens who send self-messages and are able to support us but also each other in this difficult situation. So thank you very much for all the parties involved.
