ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 26/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2021. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u2	Madam President! I propose that Parliament adopt this law in the form of opposition objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u3	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Automotive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2021. In the debate, Ville Kauunto Kaisa Juuso, supported by Mr Juuso, has tabled a motion of protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u5	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u6	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2021. With the support of Kaisa Juuso Arja Juvonen, the debate has been followed by an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u7	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u8	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2021. In the course of the debate, Mr Mauri Peltokangas, supported by Mr Kaisa Juuso, has tabled two statements of opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u9	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u10	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2021. In the debate, Paula Risikko Ville, supported by Mrs Kauunto, has made an objection to the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u11	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u12	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, the measures will be decided at the sole reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2021. In the debate Jari Koskela, supported by Jukka Mäkynen, has tabled an objection 1 proposal for the adoption of measures 152/2020 vp and 9/2021 vp and a statement of objections 1. In addition, with the support of Mr Östman, Mr Essayah Peter Östman has tabled three motions for statements under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u13	Finally, the proposals for initiatives and statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u14	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2021. In the debate, Rami Lehto, supported by Jukka Mäkynen, has proposed that the legislative proposals 1st and 3rd and 6th respectively. rejected. In addition, Rami Lehto, supported by Jukka Mäkynen, has submitted a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u15	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u16	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. It is now decided, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 8/2021 vp, on the report. The debate starts with a presentation by Mr Niiko, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is no round of group talks. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed five minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take no longer than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u17	Thank you, Mr President. In accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act, the Government has provided Parliament with a report on Finland's continued participation in the ORI mission in Iraq. The operation will continue with approximately 75 soldiers from January to December next year. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has consulted experts and adopted a report on this subject. The Committee on Defence also issued an opinion to the committee. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered that the procedure for reporting was justified, given that there was no clear UN mandate for the operation and that it was a high-risk operation. In discussing the Government's report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs studied extensively the situation in Iraq, both politically, economically and in terms of security. In particular, the security situation was carefully addressed, as the stability of Iraq does not only affect the overall situation of the country. The impact extends to the whole Gulf region and all the way to Europe and Finland. Stability is also vital to the safe operating conditions of the Finnish population. The security situation in Iraq is weak and, according to the committee's assessment, constitutes a significant threat to the safety of Finnish soldiers. In its report, the Committee therefore stresses the importance of self-protection of troops. The Defence Forces have so far succeeded in guaranteeing self-preservation of troops serving in Iraq. Mr President! So now a decision will be taken to extend the operation for 12 months. The final phase of the operation, i.e. the fourth phase, is under way, the main objective of which is to stabilise the security situation. The total estimated duration of this phase is between 12 and 24 months. The report shows that the guidelines for the continuation of the operation are expected to be in place during this period. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it obvious that the ORI operation will gradually be reduced. The reduction of the mission is to be carried out in parallel with the extension of the NATO training mission in Iraq, the NMI. According to the report, Finland is preparing to shift the focus of military crisis management participation in Iraq from ORI to NMI, which Finland has already participated in by three soldiers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs estimates that Finland's participation in military crisis management is currently at a very low level. Participation in NATO-led operations is also low with the end of Operation RS in Afghanistan. The committee therefore considered the record of the NMI's plans for strengthening participation to be justified. When planning operations, the lessons learned in Afghanistan must be taken into account. From the outset, an exit strategy should be included in the plans, i.e. to outline the objectives of participation that can result in a decision to participate. The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes that it is clear from expert consultations that the stabilisation of Iraq needs broad and long-term support. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the assessment to be correct. The committee adds that although the need for international support for Iraq is obvious, the international community must also pursue Iraq's own responsibilities. In its hearings, the committee examined the various ways in which Finland is involved in supporting Iraq in a comprehensive way. The committee also pointed out in its report that Finland should make use of its diplomatic presence in Iraq. Finland must make determined efforts to establish arrangements to facilitate return and return cooperation with Iraq for asylum seekers who have received a negative and final decision. The report showed that no progress has been made in this regard. Finally, Mr President, the report shows that the presence of international troops in Iraq is a difficult issue for internal policy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore stresses that the conditions for participation must be constantly assessed. Rapid changes in the operating environment should also be prepared. Here are a few withdrawals from the committee's findings on this issue. In the end, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it unanimously justified that Finland continue to participate in the ORI operation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u18	And at this point, I give the floor to Minister Kaikkonen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on Defence set out valuable views on Finland's continued participation in security sector training cooperation in Iraq as part of the International Coalition for ISIS OR operation. Thank you for your balanced views. The situation in Iraq has changed considerably since the International Coalition started supporting the Iraqi Government and security forces six years ago. Isis has been declared defeated by its loss of land in Iraq. The health security threat posed by the Korona epidemic in Iraq continues. Despite the country’s infection rates, activity at all bases has continued and the transmission clusters have been managed. The operation of the International Coalition and the ORI mission can be considered to be quite successful. The OIR mission has also entered the fourth and final phase. However, this does not mean that the work in Iraq has been completed. The continuation of the ORI with the current strength is justified. That is also the conclusion reached by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this report. Finland is preparing to gradually shift the focus of military crisis management in Iraq to NATO Mission Ira. The NMI complements the efforts of the ISIS coalition and other international actors, focusing on strategic advice and support for the reform of the Iraqi defence sector. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers the plans for strengthening NMI participation to be justified both from the point of view of strengthening Finland's overall military crisis management participation and also from the point of view of partnership with NATO. The formation of NATO forces has been slow, and Finland has not yet been informed of how our initial offer for additional troops will be viewed. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has made a perceptive assessment, if I may say so, that Finland's support for Iraq must be comprehensive. In the future, more attention must be paid to the links between international activities such as military and civilian crisis management and mediation, humanitarian aid and development aid. Mr President! The political situation in Iraq has continued to be unstable and the security situation is fragile. As a result, special attention will continue to be paid to the protection of the troops. Although Isis no longer owns land, it still has supporters and sleepers in Iraq. According to an estimate made early in the year, between 8,000 and 16,000 ISIS fighters would still be present in the region of Iraq and Syria. Despite his lost position, Isis is still capable of carrying out terrorist attacks. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses, social development, the provision of basic services, the reduction of regional inequalities and the improvement and improvement of the prospects for the future are key to work to prevent ISIS from taking root in Iraq again and to stabilise the country on a long-term basis. One important part of this work is the stabilisation and security of ISIS-exempted areas in these areas. Without stability and security, the return of internally displaced persons will be difficult. One of the tasks of the OIR mission is to develop the Iraqi army's own capacity to maintain security. I agree with the committee's opinion that, in addition to international support, it is important that Iraq takes ownership and assumes responsibility for its development. This is the only way to ensure that the aid is effective and effective in the long term. The elections in Iraq took place in October and the formation of a new government is now under way. The presence of international troops in Iraq is a sensitive issue for internal policy. However, it is estimated that the new Iraqi regime will also take the view that, despite the increase in the capacity of Iraq's own security forces, international forces are still needed. Mr President! Finally, Finland's participation in international crisis management is part of our country's international responsibility and the building of common security. The threat of ISIS is met by international cooperation, and in this, Finland also assumes its responsibilities. I would like to thank the committee and the committees for their balanced views.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u20	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u21	Madam President! Peace-keeping contributes to the stabilisation of conflict countries and contributes to the prevention of terrorism and the root causes of migration, we all know that. Thus, Finland has been participating in the OIR operation since 2015, and our work has been important. Further involvement in the mission is justified, and this was also stated jointly and unanimously in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. At the same time, however, we also pointed out in the report that the conditions for participation should be constantly assessed and, at the same time, provision should be made for rapid changes in the operating environment, and this was also raised by Mr Niikko in his own speech. The issue of the bilateral return agreement has been on the agenda for a lot and a long time, and it should finally be put right. I would also like to clarify whether these bilateral negotiations are still taking place. There was no response to this in the referral debate on this issue. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u22	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u23	Madam President! I am in favour of participating in this operation. Finland has also supported Iraq financially in other ways. Even in this context, I cannot accept that Iraq, contrary to international law, does not accept its own citizens who have received a negative decision on their asylum application in Finland, for example — that is to say, accept those who voluntarily return but do not accept so-called ‘removable’. Mr Pelkonen also drew attention to this point and asked the Minister an important question. Now the Greens have come up with the idea that some 3,000 asylum seekers who arrived mainly from Iraq to Finland a few years ago who have received a negative decision on their application because they are not in need of international protection — neither in the opinion of the Finnish Immigration Service nor in the opinion of the Finnish judiciary — should be given a residence permit in Finland as a one-off solution, i.e. after the Finnish Immigration Service, the Administrative Court and, if necessary, the Supreme Administrative Court have found that there are no grounds for granting international protection for these people. These are people who, despite this, have remained in the country. So it is mainly Iraqis who, in defiance of the Finnish legal order, have remained in Finland, even though they have no legal right to be in our country. On the contrary, they have re-manufactured and re-manufactured asylum applications and received a negative solution over and over again. If we were now to do with these people, mainly the Iraqis, as the Greens have come up with the task — apparently Minister Ohio first and Minister Mikkonen now — that we would give them all a residence permit in Finland as a one-off solution, then we would reward these people for defying the Finnish legal order and remaining illegally in our country. Secondly, such a solution would undermine our entire asylum system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u26	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u27	Madam President! About a month ago, the Government gave Parliament a report under the Military Crisis Management Act on Finland's continued participation in security sector training cooperation in the Iraqi OR mission. Participation would start on 1.1.22 and continue until the end of the year. Finland has participated in the tasks in the region for many years. In September 2014, an international coalition against ISIS was established to support Iraq in the fight against ISIS. Finland joined the coalition in the same year. The military activities of the coalition against ISIS were launched within the framework of this OR operation, which Finland has participated in since 2015. The NATO Training Mission in Iraq began operations in autumn 2018. Its aim is to support the development of the Iraqi military training system and the reform of the security sector, mainly through strategic training and advice. Finland has participated in the training mission as a NATO partner country since December 2018. The ISIS regime fell in 2019, but the organization itself has not fallen. There are still many violent radical cells organized by the organization and they are constantly planning new attacks. The reform of its security sector is central to internal stability. The focus is on bringing the various armed groups into the security forces under the Iraqi central government in a coordinated manner. These groups include, in particular, paramilitary forces outside the central government and individual Shiamilit groups outside the control of the Iraqi Government. International support is still needed, in particular to support the Iraqi security forces, to develop the security sector in the country and to stabilise the security situation. Mr President! Although Iraq is now more secure than it is in ISIS' reign of terror, there are destroyed residential areas and widespread social turmoil. The present administration of the country is characterised by corruption at all levels of society, leading to the lowest levels of civil service. Citizens' confidence in the justice system is weak. In addition, the tensions of Shia and Sunni are still deep. Finland and the European Union must carefully consider what kind of support is given to the various actors in the country and where the support actually flows. The objective of the so-called fourth phase of the ORI mission is to stabilise the security situation, which is estimated to last between 12 and 24 months. It can even be said to be hopelessly optimistic in a country with an extremely fragile and unstable social system. According to the report, the objective in the future is to reverse the ORI operation and concentrate its operations on NATO. The reason for this is that it is not necessary to maintain two parallel training missions. One larger NATO operation will certainly also be useful from the point of view of political-military dialogue. The results of the coalition have been good in many respects, and the training always serves the trainer. Finnish troops have gained experience from Iraq, which also benefits national defence capabilities and provides new tools to combat Islamic radicalisation. Mr President! The Finns continue to support the participation in the OIR mission because it plays an important role in the fight against international terrorism and ISIS. The stabilisation of Iraq is in the interests of Finland and also of the world as a whole. By improving the security situation in Iraq, we are also tackling the problems of mass migration. People should be helped in their home country to achieve conditions that do not need to escape to Europe and, for example, to us here in Finland. In this situation, it is the most sustainable and permanent way of helping everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u28	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u29	Mr President! A few weeks ago, we discussed the current situation in the Chamber in Iraq and the presence of Finnish crisis management in the country. Even at that time, Finland’s participation in the security sector training and advice mission in Iraq until the end of 2022 received support, as did the committee. The presence in Iraq is an indication of Finland's efforts to combat and eradicate international terrorism, but the preservation of peace must be seen in a larger context. Stability in Iraq will have a wider impact on the security of the whole Gulf region and Europe, including Finland, as previous speakers have already said. It is also important for the presence and security of Finnish troops. Despite progress, stability and peace in the country have not yet taken root as the backbone of society that would support it independently. Isis does not control the land, but its still sleeping branches are skilled at exploiting the desperation of citizens and gathering strength. On the other hand, the low turnout in the October parliamentary elections anticipates internal political conflicts. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs points out in its report, the impact of political tensions on the conditions for the presence of international troops must be closely monitored. This is highlighted in the NMI operation led by NATO, for which Finland is also prepared to shift its focus. The final decision to extend the NMI was taken in February 2021 and is to be implemented gradually in parallel with the reduction of the ORI. In a situation where the presence of international troops in Iraq is a difficult issue for internal policy, it is all the more important that support measures respond to the needs identified by the Iraqi Government. It is therefore essential that the NMI extension is prepared in close cooperation with the ORI and the Iraqi authorities. Planning must be based on identifying Iraq's educational needs and avoiding duplication. Last time we had a debate in the Chamber, almost every group contribution stressed the importance of extensive reconstruction work. In addition to military crisis management, care must be taken to strengthen democracy and increase people's chances of living. The eradication of corruption plays a key role in supporting economic growth. The work to stabilise Iraq is therefore still ongoing, and the premature withdrawal of troops could also have fatal consequences in Iraq. However, the conditions for participation must be constantly assessed and rapid changes in the operating environment should be anticipated. In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs points out, among other things, the self-protection of troops and the minimisation of security risks. It is also essential to draw up the objectives of the mission, against which presence and duration can be considered. When assessing the presence, consideration should be given to strengthening society as a large-scale entity. Coordination between international operations and different actors creates the best conditions for sustainable results. The work for democracy and human rights is a seed that will remain incubating once the security forces have left.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u30	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u31	Mr President! Finland must consider ways of increasing pressure on the Iraqi Government to take responsibility for the situation in its country. There is also the question of a return policy for Iraqi citizens. The Iraqis were Finland's largest asylum seeker group in the 2015 refugee crisis. An effective return policy is a prerequisite for the functioning of our asylum system. Finland’s financial and other assistance to Iraq has been extensive. It is intolerable that Finland does not have a return agreement with Iraq and that Iraq has refused to accept its own citizens back. This cannot continue. Our asylum system cannot function fairly without an effective return policy. In this context, Mr Zyskowicz made important comments on the proposals made by the ministers, Mr Ohio and Mr Mikkone. Mr President! We cannot remain illegally in the country, it would destroy the entire asylum system and our ability to help those in real need. In addition, Finland's financial support for Iraq must be conditional on the country receiving a negative asylum decision in accordance with its citizens' international law and obligations. I ask the government: What has the government done to get the return agreement into force and to ensure that the returns work? How has it been promoted that cooperation between Finland and Iraq is effective and based on obligations?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u32	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u33	Madam President! The political situation in Iraq is weak. The security situation is fragile and the economic situation is very challenging, which means that there are enough difficulty factors. However, it is quite clear that international forces are needed both in the fight against ISIS and terrorism and in the training and reform of Iraq's own security sector. As has already been heard in several speeches, since 2015, the crisis management and peacekeeping operation in Iraq, which has been operating since then, has also produced the desired results. Isis has lost land managed by it, and five million Iraqis have been able to return to their homeland. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also went over the substance of this operation, the whole of the Committee, in other words, agreed that this should be continued for next year, since it will strengthen our country's foreign and security policy interests. At the same time, there was also concern about the self-protection of Finnish soldiers. In this Chamber, we often talk about effectiveness. The limited resources that we allocate to different targets should produce impressive results. It is quite clear that when we talk about crisis management operations we need a comprehensive strategy. We must ensure that these forms of aid to Iraq are also examined consistently as a whole in order to achieve results. In addition to international cooperation, we must remind Iraq that it must also take responsibility for its own internal security, for its stabilisation and for its reconstruction. Without a stabilisation of the security situation, it will not be possible to build a stable society. Finland made a pledge of support to Iraq in February 2018. This amount was EUR 10 million for stabilisation measures, mine clearance, humanitarian aid, the improvement of the position of women and democratic development. I do not know what the results have been, but I hope that one day we will be able to get a report on the situation of girls and women, for example, in Iraq today. When we talk about reconstruction, we must also take into account the fact that private sector investment plays a very important role. Finland has had traditional trade relations with Iraq, a good reputation for construction, education, health care. There will certainly also be seed in it for future cooperation. When it comes to improving effectiveness, it should be remembered that more conditionality is also an opportunity to achieve results. A number of speakers have already pointed out that efforts have been made to work together on return agreements for those who have received a negative asylum decision. There have been attempts in several governments, as far as I know, at least two, but there is still no result which most of us here wish to see. Now that we have an embassy in Baghdad, diplomatic presence can make it easier to open the right doors, but you have to remember to knock at a fast pace. Mr President! The day after tomorrow will be exactly 65 years since official Finland decided to send the first Finnish peacekeepers at the request of the UN to secure world peace in the Middle East in order to resolve the Suez crisis. These courageous pioneers have been role models for younger peacekeepers and, according to all probability, trenders on Finland's journey to the Great Power of Peacekeeping. In our work, the Parliamentary Committee on Crisis Management stressed that we need a long-term and clearer vision of Finland's priorities for peace-keeping and crisis management. This is certainly a goal that this House shares. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u34	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u35	Madam President! We Finns support this participation in the ORI operation. We often stress that our primary objective in immigration policy is to put an end to all immigration for humanitarian reasons and to shift the focus to help on the ground, and I believe that this operation is also supported by the OR. Military crisis management is one example of concrete measures that can be taken in the countries of origin, and the advantage of military crisis management is that it is at best useful not only for the host country but also for the country that participates in such crisis management or in the training of state security forces there. The host country receives security and stability, and the crisis management state can test in practice the practices and doctrines that the country would have to apply in the event of a crisis affecting its own country. In a country such as Finland enjoying a long time of peace, there is no real situation — or, fortunately, no need — to practice. The closest to real situations can be found under the circumstances of these crisis management operations, where military threats are not always just a practice. Since 2014, Finland has participated in an anti-ISIS operation in Iraq. The ORI operation has started in 2015, and I believe that it will end in about a year and then proceed to the NMI mission, which is a NATO-led mission in Iraq. In that way this is also right in a certain way for our reserve and the Defence Forces staff a good thing that when we participate in something, then there will be no such interruption: we have this kind of good progression in this crisis management operation, because at the moment we have quite little men stationed in various crisis management operations. And after this has been dealt with, perhaps the most important concern of our country about these men we have sent is that there is enough self-protection there. In 2019 the Isis regime fell, but there are still these Isis cells that can pose a risk or blow to these men we sent, and I would like to conclude by saying that I myself have been there for a while in Iraq when my father was working there, and that was the time when Iraq and Iran were fighting each other, and I myself remember it as a perhaps underdeveloped country compared to the West, but in a way that at the time all the workers worked there. In my opinion, there was no unemployment at all. That country was different, it was Hussein's time, and in some way I also feel obliged that the Western countries take part in these operations because they went there to export democracy and there the dictator left the scene. And now that democracy has gone, yes, we must try here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u36	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u37	Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has done a good job in this report, and thank you also for your important speech to the Minister. The committee notes that these consultations have made it clear that Iraq needs wide-ranging and long-term support to support society, to normalise the security situation and for the reconstruction project — that is what it is. Although this need for international support for Iraq is obvious, it is true, as the Minister also pointed out, that the international community must also shoulder its own responsibilities. Even massive support for international cooperation for Iraq will not be effective unless Iraq itself takes the greatest role and responsibility in developing the country in a way that takes account of all social groups. This is quite clear, even though we all understand its great challenge. President! Of course, different forms of Finnish support should be considered as a whole and coordination between different forms of support must be ensured, as in everything. The effectiveness of Finland’s participation should indeed be carefully assessed. I also very much welcome the fact that the committee considers that the continuation of Finland's participation in the ORI mission is justified. However, the prerequisites for participation must of course be assessed here too, and rapid changes in the operating environment need to be prepared. By participating in the mission, Finland contributes to supporting the fight against international terrorism, including ISIS. Participation is an important part of Finland’s comprehensive support for the development of Iraq. Finland’s participation in international crisis management is part of international responsibility and also in building common security. President! Representative Veijo Niemi said well that the stabilisation of Iraq is also in Finland's interest, especially in aid in the country of destination. It is hard to say when it will actually come true, but perhaps that day will also be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u38	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u39	Mr President! Finland supports the fight against international terrorism. We support the fight against ISIS by participating in the ORI mission in Iraq. In this way, we will support the overall development of Iraq. If the situation in Iraq can be further stabilised, the migratory pressure on Europe will be reduced. It is also in Finland's interest if conditions in Iraq develop in a calmer and more predictable direction. At present, the internal security situation is still very fragile and there are more than one million internal refugees. Isis is still able to organise devastating terrorist attacks in the region, even though it has not had land in Iraq since 2017. The illegal Shiamilitians supported by Iran pose an important threat to the internal stability of Iraq. Attacks on international coalition bases have mainly been carried out on a monthly basis by rockets and drones. The root causes of terrorism and social instability must continue to be influenced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u40	Congressman Hokkonen is gone. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u41	Mr President! We have heard a good debate here on this continuation of the OIR mission in Iraq, and I thank Parliament for its agreement on this matter. Well, this is certainly in everyone's interest, namely that we understand that military crisis management is a very good way for Finland to contribute to the stabilisation of various crisis situations. Now that we are dealing in concrete terms with an international terrorist threat that goes all the way to Europe and Finland, we need to be involved in this matter in order to remedy the situation. Mr President! I would still have liked to draw attention to what has been talking to us here in Parliament for many years. This applies to the return of those who have received negative asylum decisions mentioned by Mr Zyskowicz as well. This is what the previous government and this government have tried to promote, but it has not made any progress. After all, at the moment, it seems that only those who have been convicted, apparently convicted, will receive Iraqis in Iraq, but this kind of forced return for others has not been achieved. Well, how can we make progress on this point — that is a good question. Neither the Minister nor the Government nor the Committee have a direct answer to that question. Instead, we parties each have our own views on how to promote this issue. The True Finns have suggested that those who are illegally present in the country and refuse to return voluntarily should be detained. This would ensure that there are no people in our country who are free to move and who have also been regarded as a security threat to this country in part. We know, however, that we have more than one hundred people free on the streets of Finland, which are under constant control. I do not think it is acceptable that even such persons should not be detained and thus motivate their voluntary return to the country from which they have come without authorisation. Mr President! Surely the important thing now is what is learned from the Afghan operation, that in the future we must have some sort of exit strategy to end the operation, and I believe that Minister Kaikkonen has also spent his thoughts on this issue with his own friends, which is what Finland's exit strategy will be for Iraq in the future. We cannot find ourselves in a situation where we are 20 years in a country and we do not know how it will end and when it will end. We need to have goals, we need to have a clear red thread in these operations. Mr President! Thank you again for the unanimous vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u42	And at this point, Minister Kaikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u43	Mr President! Thank you for your good speeches and questions. This issue of the return agreement, on which more than one representative spoke, goes a little to the territory of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, according to my information, these negotiations have been continued by both Finland and other EU countries, but the result of the negotiations has not been obtained, which means that the work must continue. Mr Zyskowicz also raised an issue within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior in relation to this investigation. On that subject, what you have raised, I believe that there are different views within the government and that there may not be a common vision, but I think we will return to that at some point. This report itself does not deal with asylum procedures. More than one representative then referred to the NMI operation — once, of course, the committee has also dealt with the matter — at least representatives Niemi, Salonen, Mäenpää, could have been someone else. That is where the progress of this operation has really been slow and we still do not have a more precise timetable or further steps ahead of us, but we are waiting for it to become clearer and then come back to us. Representative Salonen: the operation is therefore based on a request for support from the Iraqi Government. The representative, Mr Virolainen, stressed, among other things, the issue of self-protection, and also the representative: That's what the top of the hill was referring to. As important as it is, attention has been paid to this issue. For example, protective structures and shrapnel shields have been strengthened, the security and preparedness of the base have been improved, other measures have been taken — it is, of course, important that adequate security can be achieved there. But it must always be said that there is always a risk in any case. Representative Mäenpää also highlighted this valuable field experience of the Kriha operation. This is another important aspect, too, that our own defence also serves when Finnish men and women gain valuable experience in these tasks, and it also serves our own defence capability through this. To Mr Kivisaari, I would also like to say that the education and advice provided by Finns is intended to give Iraqis the capacity to take responsibility for their own country and to take responsibility for its safety. And when we make sufficient progress here, there may then be an answer to Mr Nikon's question about when to go out. At least you can leave it with a good conscience when the country is stable enough. It's not quite there yet. These processes are slow, but let's try to keep the direction right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u44	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u45	Mr President! I have to add to my previous speech on the functioning of returns and return agreements, more generally on this operation and why this operation must be supported. Peacekeeping and crisis management are an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Finland’s participation in international crisis management operations is justified by the promotion of social peace and the strengthening of the rule of law and democracy. By strengthening the rule of law in Iraq and stabilising the security situation, we are building conditions for lasting peace. We will thus influence the root causes of international terrorism and migration. By participating in crisis management operations, we will also improve the international interoperability of our defence, which will benefit domestic defence. All of this contributes to strengthening Finland’s national security. That is also the whole issue of our security cooperation in Iraq. As stated in the report, the intention is that Finland will continue to participate in the ORI operation by some 75 soldiers in 22 C.E., and this is, in principle, a highly supported line.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u46	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u47	Mr President! The Minister was able to leave, but I also wanted to think a little bit about what Mr Zyskowicz pointed out, that, while we have a considerable number of people who come here from Iraq without a residence permit, and I think they are then illegally in the country, and I believe that it is also in their way that they are violating the law in it and that it is therefore a criminal activity, yet at the same time these Green Ministers or some of them have suggested that these illegal people in our country should have been granted a residence permit, and I do not think that this is possible. At the same time, Minister Haavisto said in an interview that the European Union still has a return agreement with Iraq and that it is possible to return criminals and voluntarily return them. I would have liked to have had funts here and asked how hard that crime should be. Is it not already a criminal practice that there are people here illegally without a residence permit? Should we not simply begin to return these people on this basis, since the EU has such an agreement and in it Iraq accepts criminals and those who return voluntarily? In my opinion, the government would have the opportunity to initiate this action as a matter of urgency and to return these people to Iraq. I would have liked to ask the Minister about this from his point of view, but unfortunately he was able to leave. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u48	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u49	Madam President! This security sector training mission, which Finland is now continuing in Iraq, enjoys unanimous support, as has been said many times. There are at least two dimensions to this operation itself: one is that there is a clear support for Iraqis — this type of cooperation in education strengthens their security sector. But vice versa, as has been pointed out here, this also strengthens Finnish international participation and participation in such operations, and it also gives us new knowledge and control of matters. In this context, however, I would like to say what is important to note when we talk about Iraq, that the internal situation in that country is still very fragile: it is regionally tense, not stable, and there are strong internal cross-pressures. And in this respect, of course, the Iraqi Government itself bears the greatest responsibility for that situation, and we must ask for that responsibility. It is important that a spirit of compromise be found as naturally as possible in the country that these three largest groups of people who are also regionally distinct from each other — Shiites, Sunnis and then the Kurds — genuinely experience its communality very substantially. Then there is the very important issue of the inflamment of this internal situation in Iraq insofar as it is essential for us to be able to emphasise this culture of impunity when we begin to build an agreement in society. This is especially the fate of the siestas. Nadia Murad is a Nobel Peace Prize-winning Iraqi nisei, a biography of which we have also been familiar — she herself visited us to tell us — and it is shocking enough to read that it is absolutely clear that she calls this genocide the fate of the siens, and that is what it really is. And there can be no impunity in this regard. These people who have committed these crimes — Isis, above all, the staff of this caliphate — must be brought to justice. There is no way to seek that harmony and inner peace, the reconciliation, into that country if justice does not go through everything. These are important starting points when we start building that new Iraq, and that is why I wanted to stress that this responsibility lies with the Iraqi Government, which is particularly great. Of course, we Finns must also support this from our side.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u50	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u51	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to speak briefly on this matter. As we know, this operation in Iraq is now under way, and I would just like to say that the fight against international terrorism is best done as Finland has done: to participate in various operations which are carried out jointly with other peoples. Then the best result will be achieved, and it will also be better for us to try to combat those crises where they occur. Of course, Finland's resources are limited. We must admit that, but we must also remember that, in cooperation with others, we are much bigger than we are. Finland has a long tradition of various peacekeeping missions and this type of mission. This is a very important international cooperation for us. It is also worth remembering, of course, that: The ISIS has still not been won; its limitation and the fight against international terrorism is the most important issue for all nations, and it is also a matter for Finland, which will certainly be emphasised in the training operation. It's a place where you need expertise. The knowledge that Finland has may then be exported there. And most importantly, as Minister of Defence Antti Kaikkonen has just said in his speech, the safety of these Finnish soldiers involved in the operation. Of course, they are fully aware of the risk involved in this work, but as we have just heard, the Minister rightly said that there has been a great deal of attention paid to safety and to the various equipment, that safety can be guaranteed as well as possible in that operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u52	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u53	Madam President! Minister Kaikkonen has done a good job as Minister of Defence — as I said in yesterday's debate, we have had a good Minister of Defence. These issues have been taken forward by the Finnish side ahead of us and the work that has been carried out in these international operations has also been continued, and this continuation of the cooperation on education, the continuation of the OR mission, is justifiable. As a second comment, I would like to mention the reception of Iraqis previously raised by Mr Zyskowicz in Finland, or the agreement that those who do not receive asylum here and do not need asylum should, of course, receive Iraq as nationals of their own country. Of course, this should be put right on the principle of reciprocity, so that Iraq assumes responsibility for its own citizens here, while other countries are also safeguarding and responding to the stability of their country, including in relation to this training operation. This is one that will keep the international debate on the agenda. Well, then, what may be the case with these crisis management tasks is a matter for crisis-management veterans and peacekeepers, and for that, Minister Kaikkonen warmly thanks for cancelling that left-wing minister's cut on the Peacekeeper rehabilitation budget and for being able to continue to provide support and peer support for crisis management veterans and peacekeepers. This means that when these tasks are more demanding, these support services must be provided on a low threshold. They must be for those with physical injuries, of course, but also for those with mental injuries. More and more of these women and men have different mental injuries from these demanding tasks, and they may not come up until years later, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that, even then, this country will take care of these women and men who have been assigned to these tasks if it starts to surface with another traumatic event. So I hope that this issue will be strongly raised. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that the families of these women and men involved in crisis management tasks, parents and, above all, children, can also react to these events in Afghanistan, Iraq and other operations, and I hope that this support will then also reach these families and those close to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u55	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u56	Madam President! In his recent speech, Mr Kiljunen drew attention to the appalling crimes committed by terrorists in Isis, for example, against the siestas. At least in Germany and, I understand, in some of the Nordic countries, foreign fighters who have joined the ranks of this terrorist organisation in different roles have been subjected to criminal responsibility in their own country, once they have returned. A considerable number of foreign fighters and their family members have left Finland, but in Finland even the threshold for pre-trial investigations is not known to have been exceeded. It may well be said that our legislation on terrorism has not been up-to-date. Thus, just recently, Parliament was discussing a reform that improved our legislation on terrorism. Madam Speaker! I am not convinced that it is still up to date and, of course, it cannot be applied retroactively. I personally believe that we obviously need the whole of this section of our criminal law reform in order for those who commit terrorist acts to be held responsible for these acts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u57	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u58	Madam President! I'll be brief. Mr Zyskowicz raised this very, very dangerous issue, namely that of the foreign fighters leaving Finland who cooperate with these international terrorist organisations. It is a real security threat for Finland. And yes, we must put the legislation in this house in such a position that such measures are effectively prevented in advance, so that it will also lead to anyone who is considering going there knowing what the consequences will be if the path is chosen. And the punishment must then be so substantial and so strong that the person who is considering going there will leave it alone. The second point is, as Mrs Zyskowicz mentioned in her previous speech, the illegal residents of Finland who arrived here just over five years ago and have not been allowed to stay in this country after the processes. It is self-evident that they should be removed from here. I am very surprised at what Mr Mikkonen has done in this regard. After all, it is quite incomprehensible that the Minister is promoting such a project that an illegal resident can obtain a residence permit here. I have always believed strongly that Members of Parliament, and ministers in particular, are at the forefront of the law — obeying the laws that they themselves have enacted. And when, unfortunately, this is not the case for Minister Mikkonen, then I am very sorry about it and I am surprised, I wonder very much that such things even allow you to see that this kind of process is being carried forward stubbornly, although other government parties have clearly stated in their position on the matter that it is not acceptable. I would like that to be understood by the Minister at a slightly higher level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u59	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u60	Madam President! I cannot help mentioning at this point that in my previous job from September 2015 to Midsummer 2016 I carried out about a hundred emigration shipments from that Pirkanmaa, and most of the removals were from that particular Iraq. There is now a great deal to be said about the fact that Finland and Iraq do not have this agreement. You should also remember this Dublin agreement now, because few of these people have come directly from Iraq to Finland. However, they have been recorded in a European country before. They should, of course, be returned to the place where they were first recorded under this Dublin agreement. In other words, it would also be worth trying to find out and remember. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u61	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 18/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, chairman of the committee, Mr Pekonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u62	Thank you, Madam President. This proposal proposes a new co-operation law to replace the existing law on co-operation in enterprises and the law on employee representation in corporate governance. The purpose of the new law is to improve the functioning of the interaction between employer and staff through continuous dialogue, consultation obligations and administrative representation. The proposal will also improve the information of staff. Strong changes in working life and working habits and changes in the labour market system underline the importance of job dialogue, trust and cooperation, and the committee considers this government proposal to be necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of legislative proposals with the following observations and minor technical changes. Mr President! The importance of dialogue is highlighted in the new cooperation law. The purpose of the dialogue between the employer and the employee representative is to promote an adequate and timely flow of information between the employer and the staff, as well as the empowerment of staff in matters relating to their work, working conditions or position in the company. In principle, dialogue must take place at least quarterly. In the future, regular dialogue would take place, inter alia, in relation to the development prospects and the financial situation of the company or community, the rules of the workplace, the structure of staff and skills needs, and the promotion of well-being at work. The committee points out that, contrary to the provision, dialogue must, in principle, take place before the employer takes a decision on the matter in question, so that the staff can effectively influence the decision-making of the employer. Mr President! In the future, the employer and the employee representative will develop a work community development plan as part of a continuous dialogue, which will assess, among other things, measures to maintain staff skills and promote well-being at work. The development plan shall, where appropriate, pay attention to the specific needs of older workers and workers at risk of unemployment in different life situations. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities attaches great importance to improving the security of change for workers made redundant or at risk of dismissal and to promoting reemployment even during the period of notice, and considers that these issues must be taken into account in the development plan in a proactive manner. The committee also stresses clear principles and measures in the development plan for maintaining the working capacity of workers at risk of disability and older workers. The Committee considers it important that the development plan be updated during the negotiations on the reduction of labour force, as well as in the context of a continuous dialogue that takes account of changes in the company or the Community and its prospects for development. Changes in work organisation and training needs also need to be proactively addressed in the dialogue in order to avoid possible redundancies. Madam President! The proposed Co-operation Act requires the employer to provide in writing and in good time to the staff representative any relevant information that is available for effective dialogue. The committee notes that adequate and timely information is a prerequisite for a genuine and constructive dialogue. Regular information shall support the implementation of continuous dialogue and the right of initiative of the staff representative in practice. In particular, a report on the financial situation of a company or community more than once a year will contribute to a constructive and effective dialogue in the workplace. The Committee stresses that the promotion of equality between women and men in working life must be taken into account as part of the exercise of the right to information. Wage information given to a representative of staff is also important for identifying and addressing unjustified pay gaps. Mr President! Finally, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities draws attention to the fact that, on the basis of Article 2 on the scope of the proposed co-operation law, neither the Evangelical Lutheran Church nor the Orthodox Church apply, as this is a private sector co-operation law. However, the committee considers it important that the legislation on co-operation should also be extended to the Evangelical Lutheran Church and the Orthodox Church, and that legislative drafting should be initiated. President! The report contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u63	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u64	Mr President! It is a good thing in itself that efforts are being made to diversify this law. Of course, it has been diverse in the past, but in practice it has become a law of dismissal. In fact, in the event of dismissal, lay-off or such staff measures, this law always comes up at that stage, and it is often understood that it does not involve anything other than this section. As such, this development of dialogue, continuous dialogue is a good thing in principle, but it must be said at the same time — and that is why the Group of the European People's Party and the People's Party have made a joint objection to this — that, when it comes to small businesses, if the scope of this 20, which is in the government's proposal — our proposal is 50 — then there is a continuing dialogue there every day, because in many such companies the entrepreneur himself is involved in the practical work, is sitting at the same coffee table and working together, that is to say, there is a dialogue possible, but there is no staff who has the time and opportunity to organise these different kinds of dialogues and negotiations and to record them. It is inevitable that when good is sought in this way, bureaucracy will also be increased, and when bureaucracy is increased, it is extremely important that it should be in relation to the needs of its company and the circumstances of its company. That is why we think it is very important that, in this context, as this law is now being amended, this scope should also be raised from 20 to 50, and it 50 is justified in that way that it is the threshold for small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union. In other words, it is felt that, when 50 people are employed in the company, there will already be staff who are responsible for these staff matters, and then these matters can also be dealt with in the way that this law refers to and what good aspects are included in it. We will then come forward with a proposal in this direction tomorrow when the matter is dealt with in detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u65	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u66	Mr President! If you compare the last term of government and this term of government, there is a big difference in certain matters. The dismantling of standards, among other things, was extremely important to us during the last term of the government, and we were able to dismantle more than 400 standards and thus also have a certain degree of competitiveness for Finnish companies. We all know that there is too much bureaucracy in Finland. In this context, during the last period, we decided in principle that no additional Finland supplement should be included in Finnish legislation. The implementation of EU rules will refrain from further national regulation. That is why I am a little disappointed that, in a certain way, a valuable decision in principle in the last term of government is now being broken during this term of government, and unfortunately this is not the first time that this is happening. It would therefore be logical that this EU legislation and Finnish law should now be aligned with each other and also with this limit of application. The 50 employees' threshold under the Co-operation Directive also reflects a pan-European view, as Mr Satonen has said here. It would therefore be extremely important for us to try to stay out of this so-called gold peeling in the future. Mr President! We do not need such overly strict legislation in Finland. This is the only thing that will, and only, damage our competitiveness in the EU and in the world once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u67	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u68	Madam President! Now I am taking a really positive attitude on this subject. As Mr Satonen said, the Yt law, which is intended to cooperate in spirit, has been more of a law of dismissal in spirit, but now this reform brings its spirit into it. In other words, this proactive approach is exactly what the Yt law was intended for, and now this reform is a concrete step forward. And yes, I have a terrible hope that the employer will now see this resource — what the cooperation procedure can do for companies, so that we can say again for a long time that the staff is the best resource for the company. This reform of the YT law will allow us to bring up this value debate once again: that we will really start to appreciate each other from the point of view of the company's profitability, because I am quite sure that in the workplace a worker if anyone is concerned about his job. And if, at the moment, it is not natural for some companies to have that debate, then I hope that this legislation, which at this point serves precisely the development of the company and its goodwill to produce good in society and to succeed in hard foreign competition. Contrary to what Mrs Wallinheim said, I see that there would be much more to take from the EU and perhaps not the need to collide. Let us take the example of the law on the transfer of businesses, which is laid down in the EU, so that staff representatives are protected there at that stage — which means that there are occupational safety commissioners and so on, in a safer place than in our own legislation, where we have the law on the transfer of businesses only protects the position of chief confidence. The positive thing is that the committee courageously took a stand on the role of the church in relation to the negotiations. It is quite right that we should correct the government's proposal slightly in the direction that we have other sectors than the private sector within the framework of the Yt law. We have other players on the public side. This could still have been required to be imported into foundations separately — but a good step. As an alternate, the committee must be commended for the fact that this has happened. In fact, this is a step forward, which I hope will bring back the Yt-law in the form it is intended to bring good to both parties, both employers and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u69	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u70	Mr President! This is certainly a compromise, but it is important to emphasise that this change will ensure a lighter regulation of smaller employment enterprises, as well as the possibility of safe growth. The changes to the Yt Act also include small elements similar to local reconciliation, which is a step in the right direction. At the request of the Centre, companies with fewer than 30 employees are also faced with a lighter burden of dialogue, and SMEs with fewer than 250 employees are also compensated for infringements. President! This reform can also be written in such a way that it is important because it creates room for local action. In the post-interest period, it is therefore important to work together to find new solutions for job development when looking for new ways of working, for example, in attendance or teleworking. I personally see that the next sensible step is to develop the possibilities for local reconciliation in all workplaces. It should not be a boogeyman or a bad word, but an opportunity. The tripartite working group set up by the Government will continue its work, and hopefully the organisations will also have the courage to reform Finnish working life in a way that takes into account the needs of changing working life. President! Mr Pekonen also said very well about the inequality of pay between women and men, where unfortunately we still have a lot to fix and a lot to do. Many women - dominated sectors, such as nurses and teachers, are a world of moderate wages, unlike many others. Well, this was a bit of a side path now, but anyway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u71	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u72	Mr President! As representatives of Satonen and Myllykoski raised the issue very well in his own speeches, and I believe that the most important aspect of this reform of the law is that we should at last move forward with the fact that the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the And here we still have a lot of work to do to get out of this, so that whenever people hear the word ‘y’,they think that they’re going to send out a group of people and that they’re doing such an everyday normal work at the workplaces. Indeed, it is a very good idea in this proposal to improve employee empowerment in the workplace and information, and to bring regular dialogue between the employer and the representative of staff to the workplace. It proposes to strengthen the right of the staff representative to make proposals during the negotiations and to propose alternative solutions, which is a good thing. However, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities pointed out in its report, as Mr Pekonen went through, that the provision does not require dialogue to take place before the company's decision is taken, and that is really important. I myself know, for almost 20 years as a representative of the staff, that it is quite frustrating to have joint discussions and negotiations between employers and employees at a time when everyone knows that these matters have already been decided. In other words, if we really want employees to feel that their opinions are being heard, their opinions will have an impact, we need to get to the point where people are consulted and informed in good time. Adequate and correct information is a prerequisite for a genuine and constructive dialogue, and regular provision of information supports the implementation of continuous dialogue and the right of initiative of the staff representative in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u73	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u74	Madam President! There was something that was not said, and that was why I am pleased that the committee made such a record, that it also did not. and the Orthodox Church come into this circle. If we now look back a few years from this, then we have seen significant congregational unifications, and this is the element that I am pleased about, that even in the congregations where these associations take place, the staff will have a genuine opportunity at this point in the association of the congregations to bring their affairs forward, because that is a very concrete matter. In other ways, too, it is good that all employers are largely affected by this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u75	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u79	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 18/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u80	Mr President! It would have been desirable, or I myself would have liked the chairman or vice-chairman of the committee to have made this presentation of the lottery law. However, the lottery law is a very important law. Veikkaus is an important company, and over the decades it has brought great benefits and joy to Finnish society. When I consider myself to be this kind of a long-term bet, I would always like to stress that it was founded in the past by the Finnish Kingdom Sports Association, the Finnish Ball Association and the Workers' Sports Association, and it has been a success story — more than a billion euros in return for the beneficiaries in the past years. Now, over the last two or three years, returns have fallen significantly as Veikkaus has taken historical responsibility measures to prevent gambling harm, and I also estimate that they have contributed significantly to the reduction in problem gambling. Frankly, when I devoured and read this report by the Administrative Committee, I was generally very pleased. Thankfully, the opinions of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been taken into account, and perhaps even the problematic points that have been raised. If the President will allow me, I would read a couple of points in this committee's report which relate to the very essence of this government's proposal: “The Management Committee notes that the objective of the provisions is to According to the arguments put forward by the proposal, barriers to payment services are an essential means of limiting access to games outside the system. Various measures to combat harm will be partially ineffective in the system of exclusive rights if, at the same time, there is no interference with gambling activities outside the system of exclusive rights which are not covered by national regulatory measures.’ And perhaps in this connection it can also be stated in the parliamentary minutes that, while Veikkaus is taking these responsibility measures, foreign gaming companies have, so to speak, fixed the cream off the top, and, in fact, according to the information currently available, some EUR 400 million is being played abroad. This is just the big mega-class problem that the money goes abroad and the problems stay in Finland. Therefore, as the Administrative Committee points out, these domestic measures will be ineffective if the growing disadvantages of supply from outside the exclusive regime cannot be effectively addressed. That is why I think it is important now that we respond to this problem in this time period, and that is why effective and visible controls are needed to curb unauthorised marketing. If marketing is not stopped despite invitations, it is also necessary to prevent payment transactions, as it were, to ensure the effectiveness of the measures. With regard to these barriers to payment services, I think the Administrative Committee is very keen to say that ‘the introduction of barriers can be assessed to increase the awareness of players that they are targeted at non-regulated activities that It can also be estimated that barriers to payment services raise the threshold for gambling by gambling companies outside the exclusive system. In addition, the introduction of anti-payment restrictions is expected to reduce the interest of operators outside the exclusive regime in the Finnish gambling market.’ Then the Administrative Committee concludes this: ‘In order to prevent payment traffic and to be regarded as an appropriate means Mr President! Finally, I would also like to say that now that I have brought up these inhibitions and, in a way, like blockages, this lottery law also provides for the new or the present. Veikkaus will be able to do this international business and will also strengthen the ability of Veikkaus to channel and, above all, the prerequisites for its operations to continue to succeed in Finland and to serve science, art, culture, youth and sports work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u81	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u82	Mr President! This law is not good and it will not significantly save the competitiveness of the bet, which is obviously strongly behind this law. In my criticisms, I focus on a few points. The first is this obstacle to payment traffic mentioned by Mr Gustafsson. Several experts consulted by the committee have opposed the proposed barriers to payment services. According to a report received by the committee, the barriers to payment services would not effectively restrict gambling on foreign gaming sites, as they can be circumvented in a variety of ways. A consumer could easily circumvent inhibitions, for example by opening an account via a foreign online bank or using mobile wallets. The transition to non-traditional forms of payment is also problematic from the point of view of harm prevention, as this will reduce the opportunities for those dealing with problem gamblers, such as those close to the player, gamekeepers and debt advisors, and reduce the recognition of the gambling problem. The second entity is related to the dislocation of gaming machines. We are not satisfied with the outcome of the meeting. Unfortunately, this legislation now leaves them in store-houses. That is why we would have liked to have changed the law so that it would no longer allow it, this current law in this form. So we'd like these to be in supervised quarters. That is why I propose that the law should take the form set out in the objection of the parliamentary group to the report of the Committee on Administrative Affairs. Thirdly, I hope that the excellent contribution made by the Committee on Administrative Affairs on the monthly loss limit will quickly reach the minister's table and he will be able to make a change in the regulation. The current threshold of EUR 2000 per month is far too high.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u83	Thank you. — Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u84	Mr President! The purpose of the amendment of the lottery law is to strengthen the position of Veikkaus in a changed market situation. We must remember that the alternative is an ever stronger campaign by international gaming companies on the Finnish market. This would have a number of negative effects, since these gaming companies are not responsible at all, but are seeking to maximise, and only maximise, their profits. The solution would also mean that gambling profits would end up outside Finland’s borders and the advertising of gambling would increase — thereby increasing gambling addiction. So let's stick to our good system, but at the same time encourage Betting to act more responsibly than before to reduce the risk of gambling. Mr President! Gambling must be directed towards a legal, responsible and controlled game offering. Authentication will gradually become mandatory in all of Veikkaus' games, and that is an excellent thing. At the same time, effective means must be sought to intervene in the activities of foreign gaming companies in order to secure a monopoly. In the future, marketing against lottery law will be dealt with as well as the financial transactions of gambling companies. Effective supervision of financial transactions is, of course, difficult in practice, as the prevention list can be circumvented, for example, by using an online bank operating abroad. There is absolutely every reason to intervene in marketing. Finns deserve a well-functioning gambling system, the proceeds of which are directed to important targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u85	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u86	Mr President! There are many rather demanding laws in this Parliament, and an individual MP does not always have the opportunity to study them in depth. This lottery law was such that, while it was being discussed in the Administrative Committee, I became interested in whether it could be said, towards the end of the straight line, and there were quite profound and complex issues which were discussed in depth and were consulted by high-quality experts. I am not taking a position on any of these details here, but I am now going to tell the Minutes and the listeners how, in my own head, I would sum up this complex whole. I have numbered these points briefly. The first is that man must have always had the need to play with financial stakes, then let it be called gambling. The second point is that this often creates problems. As we know, 2% of the players in Veikkaus actually produce 50% of the profits, which means that they want to get worse for some people. The third point is that we have solved this in Finland by establishing a public monopoly which has so far proved to be a good solution but which has faced considerable challenges in the new situation. Fourthly, this has made it possible, even in a society of considerable profits, for many very useful purposes. The fifth point to which reference has already been made is that now foreign gaming companies, especially during the period of digitalisation, have clearly changed this whole field in an essential way, and we have faced this new challenge. Now the question is — and let this point be number six — how to reconcile all these things: the need for gambling, the management of the problems it creates, the competition between the various gaming companies, then the rational steering of these profits, and so on. It is also the case that, of course, a very strong effort has been made to influence this debate by the various stakeholders, because this is a rather large financial effort. As a final point, solutions can be sought either from very radical points of view or from more moderate points of view. I believe that a corrective, moderate yet substantial solution has now been reached, and in this respect I, and our parliamentary group, support this report and its statements, including the unanimous statement which has already been quoted by another Member. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u87	Congressman Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u88	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Clock's ticking, can we reset? - Thank you. [Parliament: Will there be a long speech? ] I have often said here in Parliament and a little elsewhere that the interpretation of the Constitution is excessive. In this Chamber there are almost weekly government proposals which have been found in the Constitutional Committee to be contrary to the Finnish Constitution in some respects. For example, there have been dozens of such proposals in Parliament during the current Rinteen-Marin government, and now I do not include corona-related proposals which are understandablely exceptional. I do not always intend to intervene here in plenary when there is another government proposal that has been declared unconstitutional, even if it could be effective in ensuring that Members of Parliament and the wider public are aware of this problematic situation in my opinion. This opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on lottery law contains good observations and suggestions, which, normally in parliamentary work, the special committees concerned do well to note in normal operation. But this opinion of the Constitutional Committee has also found two paragraphs in the draft lottery law which are contrary to the Finnish Constitution. This is what this government is constantly proposing to Parliament, as was the case with the previous government and its previous government and as will the next government and its successor, if we do not get the sense of this overly rigorous interpretation of the Constitution. These two anti-constitutional acts, which were discovered and discovered in this government proposal, I bring up another one, because I think it is a good indication of this overly tight constitutional interpretation again. It's such a pearl that I can't help but bring it up here. Article 14b of the Government’s proposal concerns the marketing of gambling and explains how gambling cannot be marketed. There are 11 paragraphs, followed by paragraph 12, which states that ‘there is no other similarity to that referred to in paragraphs 1 to 11’. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave its opinion on this and, in relation to freedom of expression, it found that the restrictions on the marketing of gambling in Article 14b of the Government’s proposal are too general. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated the following verbatim, page 4 in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: ‘The content of the marketing restrictions proposed by the Constitutional Law Committee in Article14b(b) must be specified. This is a prerequisite for examining a draft law in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted.’ In other words, it is a condition that the law does not conflict with the Constitution, and in accordance with this, of course, the Administrative Committee corrected this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u92	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I support the objection made by Mrs Wallinheimo, and I would like to raise a few points about it. The aim of this government's proposal for a law on the transformation of the lottery law and the related laws is to prevent and reduce the economic, social and health disadvantages caused by gambling. In addition, the aim is to strengthen the supervision of gambling activities and the legal security of players and the ability of the exclusive system to steer demand towards lottery gambling to further improve the prevention and reduction of gambling risks. For us, the main objective of the reform of the lottery law has been to reduce the number of people with gambling problems in Finland. Everyone who's got gambling problems is a huge human tragedy. We believe in the meeting that the funding of important organisations and others can not depend on how much money Finns lose in gambling. From this point of view, we are also looking at this government proposal, and our administrative committee in this protest. The starting point of the government proposal is that it does not assess alternatives to the current system of exclusive rights. The government should have examined whether the Government’s proposal’s objectives to reduce harm could be achieved by less restrictive regulation of individual freedom. After all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has called on the Committee on Administrative Affairs to carefully assess whether the objectives of the proposal could be achieved by means less lacking in economic freedom. However, no such assessment was made to the Administrative Committee in relation to the basic regulatory solution. Compulsory identification was already introduced into the law in connection with the previous revision of the lottery law. It has been in use since the beginning of this year, even though the law does not come into force until the beginning of 22 C.E. Here's where the bet has worked in the front row. In this government proposal, there are not only strong identification but also tightening up the marketing of gambling and the business-to-business opportunities for Veikkaus. We regret at the meeting that the government failed to deal with a number of issues on which solutions have long been awaited, and in this protest which has been tabled in the Committee on Administrative Affairs and which has just been put to this vote by Mrs Wallinheimo, we are raising the main points. We in the assembly would have liked to have the slot machines moved from the supermarket’s windboxes to separate spaces. This is not going to happen in this proposal. We are therefore proposing a statement requiring Parliament to take the necessary measures without delay so that in future slot machines will only be restricted to separate controlled facilities. Such holdings refer, for example, to gambling casinos, special gambling rooms or gambling points within the meaning of Article 4 of the lottery law. In our view, the current system is unreasonable to some 110,000 people in Finland who are struggling with gambling addiction. Nor do we in the assembly see these ineffective money transfer barriers as reasonable. We believe that they should be rejected. I myself have never been in favour of these blockages, online blockages or gambling blockages. In other words, we are proposing that the proposed articles be removed from this law, which would prevent money transfers in Finland. Mrs Wallinheim well described the problem that exists here, but also the way in which they are circumvented. We are also in favour of breaking the link between the bet and the beneficiaries. We therefore propose that the government be required to take the necessary measures without delay to: The items now being financed from the revenue of the bet will be transferred to the budget side and the earmarking of the funding will be cut. The Coalition Party also wishes to improve the supervision of the gambling system, but we also highlight as a very interesting withdrawal, which has not been much on the agenda, the promotion of this voluntary fundraising by the organisations. It could be considerably reduced from the point of view of authorisation and made more encouraging. Unfortunately, Mr Marin's government has not taken up this bill from us, which was taken up by Mr Ville Kauunto. We therefore propose that a statement be submitted to Parliament for approval requiring the Government to take immediate action to promote diversification of funding channels for associations, organisations and other bodies engaged in the work of general interest and self-financing. And here we also raise our objections to the future evaluation of the gambling system in the Committee on Administration. This work has been carried out and considered for quite a long time. In Finland, we have one of the last systems in Europe where there is still the monopoly of the gambling system, that is, the monopoly model. We are making a statement which would require the government to launch an investigation into the future of the gambling system without delay and to look at the options that could make a responsible system that would, above all, address the problem of gambling. That is what these observations and measures should all be directed at. In the beginning, I supported that protest made by Mrs Wallinheimo. It will be put to the vote by Parliament later.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u94	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u95	Mr President! It is good that this lottery law is being reformed and updated to prevent excessive gambling through this card procedure. So everyone involved in the game will have to identify themselves via a card, and so he is a registered player and has himself had to set a monthly limit — a very good thing. Representative Wallinheimo drew attention to the size of the ceiling, which is currently known to be the EUR 2000 per month. It is admittedly too high a ceiling, as Mrs Wallinheimo said in her own speech. It is appropriate to think about it in the Ministry and what can be done about it in general. The second point is that this monopoly is maintained in Finland as an exclusive right for Veikkaus Oy. That is an excellent thing. Large international gaming companies and their excellent marketing machinery if they could get here, as Mr Kiviranta said in his own speech, they can easily organise the raising of money, but they do not have any social responsibility for anything, just and only the pursuit of maximum profit, and then if someone gets into trouble playing, then it is the person's own business and society's business to take care of that person. It is good that this is curbed, and precisely so that we can keep this in reasonable proportions and then use the resulting benefits for the benefit of the people of this nation. Excellent action. Mr Zyskowicz's own speech went into these precise details, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its opinion, has required from the Committee on Administrative Affairs when the report was submitted to its final form by the Committee on Administrative Affairs. I'm telling you, there's a little semantic in there that we're gonna start... It is the art of words that where that right line goes, but it is in Finland this system has been established and the constitutionality of laws has been examined in advance in the Constitutional Committee and then the report committee has to take it into account. I'm sure there's this sort of hair splitting, but when it's found to be a system that works in Finland, I greatly appreciate it and hope that the same procedure goes on for decades to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u96	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u97	Thank you, Mr President. An important goal for the assembly is to reduce the number of people with gambling problems in Finland. Everyone who has had gambling problems is a human tragedy, and especially when we know that there are many young people there, that is what worries us. The Government's proposal does not follow the principle of protecting the most vulnerable as a matter of priority. These means, which are now being introduced and proposed, are heading in the right direction but are insufficient to reduce gambling problems. The representatives of Wallinheimo, Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen expressed good ideas on how to develop the gambling system and this regulation forward, and I support those proposals. I would also like to stress that this issue of Mr Veikkaus is no longer a matter of patch solutions; instead, an overall solution is needed to correct this regulation, to address gambling problems effectively, to build a competitive environment that is sustainable — and a regulatory environment that is sustainable — for gambling in the future and also to secure the funding of these beneficiaries, namely the organisation field and civil society. There are critical functions for the well-being of our society and for a sustainable future, such as the financing of science, funding of culture, funding of art, sport and physical activity, youth work and social and health organisations, and we cannot live any longer in a situation where their future is uncertain. I therefore urge the government now to take over this whole and to make bold progress on this issue so that a solution can be found that will last.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u98	Thank you. — Mr Gustafsson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u99	Mr President! In this respect, many Members of the Assembly of my esteem have spoken, and I do not want to stand here and feel that I am the person who is going to answer them, but at least on two points I would like to make such a marginal statement. The core issue now is that of this system of exclusive rights, its defence and development, its strengthening of the conditions for its operation. I would see it in such a way that, for example, when I am aware of it, and I am sure even the enlightened audience, that Sweden moved to this licensing system not long ago, marketing money was increased 20 times as much as we used it — you heard right, 20 times — and no one has been credible to me to show that this significant advertising would not also have an impact on the behaviour of the consumer. At least I want to see that this system of exclusive rights is worth defending and developing, and that is why this lottery law, with its various elements, is an excellent tool in which I personally believe. Well, then, it can be said that, when the majority of the parties now apparently represented here are most strongly opposed to restrictions on unauthorised gambling activity, whether it is a blocking system or a blocking system, these restrictions are currently in place in 21 countries in Europe, and if they are separately identified where money transfer to unauthorized gambling sites can be widely combated, the Netherlands, Greece, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and the Czech Republic can be found. As a social scientist, it is not very easy to learn about their impact in terms of research and science, and I would also say that it is not a very easy thing to study them, but I dare to correct them a little at this point and say that the common sense also tells us that if a player has doubts as to whether he will get his winnings back, then of course it will limit gambling in these foreign gambling companies, and this is also recorded and stated in the committee's report. In my opinion, this is a joint assessment by the committee — despite the fact that I know it and I have discussed, among other things, with the representatives of Wallinheim and Heinonen, that they can and will be circumvented. — Zyskowicz can get this prefix. — Nevertheless, its psychological preventive effect will be significant. I want to take these few ten million euros into Finland for the benefit of Finnish citizens and beneficiaries, not so that they go to tax havens, and I think that the majority of the Finnish people and the majority of Parliament are also strongly of this opinion. Of course, this is where the convention is going to be a little lonely. I do not know now when the Finns have not been interested in taking part in the debate, which, as it were, is a deeper view of these matters. Right here. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u100	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u101	Mr President! I hope that the Minutes also heard Mr Gustafsson's closing words, as far as they were also intended for them. Mr President! Mr Hoskonen had a bit of this debate on the Constitution, which I challenged here — well, I appreciate Mr Hoskonen’s reply to my criticism of the Constitution. I remember that the last time Mr Hoskonen and I went to the Chamber we had a constitutional debate when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — I think it was during the last term — found it unconstitutional a proposal from a government that could have been handcuffed to a prisoner who is being transported to the city, for example to a doctor. It was unconstitutional, unless there were very specific reasons for handcuffing it, such as the risk of escape. For the sake of clarity, Mr Hokkonen and others: I am not proposing a change to our current constitutional control system. Unlike my youth, I am not, for example, in favour of the Constitutional Court. All countries with a constitutional control system have advantages and disadvantages. The advantages of our system are that we have this control in advance and not only years later through a single case. The positive thing about our system is that we recognise and recognise the social values of the interpretation of the Constitution, and in that sense this interpretation is well suited to Parliament. I believe that no constitutional body in any country can escape the fact that the interpretation of the Constitution involves a great deal of respectable matters, for example because, in all countries of the world, I understand that the constitutions are rather general, in some respects even in the form of declarations, and also because, naturally, the fundamentalist weight of the Constitution is always associated with social values. President! I would also like to say that no body can escape the fact that the interpretation of the Constitution is linked to these issues of social appreciation and is reflected, for example, in the way in which a political body, through choice, is the highest court in the United States, how, for example, there is a political background in the German Constitutional Court, and how political values in practice affect the interpretation of the Constitution even in those countries where the interpretation is ultimately made by the Supreme Court of Justice. What about these downsides of our system? When there is far too much work in the Constitutional Committee, as everyone who sits there knows, and when these things are often very complicated, it is clear and natural that constitutional experts have a crucial role to play in interpreting the Constitution. It can be said, therefore, that a kind of constitutional court has been formed within the Constitutional Committee of this Parliament, consisting of approximately one-handed constitutional experts in the front row of our country, and there are hardly any more of these experts. This Constitutional Court, which has been formed within the committee, is very unclear in its choice, its selection process is in no way transparent, and its choice is in no way transparent. When judges are in office, they have criminal responsibility. When the administration is in office, they also have official responsibility and ultimately criminal responsibility. Even MPs have what is known as political responsibility. Well, what does that mean? Well, if nothing else, at least the fact that if citizens are not satisfied with their actions, then in the next election you can fly like a leprechaun. But what is the responsibility of these few constitutional experts who, in fact, de facto determine to a great extent what is permitted in Finland and what is not to be regulated? What responsibility do they have? Do they have responsibilities? No, no, no. Do they have a political responsibility? No, no, no. Do they have any financial responsibility? No, no, no. Of course it's not. I'll say it again. Of course it's not. For the third time, of course, it is not and should not be. I say this so many times so that anyone who wants to twist my words and thoughts at least knows that he is doing it on purpose. But when they have no such responsibility, is it right that they have such a central role in what the Finnish Government and Parliament can and must not regulate in Finland? Of course, it is said that, after all, the people who sit in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have the power, not the experts, and I myself myself have pointed out that it is good that such constitutional interpretations of social appreciation have their own role to play. But there are now more than one previous chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this Chamber, at least a couple of whom can speak — the President cannot — and everyone knows and is currently carrying out a study on the key role of experts. And it could not be otherwise, given the number of issues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, their difficulty and also the fact that there is a great deal of high-flying legalism that is not a regular politician who has been sent here to promote the cause of his constituents, one can be of great interest. Mr. Speaker! The biggest problem with our system is that this unique control system, which I support, has apparently led to completely unique interpretations, and this could be investigated. Comparing Finnish constitutional interpretations with other countries with a similar legal culture. Law Dr Lasse Lehtonen wrote a couple of days ago in connection with the corona pass that he felt such a democratic rule of law standard would be good and sufficient to assess the Constitution. That's my recommendation. No, Mr Hoskonen, I'm not wrecking the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u102	Thank you. — Mr Wallinheimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u103	Mr President! Perhaps it is time to respond to Mr Gustafsson. This law should not have focused on expectations of return or the defence of an exclusive system. This should have been the center of the gambling problem. Now, if ever there had been an acceptable situation, especially since the representative In the working group led by Mr Koskinen, we have been very much concerned about the exchange of income in the future in the general budget. This would have opened up an opportune opportunity for us not to have had to look at profit expectations anymore, but to have been able to approach this law from the point of view of gambling disadvantages. Unfortunately, the government has made a choice of values here, and that choice of values is in favour of its strong, or Veikkaus, not its weak, or gambling problem. And this fundamentality, the thinking world, is not today. We should have looked at this law from another point of view, where it is the gambling problem that is at the heart of it, and that is probably why these changes in the parliamentary working group would have enabled us to obtain a much better law on this. I'm afraid we're going from the ditch to the whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u104	Thank you. — Mr Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u105	Mr. Speaker! I'm going to go into a few things. Firstly, Mr Zyskowicz's comments on this functioning of the constitutional control are, of course, always refreshing. And I do recognise some of these problems mentioned by Mrs Zyskowicz in this example of Finland's constitutional pre-control system. It must always be remembered that this does not become an export model: in a country such as Finland that has established democracy and also established legitimacy, it does so, but it does not work in many other countries. But from these weak points: If we seek correction, I would emphasize three lines. Firstly, it would be good if we had more of these in-depth experts in constitutional law. Perhaps a few more chairs would be needed within the university or, for example, to change the practice of members of the highest rights so that they would be more available to give an opinion and so on — that this human capital would be widely disseminated and made available to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The second route is then, which concerns the preparation of government proposals, that would like this to be a stronger legal control, i.e. constitutionality, order of business and the interpretation of fundamental rights; such has once been in the form of a law enforcement body at the Ministry of Justice. Such knowledge exists in the Attorney General's Office, but this wave of bill proposals is so big that these models do not work enough, and in many countries there is such a law council, or by which title, a body made up of well-experienced and competent lawyers who makes such a final review of the legislative proposals before they come to Parliament for consideration. Such a supplement could also be good in our system, both of which would reduce this dependence on just a few experts. Well, then, these working methods of the Constitutional Committee. There is probably such a problem that there comes such a cumulative tightening, that when you look for those points of observation in the lice, then they always accumulate: those same things are paid attention and then a little bit more attention. In it these experts are helpful in the lice, that often if there are four experts, then if there is one there to find some comment, so let’s go. It may not be enough to make an overall assessment that these remarks are, however, so heavy that we will then end up as a matter of order of regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u106	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u107	Mr President! To refer to Mrs Zyskowicz's good speech, it is a good thing that the Constitutional Committee is basing its decision on a previous constitutional line which it has maintained decades back. I do not see a problem with any decision when it comes to keeping to the lines of how things are going. If we were to go into such constant trouble, I actually think it would be a much, much greater risk to this system. And I understand that when laws are reviewed in advance, it is the best option for action: we know in advance what is coming to us. Mr Zyskowicz rightly mentioned this small number of constitutional experts in this country. Perhaps, in line with Mr Koskinen's excellent speech, we need to extend this basis to the extent that there are much more of these constitutional experts. It is sad to note that when young people go to universities to study law, environmental law seems to all go to study. It's a sexy business today, so that's where everyone wants to go. Well, why do they want to go there? I would say that when you have come across environmental lawyers a few times, there is such a legal area where no principles of law are implemented. There are no precise or precise rules. There can be a huge difference between two different days in the same matter. As a hunter, I could give you some examples, but I'll leave it in some other conversation. Let me just say that justice cannot be that the truth does not exist; it is something between it and it is something else tomorrow. Mr President! Finally, if we compare this with the European Union, which I have recently criticised because of its procedures when no agreements or charter are respected any more: there should not have been a right to tax, there should have been no debt-taking in order to meet the budget, there should have been no solidarity. Well, now it is. Then why is it? There is a Court of Justice there in Strasbourg, but it is unhappy to make decisions many, many, many years later. The Court of Justice of the European Communities will probably find, when it interprets these things too, that it is the sorry ones who, after all, are the ones that have been decided, that they can no longer be affected. What kind of justice is that? I think it fills the first sign of dictatorship that there is such a court that can't influence anything, only makes rulings with powerful pleasurable decisions. If this system does not turn into something there, I am afraid that the European Union will have difficult times ahead. However, this lottery law issue now under discussion is very important and I welcome Mr Zyskowicz's good words from that podium as a sort of thank you for having looked at this issue as a competent, skilled lawyer and long-standing parliamentarian from the right angle. I thank Mr Zyskowicz for his good comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u108	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u109	Mr President! So we are dealing with the title of the lottery law on the regulation of gambling, but we have had a good debate on these constitutional interpretations, and the President has allowed it, and I believe that this has been justified. My parliamentary experience is very brief and I have listened with great appreciation to Mr Gustafsson's speech here on this lottery law as well as the speeches made by Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Koskinen on these constitutional interpretations. I have to say that, even in this brief experience, it may have happened that I have had to deal very much with these interpretations, because in the last two and a half years we have had a very great deal of discussion with the Act on communicable diseases and the interpretations of the Constitution and throughout the spring in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, then with the reform of social and health care, in which we had an ongoing dialogue, of course, with the Constitutional Committee. I am not going to go into any further criticism here, but I would say that I have a great tendency to understand the point that Mr Zyskowicz has made here. I think, for example, about a year ago, in connection with the so-called border law, which is called 'the law on communicable diseases' and the risk of cross-border infections, of course, the Sami people should have the right to pursue their traditional occupation on the borders and not be hindered by excessive border regulations. In February of this year, we then had another version here under the name of the frontier law, which in fact changed one word of the Act on Disease Control and then, to some extent, the explanatory statement relating to it. A total of 200 expert consultations were requested from five different committees. This is, of course, for very fine reasons, and I am sure that this is at the very heart of fundamental and human rights. Now I'm going back to this lottery law. This is where the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a practical position on four issues, two of which were, so to speak, motivated by the order of things, both of which then changed whether the change was sufficient, too far-reaching, or whether it was merely a cosmetic operation, if said. Of course, there is a difference of opinion. Then two other things were such that they were not considered necessary to lead to change. This report also dealt very thoroughly with these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u110	Thank you. — And Mrs Wallinheimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u111	Mr President! I think that Mrs Lindén's speech is very illustrative of the fact that the government is not talking about the most vulnerable, gambling disadvantages and so on in this law. This is inconceivable, but these move forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u112	Thank you. — I saw the general discussion...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u113	Mr President! Yeah, just for a second. — It always hurts me very much if it is said that neither the Social Democrats nor Mr Lindén, Mr Koskinen, Mr Gustafsson are interested in the position and defence of the weaker person. The second main objective of this law is precisely to reduce the risk of gambling, and when we want to do it with hard tools, these blocking systems and so on, it does not pass on to the assembly. I would not go on throwing stones of this kind here, considering the whole of this last three or four years of activity, in which this compulsory system of identification has made a significant contribution to reducing the risk of gambling. I myself think, however, that there are of course not the weakest, but yet there are people with problems, and their number has been significantly reduced — thanks to the responsible measures taken by Veikkaus, which now come with new tools under the new lottery law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u114	And Wallinheim, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u115	Mr President! These compulsory identifications are, after all, the legislation of the last regime, which is now being implemented. That is why it would have been extremely important in this legislative reform, now that the law is being opened up, possibly in the context of a general budget and in the future. The proceeds of the bet will then be compensated by the following parliaments, for the fact that the machines would have been placed in controlled facilities. It would have been the best cure for our gambling problems. This is the fundamental problem which I do not understand why the government did not go away right now. This, precisely by means of this measure, would have been the best way to help these people with gambling problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u116	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 37/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u117	Thank you, Mr President. This government proposal, on which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has drawn up a report, proposes to amend the transitional provisions of the Act on public procurement and concessions for affiliated entities operating in the social and health services sector. This amendment will allow contracting entities to continue existing links and cooperation arrangements in accordance with the provisions currently in force until the social welfare reform reaches the point where the functions of municipalities and hospital districts are transferred to welfare areas from 1 January 2023. The general arguments put forward by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy state that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the adoption of the proposed regulation without amendment and makes some withdrawals and comments. Among other things, the committee notes that the Procurement Act does not apply to procurement by a contracting entity from its own affiliated entity. So this is the status quo. If the tied entity does not comply with the exit limits, it may lose its position. The current transitional period for the sale of affiliated entities is ending on 31 December and, if the law is not amended, the exit limits for affiliated entities under Article 15 of the Procurement Act will also apply to affiliated entities operating in the social and health services sector from the beginning of next year. The current provision has been based on an estimate made in the overall reform of the Procurement Act in 2016 that the restructuring of social and health services that was pending at the time would have taken effect before the end of 2021. This was not the case at the end of the day, and that is why this transitional period will be extended with the Government's proposal. The committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to adopt, without amendment, the bill contained in the Government proposal 168/2021. The report contains an objection which proposes to reject this bill. — Thank you, here is a brief introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u118	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u119	Mr President! The chairman of the committee has rightly presented this report and I have nothing to say about it. The expert consultation also showed that, in view of this exclusion limit, which the European Union allows, the 20 % maximum — the last point of the opinion of the Economic Committee is: ‘The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it very important that as part of the legislative work required for the implementation of the reform of social and health services,the adequacy of the elements of the procurement law,in particular as regards the role of the services, should be assessed. The national discretion left by EU regulation should be used to take account in particular of market failures in sparsely populated areas in Finland.” This is where the committee spent some time considering how this should be done. I therefore hope that this last paragraph of the opinion I have just said will be taken into account when the procurement law is clarified. Let us take, for example, the situation that, even if a large central hospital acquires such a diagnostic equipment with a huge capacity, it would be a pity if it were not allowed to sell out services to outsiders and, in a way, it was only used by the house, but no outside sales should be made. It would very quickly result in foreign companies with the same services being able to easily exploit this restriction of competition by selling it when they can no longer sell the same service themselves, even if it is three times more expensive for the customer, and unfortunately the only one in the line will be the taxpayer. I hope that this will be taken into account, because I think the taxpayer's purse is pretty tight today. And if I have understood that policy of the European Union today, it is becoming a big hand that is even more greedy to take tax euros away from this country. Such healthy elements of home-running must exist and so that domestic installations, even if used by a hospital district or a university hospital, must be able to be used, because that is certainly the best option for this nation. And here too, I refer to the previous debate on this amendment to the lottery law: here again, it is a question of whether we want to spend the money here in Finland for the benefit of the citizens or whether it goes abroad to some big companies that are simply investing and seeking maximum profit.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u120	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I have just presented the committee's report in the role of chairman of the committee, but, as I said, it contained an objection, and, if it is all right, from the point of view of the assembly, I would present the main points, because I think it is important that they come to Parliament's attention on a large scale. We believe that, within a five-year transitional period, the affiliated entities and their owners have had the opportunity to adapt to this situation and to the provisions of the new procurement law. The exit borders were intended to change from the beginning of next year, and we believe that this has indeed been a reasonable adjustment period. The new facilitations proposed for the year forward will increase the risk of higher exit limits being a permanent practice, and it is also a question of the credibility of the legislation and the predictability of the operating environment. In its opinion of 2021, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection referred to its report, and the committee also drew attention to this in its own report. On that basis, the Agency concludes that the market shares of the affiliated entities controlled by public contracting entities are already significant in Finland. The Group of the Party of European Socialists notes that the Procurement Act already allows the sale outside the owners by means of a transparency notice. We therefore propose that the draft law and the opinions given to the committee do not contain sufficient arguments to ensure that this temporary regulation at the disposal of the interlocutors continues for a year to come, but that we believe that we should act as provided for and promised, i.e. after the transition period the normal state of affairs should be moved. On these grounds, we will propose that this bill be rejected. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u122	Thank you. — And Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u123	Mr President! I would like to make two examples of these matters, which have been discussed here by Mr Hoskonen and Mr Grahn-Laasonen. The very large laboratory of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, which is a public laboratory, could also sell laboratory samples directly to customers, i.e. patients, even if the broadcaster was a so-called private doctor. At present, however, this is interpreted as meaning that HUSLAB operates on a competitive market in competition with private laboratories and that the price level that HUSLAB would have would be significantly cheaper than the price level of private laboratories currently exists, but is therefore limited in accordance with this rule of 5 % and EUR 500000. In other words, consumers would receive cheaper laboratory studies if this limit were less stringent. It is now a practice for patients to go around this in such a way that, after having been to a private doctor who prescribes a long list of laboratory studies, the cost of which is often much higher than the cost of a visit to a doctor himself, then a time is set aside at the health centre where time is inadequate to transfer this laboratory messenger to an internal transmission of the public service, and in this way, in fact, an unnecessary visit is produced when this could be carried out in a much more flexible way. So this example was from this capital region. Another example is from different parts of Finland, when, for example, a small industrial area with a regional hospital operates only a public imaging unit. Now, however, the occupational health care that operates there in industry cannot be used by this public imaging unit because even there these limits are exceeded, and that is why the patient has to be sent, because it is a private health care activity, all ten kilometres away from the other place because there is a private laboratory available there. In other words, we must have more flexible and loose rules on these matters than we currently have, and that is why we should pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u124	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 38/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u125	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been working very hard and has tabled a number of reports now before Parliament in these last few weeks. I now present the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy 38/2021. This government proposal proposes to amend the law on the safety of the handling of hazardous chemicals and explosives, the Mining Act and the Nuclear Energy Act. The law on the safety of the handling of dangerous chemicals and explosives would be supplemented with regard to the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive on environmental impact assessment and the European Parliament and Council Directive on the prevention of major-accident hazards of dangerous substances. The amendments would concern the provisions on the granting, notification and appeal of authorisations under the Directives. In addition, technical amendments would be made to the law. In addition, it is proposed to include in the Act on the Safety of the Treatment of Hazardous Chemicals and Explosives, the Nuclear Energy Act and the Mining Act reference provisions on the new provision on the assessment of transboundary environmental impacts added to the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure. The proposed laws will then come into force very quickly. These amendments to the legislation proposed in the government proposal are the result of infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission, and the related changes in infringement procedures are being introduced into a number of legislation that has already been adopted and will be adopted here in Parliament. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the proposals contained in the government proposal to be necessary and relevant. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the proposal, but in the detailed explanatory memorandum we will make a more precise amendment. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also took a slightly broader view on the development of the licensing system, and I would like to bring this to the attention of Parliament. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the need to ensure the smooth and reasonable duration of the authorisation procedures raised in the committee's expert consultation. This is also highlighted by the extensive access to justice required by the EU legislation that is behind the regulation. The key to this objective is, on the one hand, the careful and transparent preparation of permit applications and, on the other hand, the effectiveness of the licensing authorities, the streamlining of licensing processes and the safeguarding of adequate public authority resources. Sector-specific legislation should also seek to ensure consistent regulation of authorisation procedures and the right of appeal. Indeed, in this detailed statement of reasons, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy sets out the expression ‘registered associations and foundations for the promotion of natural, environmental or health protection in the region concerned’. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that this provision meets the requirements for the proper implementation of the Seveso III Directive, which is the basis of the government proposal. The wording of the provision would then correspond to the terminology used in the Directive. The term ‘public concerned’ is defined in Section 23 of the Act and includes the previously mentioned registered associations and Therefore, the committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament accepts, without amendment, the text of the Government's proposal HE 169/2021 contained in the 2nd and 3rd legislative proposals and that Parliament accepts the 1st amendment to the Government's proposal 169/2021. a draft law. Mr President! This committee's report contains one objection to the general arguments put forward in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u126	Thank you for the introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u127	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 39/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity to present the report 39/2021 by the Committee on Economic Affairs. This proposed regulation is a very technical one, in fact a correction of the error. The proposed regulation is intended to remedy the technical defect of the government proposal HE 126/2021: the section lacks an exemption from the main rule of the application of the regulation in the rest of the proposal. The EU crowdfunding regulation and the amendment of the Financial Instruments Directive II entered into force in November 2020 and have been implemented since 10 November 2021. The deadline for national transposition measures for the EU MSF Directive was 10.5.2021. The CFD Directive removes from the scope of the Markets in Financial Instruments II Directive an activity which fulfils the characteristics of an investment service but which is carried out within the meaning of and under the mandate of the CF Regulation. This will avoid a situation where several licences are applied to the same activity. In order to allow for the authorisation procedure and to clarify the relationship between the crowdfunding regulation and the ISD, the implementation of the amendment to the Directive on markets in financial instruments must be in line with the start of the application of the crowdfunding regulation. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the proposed amendment to be justified, bearing in mind, however, that the wording of the proposed provision does not correspond to the normal wording. In the detailed explanatory memorandum, we propose that the entry into force rule should be amended to meet the general requirements for legislation, i.e. to remove the unorthodox term ‘or, as soon as possible’ and to specify it. The committee's proposal for a decision is therefore that Parliament adopt, as amended, the bill contained in the Government proposal 222/2021, and this was, of course, unanimous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u129	Thank you. — Congressman Pauli Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u130	Mr President! There is a technical correction in this reading and, of course, while we are talking about investment, I would like to see a longer term, rather than in the long term, technical adjustments to the equity savings account. It is a good system that encourages popular capitalism, but it still has considerable limitations in its use. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u131	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 18/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u132	Mr President! The bill proposes to repeal the Act on the Library of Parliament. The bill relates to the reorganisation of parliamentary communications, parliamentary information services and library and archiving activities, for which the proposal has been approved by the Staff Committee on 17 June this year. The management system of the Information and Communication Department’s organisation will be reformed so that the organisation and development of services can better adapt to the changing operating environment. In addition to the current legislative initiative, the Council of Presidents' proposal for a Parliament decision amending the Statute of Parliament's Office and repealing Article 15 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which is also before Parliament. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers this proposal to be necessary and appropriate. In addition to the law on it, the Library of Parliament is currently governed by the Statute of the Parliament's Office, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Statute of the Library of Parliament. The committee agrees with the legislative initiative that the regulation of Parliament's library is too detailed and multi-level in relation to the administrative status and tasks of the library and considers it necessary to streamline the regulation. In the future, the necessary regulation will be included in the Statute of the Parliamentary Office. Parliament has received an annual report from the library, as provided for in the Act on the Library of Parliament and in the Statute of the Library of Parliament. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, as stated in the legislative initiative, regards the examination of the library report as a rather prescriptive procedure in committee and plenary sessions. The parliamentary examination of the library's report has provided the opportunity to gather annual information on the activities of the library and the archive and to discuss it. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs attaches great importance to the possibility for discussion of library matters in Parliament in the future, for example in connection with the budgetary procedure and the audit report of Parliament's auditors. So we still want to talk about the library even if the law is repealed. The Library of Parliament must continue to be an open place for everyone. In addition to the Parliament, the Finnish Library serves the entire Finnish society by acting as a library of public legal information, social information and parliamentary information. From the point of view of open democracy, it is important that the Library of Parliament remains open to all. Consultation of the library's parliamentary customers and other core customers, such as the scientific community, in the development of the library and archive services and functions is of paramount importance in the future. The committee stresses that the streamlining of the library's regulation must be carried out without changing the name of the Parliament library, with respect for its history and without endangering the service of the library's customers. The committee's proposal for a decision is therefore that Parliament adopt, without amendment, the bill contained in bill 48/21. The debate was completely unanimous, and we very sincerely support this bill, even though we want to show the library a huge appreciation of the Committee on Education and Culture. But that appreciation does not depend on this law, but arises from their activity. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u133	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u134	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for the presentation. Indeed, in this bill I was the first to sign, but in practice the members of the government of the entire Library of Parliament were involved in the initiative. The library is indeed doing an important job and has a long history. The Library of Parliament will be 150 years old next year, and there will be more than 30 employees. The library serves the entire Finnish society by providing legal information, social information and parliamentary information to various parties, to all citizens, but of course active users in addition to parliamentary citizens are students, researchers, journalists, officials and so on. Both in the legislative initiative, in the discussions of the library board and now in the report of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, it is important that, first of all, the tasks of the library remain, the name of the library remains, traditions are preserved and everything appears as if it were the same for users, customers. But, as the chairman of the committee said, action can be made more sensible and more efficient, and this is behind the President's proposal on how the organisation is to be developed, and when the organisation is to be developed, the solution has been reached to try to simplify very complex norm control. In my own opinion in the committee consultation, I concluded by saying: ‘The most commonly chosen mode of response is to increase layer regulation and complexity. We are now doing something different: deregulation and complexity are being dismantled. For the Library of Parliament, it is done without changing the name, with respect for history and without endangering the service.’ An important issue for which the chairman of the committee: Risikko raised, the library board raised and the report, there is a discussion link between the library and Parliament. It's important. Customers need to be consulted, and Parliament is one of the most important customers. Parliament representatives must continue to have the opportunity to talk about the library. It is not possible now that the report is not brought into the Chamber and that the committee's report will not be brought into the Chamber in the future when this law is repealed, but at least when we talk about Parliament's money, and when we talk about the audit report of Parliament's auditors, it is possible to talk about it. With these words, I wish the library a good, fine continuation of important work and strength. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u135	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u136	Mr President! The Library of Parliament is an institution in itself — a bit as it is said, globally, the US Congress Library is an institution in itself that already counts for its existence. Of course, the Library of Parliament is, above all, an institution under Parliament in the way that it serves this parliamentary work that we are doing here, but, as has already been pointed out in many of these introductory speeches, the Library of Parliament is not only serving the people of Parliament, the official machinery and the representatives of the people, who work in this house, but also has a role to play in the whole Finnish scientific community, which was also referred to in the press, as a place that is absolutely essential to the apparatus and also to the students. This is the most important library institution in Finland, where this social science literature is compiled comprehensively and, of course, also legal literature and then various types of literature directly serving the Parliament. I myself remember from study times when there was something to be said in the Library of Parliament, not only because of the substance of what was here — that this information-based material, which was so strongly associated with social sciences, was also a solemn place to come to science, and in this respect these speeches, which stressed that this library must also serve civil society, a wider Finnish society than the people of Parliament, are true, and it is worth agreeing with these praises for the activities of the Library of Parliament. And I also want to thank the staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u137	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u138	Mr President! Thank you to the Chairman of the Board of the Library of Parliament, Mr Kiuru, for his good work. In time, as a young Member of Parliament, I myself was able to work in the administration of the Library of Parliament, and it was an interesting viewpoint in many respects. It is an important centre of information, like our entire library network in general, but the Library of Parliament has also had a unique task of collecting this memory archive. After all, this is not a eulogy for the Library of Parliament as such; it is only a question of reforming and streamlining the administration, and that is what we have always supported in the assembly. In other words, more contributions will be made to the activities themselves and the administration will be reduced, that is what this is all about. But I personally hope that the Library of Parliament will remain as active as it has been so far: one that responds to changes in knowledge, changes in the need for information and many other such questions. What I was going to raise to reflection in this debate is the future of the library building in this Parliament, because our libraries will change significantly in the future, as the number of traditional books decreases and the need for space changes through it, and then this Parliament's library building could be, for example, a visitor's house that would operate in connection with Parliament and create a certain kind of strength from a security point of view to the functioning of Parliament. It is perhaps worth considering, in the context of the next renovation, that we would have a separate house that would serve as such a visiting house, and it would then take place in the Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u139	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u140	Mr President! As Mr Heinonen said, we are certainly not giving a eulogy to the library, we are giving a eulogy to bureaucracy and over-measured norm control. That's what this is all about. The library will continue as before. Mr Kiljunen stressed that it was open to all citizens. This will indeed continue to be the case. It is important, under the leadership of Virrankoski, the head of the management team of the library now operating, to consider how to collect feedback from users, including Parliamentians and other users, because up to now the Government of the Library of Parliament, with its members of parliament and staff and members of the scientific community, has brought the feedback to the management of the library that we in the Board of Directors of the library have also received and passed on. This role of the library's government is now being removed, and those feedback channels must be considered in a new way, and I am sure that the means can be found. What Mr Heinonen raised about this library building — it is in this Parliament’s context — we can also physically get there and the public can get outside: the operation of libraries has changed as a result of digitality. The amount of loans to a fully printed hardcover has not grown that way, have even fallen, but then, on the other hand, digitality and the use of digital materials have increased, and that trend will certainly continue. Then this exhibition house idea or like — excellent reflection. In this context, it must be mentioned that the library is in normal times — now, of course, not so much in the corona era, but in normal times — to offer various exhibitions that have served all citizens. This will certainly continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u141	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u142	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! A total of some 600,000 Finnish men and 100,000 women participated in the wars. The youngest of those who entered the front at the time were only 17 years old. One in eight of those who participated in the wars died. Of the returned, one in four had sustained permanent war wounds, leaving behind 30,000 widows and more than 50,000 war orphans. At the beginning of this year there were still about 6,000 veterans among us. Of them, there were over 800 war invalids, and the average age of our honorary citizens is 95 years. All in all, at the beginning of the year, some 14,000 veterans and widows and war widows have been alive. There are about 2,700 men from these veterans, over 3,000 women. One year ago the number was 7800, more than five times over ten years ago. According to the Social Insurance Institution’s forecast, at the end of 2025, there are only about 1,100 distinguished veterans in Finland, and a few thousand spouses and widows. Every day, the final evening cry calls about seven veterans. That means about 2,500 veterans a year. According to Kela’s forecast, in 15 years’ time, in 2036, there will be no veterans among us. Good work has been done and good results have also been achieved in the interests of the Veterans’ Associations, such as the legislative amendment promoted by the Veterans’ Associations, which provided free access to all services supporting the home of veterans, and 1.4. last year, there was a historic increase in the front premium for veterans and miners. The supplement was more than doubled. However, the work of these, in fact, our honourable citizens will continue, and this work will be carried out by our veteran alliances. Heikki Karhu, Executive Director of the Front Veterans Association, has raised the issue of an increase in the front bonus. So it was raised from just over EUR 50 to EUR 125, but it still remained in the original proposal of the Veterans' Unions, EUR 200. This is therefore still an objective which the veteran unions hope to achieve, hopefully at the beginning of next year. The bear said that there is a hurry, so quickly the number of veterans is falling all the time. We have a debt of honor to pay. I tried to bring this matter forward in Parliament and through the Front Affairs Advisory Board, but I did not receive sufficient support from the government parties that this would have gone through as a joint motion, and I have therefore tabled a bill amending Article 9 of the Military Pensions Act 37/2021 and Article 3 of the Law on Advance Pensions payable abroad. In the initiative, I propose an increase in the advance supplement under the Military Pensions Act and the Law on the Advance Pensions to be paid abroad. The benefits would be increased to EUR 200 from the current EUR 125 per month to 45 cents per month. Thus, the breast allowance is paid to persons who have been awarded a front veteran's symbol and to persons to whom the War Archive has issued a certificate of participation in mine clearance operations between 45 and 52 years. After the previous increase, which entered into force on 1 April 1920, the breast premium is therefore only EUR 125 45 cents. The number of veterans is decreasing rapidly, as I said earlier, and according to the financial statements of the 20 countries, EUR 11.6 million was spent on the table, EUR 9.9 million was reserved for this year and only EUR 7.7 million was reserved for next year in the Ministry of Finance's proposal. In other words, if the increase to EUR 200 were to be made as I proposed — and the proposals and wishes of the veterans’ organisations — at the beginning of the year 22, the total cost would be EUR 10.8 million. In other words, practically this year's budget could ensure that next year this EUR 200 increase could be introduced, precisely because of the fact that our number of veterans is shrinking so rapidly. So this bill has been made, and this is also part of my proposal for the budget of 22 countries, and this will be dealt with as a so-called budget law, and I hope that there will also be sufficient support from the government parties for this important issue and that we can give these honourable citizens the increase they truly deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u143	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u144	Mr President! There is now a legislative initiative by Mr Heinonen and the initiative proposes to increase the front premium under the Military Pensions Act and the Law on the Advance Pensions to be paid abroad. The benefits would be increased to EUR 200 from the current EUR 125 per month. I welcome the initiative and support it. War veterans are honorary Finnish citizens. Without their contributions and sacrifices, the Republic of Finland should not have developed as an independent and free country. Many of them gave their lives, others their health, so that the rest of us would have a fatherland in which to breathe freely. Even if not all suffered permanent physical injuries from war, a huge number of soldiers were left with deep spiritual scars from the horrors of war. The veterans did their part, and now it's our turn. We owe it to them from our country. Mr President! Kela’s statistics on the recipients of the front allowance show that at the beginning of this year there were still 5886 veterans among us, of whom 2,752 were men and 3,134 women. The youngest veterans are 86 years old, which is explained by the fact that among the veterans, there are young girls in evacuation missions in the war area and, for example, military boys serving as messengers. The oldest veteran was 108 years old. Mr President! The number of live veterans remains relatively low, and the number will decline even further in the coming years. According to the calculations, the number of veterans will decrease by 2022 to around 4,500 at the beginning of the year. The initiative states that if the increase to EUR 200 were to take place from the beginning of 22, the total cost to the parlour would be approximately EUR 10800000. This is a relatively small amount and value choice at the level of the state budget, and we can afford something that is so important. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Raising the breast allowance would be a patriotic and human act in which Parliament could show its respect and appreciation for the last living veterans who fought for our independence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u145	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u146	Mr President! The Veteran issue is common to us, and, as Mr Heinonen said and everyone knows, the number of veterans is decreasing, and then, of course, the money spent on breast dishes is reduced. Now we are beginning to have the final moments when we can show appreciation to those who have risked their health to defend their country. Under the budget of 2021, EUR 9.9 million will be spent on the loan this year, and this bill says that if an increase in the budget was to be made from the beginning of next year, we would need EUR 10.8 million. However, when it is inevitable that it will be removed, I will ask Mr Heinos when you are sure to be more familiar with these figures: can it be estimated that as early as 2023 or at least 2024 will already be below the level of what money will be spent this year? So this is not such a permanent element that increases government spending, but through its natural disappearance the payments would then be reduced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u148	Mr President! “Take care of the brothers who don’t have a chance ” belongs In fact, it answers Mr Kiuru’s question: care, for soon the brothers will be absent. Thank you to Mr Mäenpää and Mr Kiuru for their contributions to this bill. In reply, we could actually say that we currently have some 5,000 honorary citizens, who are those who have received the front service ID, the oak cow ID, for whom this benefit would come, and the sum will then be approximately EUR 10.8 million. When you look at what is happening to us here, as I said in my presentation, the final evening cry calls about seven veterans every day. It means that the number of veterans is reduced by two and a half thousand every year. Mr Kiuru's question might well be said that it is very likely that next year even a smaller budget will be enough to cover this, perhaps half of this appropriation in 2023, and this is an exceptionally rapid one. As I said, at the end of the year 25, Finland’s Social Insurance Institution predicts that there will be only about 1,100 distinguished veterans and spouses and widows in Finland, a few thousand, which means that this removal will be very rapid. We therefore have the last chance to pay this debt of honour now, because according to Kela's estimates, even the last one, the youngest of the veterans who received our logo, who were therefore young girls, young boys who participated mainly in the late part of the war or after the war, for example, in mine clearance, will be removed in 2036. We are already talking about individual honorary citizens who are still among us. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we are being cared for, because the brothers will soon be absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u149	Thank you. — Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u150	Mr President! I came all the way down here because when you have a place to thank me, it's a place to thank you. Mr Heinonen has taken two excellent initiatives, which I think are heart-to-heart. The fighters of this land, free to us, have earned all the honor that can be given them. Often, too often, it has remained a trifle of words. Congressman Heinonen's initiative has some practicality. It wants to pay back the debt of honour that this people should be paying at last. I am more than warmly in favour of a colleague's initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u151	Thank you. — And Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u152	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Peltokanka very much, but I do not wish to accept these thanks, but I would like to direct them to our veteran organisations who have done this work. They have been active in this, have been in contact with me and with many others, but when things did not progress, I decided to take action, for the situation required it. So I will not accept your thanks, but I will pass them on to our veteran organizations and, above all, to Heikki Karhu, Executive Director of the Federation of Breastmaveterans. He has been the most important factor in all of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u153	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u154	Mr President! Two or three years ago I received feedback from a citizen from Inner Finland, and his concern was about what is the cause of death, who is the deceased hero and how the death of a person has been recorded in the statistics. The case he brought up was the case of one of the brothers who had fallen in the war. She was frozen, and she was brought frozen to the home congregation for burial. The enemy had placed a hand grenade on his armpit. Then, when the deceased was digested in his own congregation, his own brother was there on vacation from the military service. He was melting to bury his own brother. When it was melted — of course, when the limbs began to melt and were placed in the position that the deceased could be placed in the coffin — that hand grenade exploded, and the brother also died in that situation. The contact of this citizen was related to the fact that this brother was not recorded as a dead hero because he did not die in the war zone and in the military mission. Somehow it seems unreasonable to have your own brother put the grave to rest and digest the body and an enemy hand grenade explodes and dies. Yes, it has been a patriot's affair then, and the title of the dead hero has been earned.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u155	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — Congressman Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u156	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is now the second of these legislative initiatives, thanks to our veteran organizations. In that previous presentation, I told you a little about the current situation of our veterans and how many of them are still among us and how many more are calling the final evening cry. We have a mean age of veterans of 95 years: the average age of men of 95.8 years and the average age of women of 94.7 years. So while the number of veterans is decreasing, the veterans live longer and longer. The youngest of our veterans are now 86 years old, which is explained by the fact that they received this logo, deservedly, definitely, as young girls and boys in the field of military service, among other things, in evacuation duties, as young girls and boys, as messengers, as military boys. According to that information, the elder was now about 108 years old. Go and know if he's already heard his last night cry. Over 400 veterans have crossed 100 years, and this year the border was crossed by some 320 honorary citizens. So veterans live longer and longer, and last year we in Finland actually moved to the historical situation, because the majority of our veterans are women now. Front service IDs issued to women have been issued, for example, as a lottina, military sister, assistant sister of the Red Cross, in anti-aircraft and evacuation missions, as well as as as workable women and young girls during wars. So the majority of veterans in our country are already women. Veterans' organisations have done a good job and raised these concerns. Sakari Martimo, Executive Director of the Federation of War Veterans, stated a moment ago: ‘The improvement of the situation of veterans hasrequired long-term work, but it is appropriate to enhance the relationship between their widows and their partners’ interests in ‘The role of their For many men traumatized by war, they were the only support a veteran had. It is also good to remember that they too have contributed to building the welfare society in which we now live.” First quote from Martimo and second quote from Bear. The rehabilitation of veterans' spouses is now one of the main objectives of the lobbying of veteran unions. We also tried to push this proposal forward, but it did not receive sufficient support, and so I will take this initiative. In the meantime, I took the initiative to increase the supplement to the Law 37/2021, and now I have the bill 38/2021 to amend Article 1 of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Front Veterans. I do these to honor the late war veteran Pekka SKYLA a few days ago, his long life's work and sacrifices in war — and, of course, the life's work of all other veterans to honor. In the initiative, I propose that the spouses of our veterans in our wars should also be subject to the right of rehabilitation when they participate in institutional and day care without a veteran. Veterans’ widows should be entitled to rehabilitation or other veteran benefits, like those of war-qualified widows. Reasons for this: Currently, the spouses and widows of the 30 per cent WMD have an independent right of rehabilitation, i.e. they are entitled to a certain amount of rehabilitation when they need it. Opponents of war apply for a 30% discount in order to give spouses and widows of disabled persons the right to rehabilitation. It would also be fair for the spouses and widows of disabled veterans to be admitted to the right of rehabilitation. The rehabilitation of war-qualified spouses and widows has been provided for by a Government decree, which could also be amended to deal with the spouses and widows of disabled veterans. The current regulation gives spouses and widows a 100 % disadvantage rate priority to rehabilitation. In the same way, the reformed regulation could safeguard the right of priority for spouses and widows of disabled people with a 30% disadvantage. So this is about amending the regulation, but we in Parliament cannot change the regulations. Thus, this bill includes an amendment to the scope of the regulation, which would thus state: ‘The spouse of a female female spouse and an unmarried spouse may participate in the rehabilitation with a vetteran as laid down in the regulation. The right of rehabilitation also applies to the widow of the front veteran.’
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u157	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-08-ps-147.u158	Mr President! This is a bill by Mrs Heinonen to allow the spouses and widows of veterans to seek rehabilitation, i.e. to reduce the conditions for access to rehabilitation. With warmth, I support this motion by Mr Heinonen.
