ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I now call on the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u2	Congressman Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u3	Mr President! Self-monitoring was supposed to fix the problems of care for the elderly, but now serious deficiencies in home care have emerged in Tampere after a surprise inspection by the Regional State Administrative Agency. According to Avi, faults put the good care of home care customers at risk. There were deficiencies in mealtimes, medication dosing times and storage, as well as in tools. The staff consisted mainly of replacements, there were already workers who had quit their jobs, there were no written contracts, and the on-call phone was not answered. There have been staff shortages elsewhere, as in Juankoski, for example. On the basis of the Tampere example, do you think that self-monitoring will continue to be an adequate form of control, or what concrete measures do you intend to take to remedy the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u4	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u5	Mr President! I think Mr Reijosen's question is excellent, and it is great that we can talk about these. I drew attention to this same case and I have to say that self-monitoring is needed, in any case. The organiser must be responsible for the kind of services that have been provided, but also from the producer's point of view, the meter must vibrate when it goes wrong. But that is not always enough, and the good thing about this example is that our control organisation works. In practice, this situation has been addressed on the part of the supervisory authority. This reflects the sad fact that our home care services also require reform, and that is why we are still bringing to the Chamber before the end of this part-session a second-stage reform of the old-age service law aimed at reforming home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u6	Thank you. — I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u7	Mr President! In addition to home care, there are serious problems with informal care. Even before the corona pandemic, the situation of carers was weak, and the support they received from society was largely dependent on the municipality of residence. The situation was further complicated by the withdrawal of interval treatment, for example. The family carers did not get the break they needed from their hard work. Many family carers feel that society does not appreciate the work they do, and it is easy to agree with this view when you look at the state of the services provided to family carers. In their alternative, the Finns of Peru propose that the support for informal care be completely exempt from tax. In support of carers, do you intend to harmonise the services provided to carers throughout the country — throughout the country — and to make the allowance for informal care exempt — duty-free?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u8	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u9	Mr President! In their question, the Finns of Peru will certainly take up the everyday life of elderly people, and especially the role of family carers, which is of concern to the whole Parliament. During the last parliamentary term, there was a significant legal reform of informal care and the central government shares of municipalities were also increased specifically to improve the status of family carers. It is desirable that municipal decision-makers have followed that law in practice and have also contributed additional money to informal care. In this government's programme, too, informal care is listed, and Minister Kiuru will be happy to tell you more about it. There is no tax exemption for informal care support in the government programme. As far as the harmonisation of practices is concerned, it will happen at the level of each welfare area and we will get rid of the problem of how to treat family carers and carers in neighbouring municipalities in a very different way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u10	Congressman Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u14	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u15	Mr President! Yes, ensuring the adequacy of home care staff is quite a and o, and I agree with Mr Juvonen's view that there are precisely some serious deficiencies in home care as to whether we have enough staff. In this example of Tampere, which Mr Reijonen spoke about earlier, it will also be proven. This gap will not be eliminated unless legislative proposals for improvements are also made. The same applies to the decision already taken by the Parliament's large-scale Chamber to introduce a more stringent definition of carer in enhanced service housing. If we did not do this, we would not be able to get these people to work either, because those decent conditions also need to be safeguarded from the staff's point of view. This project should have started a long time ago, and it is very important that such strong parliamentary support was given to it. This is also an important message which Mr Juvonen has said and which I confirm here that such an important change should not be reversed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u16	Two other groups have asked questions on this same subject. The debate will be expanded in such a way that from the centre's side, Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u17	President! In the care of the elderly, the statutory registration of the size of the personnel has therefore been made, and steps towards the 0.7-manufacture have been started. However, this does not mean that our old people are well now. The city centre is also concerned about elderly people living at home, so that living is safe and human. New forms of housing between home and institutional housing must also be developed. President! Aging Finland will not survive care for the elderly with honor without the participation of family members in care and care. I would ask Prime Minister Kiuru: what does the government do or has done to encourage the participation of the family and support their care?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u18	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u19	Mr President! Yes, Kivisaari has the right line in that we need a more diverse service structure. I think that is the first important message to your question. A clear extension of the service structure for housing services is also the main feature of the second phase reform of the Act on Services for the Elderly. We need other forms of living at home and in enhanced service housing between living around the clock — this leap is too large, and many people also lose their ability to function far too quickly if it is taken directly from home to 24-hour care — and I agree that it is human and that it must also be applied for legal incentives. Another aspect is this development of informal care. We miss the fact that informal care is in fact the most common form of treatment in Finland. If our loved ones did not care about their loved ones and were helpful, we would be in a much more difficult situation, but we rarely recognize the importance of this informal care. That is why it is important that we also be able to make small
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u20	Congressman Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u21	Mr President! Older people, especially those suffering from various memory disorders, have a special need to receive care and care in their own mother tongue and to be overly understood. It is sad if a person in his last years of life has to contend with the fact that there is no common language with a nurse or a doctor. At worst, this lack of language skills leads to malpractice, but otherwise there will be human problems. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the language skills requirements in the care sector must be raised across the board, certainly not in the light of labour shortages or diversity. This is a very important piece of work and requires a common language. I would ask the minister concerned: how does the government intend to ensure that a Finnish-speaking elderly person has access to services in Finnish and Swedish in his own country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u22	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u23	Mr President! The law does ensure that this is the case, but this question is justifiable when we consider the shortage of staff, which is particularly concerned with the services of the elderly. Our challenge today is that the industry has suffered from the fact that we have taken time to build these decent conditions. From the point of view of enhanced service housing, the pressure to increase the need for service raises the need and the question of where to get nurses. This is the serious question that over the years we have also explained from the point of view of the care staff what language requirements should be met in the future, and this issue is on the table now that we are setting up a knowledge programme. In practice, it was decided in the budget debate that this competence and its strengthening should be addressed and that the acquisition of additional skills in the care sector should be considered strictly among the various parties involved. This is also a language issue that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u24	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u25	Mr President! The Coalition Party wants to see to it that every elderly person can count on good care and care and humane treatment if necessary. You promised to put the old people's services in order, but what is the situation at the moment? Looking at home care, for example, from last November, November 20, last May, home care nurses have decreased by 600 nurses. Several experts have come out and said that care for the elderly is on the verge of a crisis. My question now is: what action are you taking? You said there would be a law that would correct this situation, that home care was in trouble, but when that law was in the consultation, the experts gave it a complete knockout. They said that there is no solution or money in that law. And the Ombudsman said, I just read it in the summary of the opinion that the law requires a full renovation before it is brought to Parliament — a full renovation. I now ask, Minister Kiuru, how do you correct that bill?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u27	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u28	Mr President! I, too, read the feedback of this consultation and, of course, there is a difference of opinion as to what that feedback was. One certificate was issued by the representative of Sarkomaa. I personally think, however, that the real question is whether we are going to improve these services. If we raise our hands and say it is not the time for home care this time again, we will not bring any suggestions for improvements to Parliament, then we will be at the start. We should have wondered why we did not do these renovations ten years ago. During this term of government, it is recorded in the Government Programme that we take seriously the opportunity for older people to live a better life. This is how we made the nursing allowance, about 24-hour care, these improvements, which are a very important step towards ensuring that people receive decent, high-quality care, but also staff become employees of this type of service, where we are at great risk. And on the other hand, we also need improvements in home care and informal care so that this whole
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u29	Congressman Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u30	Mr President! Family care is often a hard, demanding job, where people are intensively closed 24 hours a day, year after year. In addition to support for informal care, there are other ways to support family carers. There is a lot to learn about Omaishajary, always from practical work to a paper war with public authorities. Many family carers are perplexed in the rule jungle, and there is also a message from the field that there is a crying need for guidance. Guidance on informal care varies from municipality to municipality, and information has been scattered all over the Internet, but for many people it is challenging to put together pieces of information. Older people in particular do not necessarily have the capacity to search for information online. I ask the minister concerned: would the government be prepared to support municipalities financially for various kinds of family carers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u31	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u32	Mr President! In future legislation, advisory services must also take a stricter line. I agree with this view that we need to help family and elderly people in the service network to know where they are from, for their own needs, that service is available. In this way, the anticipation of housing and, in general, the self-employment of different types of services, i.e. housing on the side of different types of services, are the one for which work needs to be done, and this will already be ensured by legislation. But there are also problems as to whether all of this is being followed. In the future, perhaps a major improvement will take place from the point of view of the social and social restructuring, as 22 actors in the whole region will coordinate that the practices are the same. Currently, the operations of municipalities and joint municipal authorities are very different depending on the municipality and the joint municipal authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u33	Congressman Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u34	Mr President! The Christian Democrats have presented a model of four guarantees to care for the elderly — a hygiene guarantee, an outdoors guarantee, a food guarantee and a Community guarantee — because it seems that it is not enough simply to raise the level of judgment in the care of the elderly when we do not have enough nurses. And this in turn leads to the fact that we have had to shut down service housing units as a whole and then move these elderly people to different parts of the world and find a place to care for them where there have happened to be free places. What does the government intend to do about the fact that elderly people do not end up as a throwing bag from one service housing unit to another when these units are currently being closed because of a lack of nurses? What is the government’s response to this situation? This is an acute and screaming shortage at the moment, and if you think that the relatives of these elderly people have to travel longer distances many times so that they can visit these people moved from one service housing unit to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u35	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u36	Mr President! Yes, it is human that a person should be allowed to live where the place has been obtained. And there is also this big question that, in this time, so many people would wish that we could now just give up the fact that when there is a shortage of nurses, why don't we give up these good legislative frameworks and say that it's all right?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u39	Congressman Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u40	Mr President! It is quite extraordinary that there is talk of a shortage of nurses, but at the same time there is only one mention of informal care in the government programme. Wouldn't this be one solution? And another solution would be to attract the thousands of nurses who have left Finland abroad? Have you thought about this tempting of Finnish nurses in the home country? But let me ask you this again, Minister Kiuru, during the last parliamentary term, when the law on informal care was reformed and at that time the state fully compensates the municipalities for the costs of these two days off, and this earmarked money was then EUR 95 million a year: have you now cut off half of this earmarked money for informal care, in fact, during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u41	Who's answering? — Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u42	Mr President! I am sure that the representative will open up this question after this Question Time — I did not quite understand what you meant. But in this government program, we're not making cuts to care for the elderly, we're making investments, and this is the big picture. We are now trying to improve care for the elderly in relation to these shortcomings. We must take seriously the fact that we have too few nurses. We have nurses who used to work indirectly instead of direct work. So care work, nursing work, not done, but also cleaning, laundry and food services were done at the same time that the professionals should have focused on care and care. Now it's been remodeled. But this movement also continues with regard to other services for the elderly, and I think it is a good thing that family care has also been mentioned. We are not in a position to make such a reform that we would now have the support of informal care in the whole country, but in these 22 regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u43	Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u44	Mr President! Minister Kiuru, you mentioned that the second phase of the old-age service law comes here to Parliament. It has just been here during the recent consultation. Did you notice that, at the end of September, 26 senior workers took a public stand, called out their distress call to you? And it reads as follows: ‘Moreskillers for older people’s services,and not laws that make them obsolete. “ They refer to this very second phase of yours, which you are now bringing. You're going to change it, and you're going to bring in a law that can get more nurses to take care of the house, aren't you? This last legislative amendment of yours, in particular, resulted in the closure of care facilities for the elderly last summer. Now we need a law that actually adds both home care and institutional care to these people. You'll make one, won't you? Please promise me in the presence of this congregation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u45	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u46	Mr President! Ensuring the adequacy of home care staff is a and o if we are now considering the forthcoming proposal for the next reform of the Act on services for the elderly. It is a key question of how to provide permanent resources for people to receive the service they have been provided as necessary, but also so that nurses know that they can use the same time as they do in other areas to secure each service. It is therefore essential that these letters of the law be made sufficiently secure for home care staff. It's also a source of resistance, I know that. But we did assume that, when the 24-hour care system guarantees the availability of staff, we will also safeguard it in this respect at the level of the law. The second thing, then, is what I am concerned about, and probably the whole of Parliament, where we get the attraction of the social media industry permanently, but also the grip.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u47	A question has also been put to this whole by the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance. — Representative Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u48	Mr President! At that time, the care relief from more than two years ago brought to everyone the shocking reality in which many Finnish elderly people lived, especially in the units of large care companies. After the old - age nursing ward, a similar fuss came about about the early childhood education business, where ghost nurses had also been widely used. The previous government's social welfare reform would have led to massive privatisation and forced-to-companies, but now the social welfare reform takes the right direction when private care business can no longer maximise profits at the expense of people's well-being and security. In the future, the public sector must always be there for the driver. So I ask Minister Kiuru: how quickly can these new welfare areas get control of the situation — as the Finns raised here, it has been revealed from Tampere and elsewhere that these problems still exist on the private side in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u51	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u52	Mr President! Yes, we will. And there was a good analysis of what the social welfare reform put on the margins also for elderly services. It is good to say that we have problems with both the public and the private side, and in these we must have zero tolerance. We cannot think that the mistreatment of the elderly will continue. That's impossible. We need to reconcile today's skills with what is human old age, and this is not an easy matter. And I agree that we need a supervisory authority. This example of Tampere shows that the supervisory authority has acted and has now been addressed. It also came to the City of Tampere as an organiser quite hard because they had three days to react to the relocation of their activities. Yes, this is also cruel. If these things and omissions take place, then they will also be dealt with and with a hard hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u53	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Last spring, with my written question, I explained to Minister Kiuru the supervisory practices of the Regional State Administrative Agencies. According to the management of the Regional State Administrative Agency of Western and Inland Finland, the visits are announced in advance to health care units such as care homes for the elderly. According to Avi’s management, there must always be a legal basis for an unannounced visit. The activities of the care units will therefore be monitored in such a way that the care unit will be informed of the monitoring visit in advance. It is clear that such a practice is a gross violation of the human rights of the elderly. Mr Kiuru, why do you not see the problem of informing health care services of the inspections of nursing homes in advance and thus sweeping under the carpet the risk of endangering patient safety? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u55	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u56	Mr President! All existing legislation can always be reviewed. However, the starting point must be that, when we suspect that there has been a failure, it is based on something — that is the basis of a just society — but I am prepared to look at this issue as well. We now have these sections open here in Parliament when a proposal is introduced into the Act on Elderly Services, but the starting point must, of course, be that these things should be done much earlier. Self-monitoring must also work. We cannot assume that we only have state authorities, which are ultimately lacking. Yes, we must also demand that the field commit itself to self - control. This is a big question both from the organiser's point of view, but also from the point of view of society and trust as a whole, how we treat our elderly and whether it is an interest to ensure that this self-monitoring also works. That is why I would stress the need for both.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u57	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u58	Mr President! The situation in home care is challenging. There are very many elderly people living at home who need a lot of care services. At the same time, they are in a very vulnerable position: they depend on this treatment. We have read that abuses and thefts have been associated with the medical staff, and I would ask — at the same time as access to 24-hour care has become more difficult due to these legal blackmails: In what way will it be ensured that the staff who provide services to homes are competent and adequately equipped? And is it the intention or plan to introduce some kind of aptitude test to the medical staff, so that not only are all those capable of nails being tried, but are those who are able to attend local nursing training regardless of the level?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u59	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u60	Mr President! Yes, it is quite a valid question, which of us will take care of whom in the future and with what ethos and education. I believe that these are justifiable questions. Each of us would like a person who comes near us and takes care of us, to know how and how to do these things. It's a sine qua non. The challenge, of course, is where, in this lack of skills, we can get people who meet such criteria to apply for this particular training.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u61	Thank you. — A supplementary question from the Central Parliamentary Group, Mr Kemppi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u62	Mr President! Valuable and safe old age is the right of all of us. It requires the care providers to cope, including the family carers to cope. I would like to ask Prime Minister Kiuru: how are the real opportunities for family carers to keep the freedom that they have been allocated? Now there are no days off, and the family will not be able to receive safe treatment. The proposal of the city centre is to increase family care as a substitute for informal care. A family nurse can come home to a nurse and go to a family nurse. Known, safe, family-like foster care is our goal. We are talking about basic human rights, about the right to a safe life. This is important for people with memory disorders, for example, to maintain familiarity and safety. It is up to all of us to take care of the necessary care of the carers. How does the government intend to promote this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u63	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u64	Mr President! We have about 50,000 family carers who are therefore covered by the aid, and many who are not even covered by the aid. From this one can conclude that if nearly 30,000 are over 65 years of age, then what matters is how we support them. The reform of the content of social and health services, which is taking place during the war, has taken into account the fact that we should prioritise the ability of family carers to cope. Their services at the very basic level must be ensured, and everything has been done to ensure that they are able to cope. Many of these people who care for their own sick loved ones at home also need social and health care services, and how their support can be increased is now a matter of the day as part of that content reform. There's a line of surgeries, there's a line of pain care. How does this pattern work so well that they are supported? The second question is, from the point of view of recreation, how to support the ability to function,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u65	Thank you. — Finally, Mr Reijose.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u66	Mr President! It seems a little sad that the allowance for informal care does not become tax-free and there will be no uniform criteria for informal care throughout Finland. When the Minister here raised the importance of developing informal care, I will ask at the same time that, last time this National Family Care Development Programme has been updated in 2014, when will this be updated, because it has been a very long time since this was last updated. And then the saddest question: Is it true — when I have heard this — that you have gone about cutting the state’s earmarked share of informal care to the municipalities fairly, perhaps even half? Is this true, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u67	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u68	Mr President! It is probably now necessary to teach support when there are representatives sitting next to each other who both asked for this. After this Question Time, it would be nice to know what this rumor has to do with. As I said, during this term of government we will spend 45 million on the reform of phase two services for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u69	Thank you. — Mr Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Briefly: I also thought that we could go back to this, because we have a system of state aids with no earmarks. We have a system of state aid, which targets some individual development projects, amounting to approximately EUR 1.9 billion, which is about EUR 8 billion in state subsidies. For the most part, therefore, the municipalities inside decide where the budget is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u71	Next question, Mr. Häkkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u75	Thank you. — Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u76	Mr President! As I assume we will be able to discuss this in a few words, I will start by opening up what is meant by the framework itself. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, it is as if it were agreed by each government for itself, a spending ceiling for those who are able to accommodate economic policy measures, expenditure increases and other necessary economic solutions. This government moved in the middle of the parliamentary term when the corona situation struck. It is interesting, of course, to ask the opposite question: would the coalition have failed to do so? [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u77	Thank you. — I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Häkkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u78	Mr President! There was no answer to this question at all. The Minister of Finance is going around this issue, because this is a politically hot issue within the government. The question now also arises as to what line this government is taking in changing the EU's economic rules. If you do not know about domestic economic policy whether debt should be made easier or whether there should be responsible debt criteria, spending criteria, what line do you take in EU-level regulations? At the very best, there is a strong debate between the EU countries — for many years now — on whether the rules should be changed in a direction that facilitates debt or in the direction of responsible economic policy. And in the past, the Finnish Government has not been able to adopt a position on nuclear issues, on forestry policy, on the EU's recovery package and now on the economic policy acquis. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u79	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u80	Mr President! Let us go back to this if, Mr Häkkänen, I was not able to respond clearly enough: the government has committed itself to the spending limits system and the government has not taken a decision which, as it were, would change the basic principles of the framework and leave more things out of it than before, as it were, outside its own spending limits. You certainly know the system well and that by common accord — the spending limits system has been in force since 2004 — unemployment security expenditure, for example, is outside the business cycle. But no new similar policy has been adopted. The government itself at the beginning of each parliamentary term and in this case also because of the interest rate in the middle of the parliamentary term made that change. You also asked about Finland's line in relation to the EU's Stability and Growth Pact, as it were with that fiscal code. Yes, the Finnish line is quite clear. We are not in favour of opening up the EU Treaty. It is a Treaty-level issue. It is a fundamental pillar of the EU that there is an economic policy acquis that commits to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u81	Congressman Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u82	Mr President! If you listen to this debate, you will become more and more aware of the TV band of Mr Ovaska’s ‘for a long time now’. “ The answer is that as long as you, Minister of Finance Saarikko, sign for it and you, representatives of the centre, will guarantee it a majority. [Basic Finns Group : Just like! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u83	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u84	Mr President! As far as this debate is concerned, there is no line at EU level on the so-called 'golden rule' - which therefore refers to the question of whether the debt rules would constitute a gap in investment in the fight against climate change - and, if I correctly interpreted the Prime Minister's speech, his proposal concerned a similar procedure for the Finnish spending limits system. That was his thinking, and that is not what the government has decided. You are quite right, Mr Mykkänen: the level of the framework and the economic policy debate within the government have been very difficult, but we found agreement on it last spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u85	Congressman Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u86	Mr President! The government's economic policy has, of course, cast doubt on many citizens, and so has I. When you made those spending limits decisions last spring, you certainly knew that there was not enough money there for culture, for sport, for youth work and for the police. This probably didn't come as a surprise to anyone. That is the only thing you did not know — and neither did Minister Kurvinen, who organised a press conference on this matter — that there would be such a fuss and a social media debate. It is a good thing that the money has come, but my question is: is this the government's economic policy line that whenever there is a noise, more money will be given and it will be given out of a fund that is not from anywhere else?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u87	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u88	Mr President! It cannot really be that line if and when the government has a commitment to remain within the framework of the economy which it now defines itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u90	Congressman Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u91	Mr President! Indeed, on several occasions, Prime Minister Marin has called for the so-called reform of the spending limits procedure, provided that debt is taken greenly and in the fight against climate change. The same has indeed been said about the EU, even Germany, in relation to the Union's debt rules and economic governance. Of course, the debt countries in the Union are cheering, and so are many parties here in Finland. The green branding of expenditure and the integration of everything possible into climate action is easy and will certainly succeed both in Finland and in the European Union. Both this recovery package and the forthcoming climate package show how so-called good objectives can justify anything. It seems that climate action is ready to spend endless amounts of money. So, Mr Government, I ask: how much can the daily costs and tax burden of a Finnish citizen increase because of the most ambitious climate policy in the world that you drive?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u92	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u93	Mr President! Finland and other EU countries committed themselves to a joint recovery package, which we call a sustainable growth programme at national level. It was very clear that we were able to distinguish between the amounts involved in the green transition, which in practice means, for example, support for technology, research and development, or, for example, support for a voluntary transition to the removal of oil heating. The implementation of this, in which Finland is renovating to make a lot of investments specifically in the green transition with business, is only just beginning in the various Member States, and we see its effects. Therefore, the idea that we are already committed to building a similar gap in fiscal policy at EU or national level... It is worth watching now how the implementation of this programme is progressing. By your question you also referred to whether ordinary citizens are paying the cost of this transition, as it were. The government has been very careful about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u94	Congressman Park, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u95	Mr President! There is a desire in the European Union to reduce economic rules, deficits, sovereign debt rules and also these investment criteria. After all, monetary policy has been loosened by central banks for a considerable time. At the same time, various transfer and solidarity arrangements are being built. Last night, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Parliament discussed the Bank Resolution Fund and, among other things, bringing forward where customers of well-managed banks would actually subsidise crisis banks. Minister of Finance, you often point out that the Treaties are respected, all this is done for the Treaties or there is green investment. Two weeks ago, in Question Time, you referred to the economic growth of the European Union through these joint actions, but I ask you: do you see that this could be a more primitive, more ancient phenomenon, at least in part, that is to say, if we offer loose taxpayers' money on the table,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u96	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u97	It is usually easier to distribute money, Mr President, than to take it away from something. [Heckling] Your question was very relevant and indeed relates to the major change in the EU's economic policy agenda, or at least to tone differences, which has been raised in more than one speech. Therefore, Finland participated with seven other Member States in an article that confirmed and wanted to highlight the importance of debt sustainability and economic stability.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u99	Congressman Lindtman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u100	Mr President! The opposition here says that for a couple of years he has been trying to give the impression that in Finland, economic policy has somehow become indifferent to the sustainability of public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u101	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u102	Mr President! Congressman Lindtman is absolutely right. If we look at this level of debt now, we are on a scale similar to that of the early 2010s. Unfortunately, then, nothing new in itself, but a long-term imbalance in Finland's expenditure and income is at stake and, of course, the ageing of the population and the desire that we all emphasised in the recent debate to take care of the elderly. However, as far as employment is concerned, we have a very good situation at hand, and it should be strengthened even more so that the message from businesses to us no longer needs to be labour shortages, but that we can find a way to better meet people and jobs. However, Mr President, I would like to respond to this debate on the EU insofar as the acquis that the EU has built for its Member States in the Treaty is quite complex. It is also a fact that it is not fully respected,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u103	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u104	Mr President! Yes, you, Minister Saarikko, around these Marin debt speeches you're going around like a cat of hot oatmeal. I hope that you will also go through this spending limits procedure with Mr Marin, and that this will be made clear to him too. You still take a record amount of debt after the interest rate, next year 6.9 billion, and within it you were unable to find funding for the police first, then for culture, then for sport, then for science, then for art, then for sport, and only after the fuss, this money was sought. Under Marin's leadership, you decided to operate on all of these first. Your decision-making is like a slingshot backwards: one jump forward, three in the back. Mr Saarikko, how much more of this gap is there, where are you going to finance all this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u105	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u106	Mr President! What is meant by avoidance or, in official terms, the undivided portion of the budget? It is common practice for each government to submit to that budget book proposal non-allocated euro for which each government, in turn, has always found additional use in the course of a year. They are called amending budgets. As far as this so-called supplementary section is concerned, it is also the usual way in which each government generally complements its own proposal to Parliament on very technical matters. I hope, Mr Heinonen, that these basic practices were made clear in this speech. And as for whether it is still undivided for next year, there will be, but of course we have now committed it to a slightly higher level of the share of this bet's beneficiaries, which has been different from the previous one. And the police appropriations you mentioned — which I think is the right decision and which is important for the security of society — will be implemented by means of the amending budget procedure for this year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u107	Thank you. — Representative Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u108	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Purra painted the EU's climate action as a big boogeyman that takes away industrial competitiveness and work from Finns. I'm saying it's exactly the opposite. I have visited a lot of companies now, and the last time I saw this kind of buzz in the business field during the IT boom many ten years ago. Companies will contribute to solving this climate change. If we do the right thing, it will bring Finnish work and Finnish companies competitiveness. I would argue that in a few years' time we will be in a situation where, in this anti-climate work, companies will go faster than we decision-makers in this Chamber will be able to regulate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u109	Minister Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u110	Mr President! Mr Sipilä is quite right — that is exactly what is happening. At the moment, there is a huge amount of investment in the green transition, in the technology that it is calling for. If we look at how money is currently moving around the world, it is precisely this green investment. That is why it is extremely important for us in our own sustainable growth programme to invest heavily in the same field of public money, which will then be used for business money, so that we can multiply the investments in green transition. That way we will also have solutions to sell to the world, and we will be able to ensure that our business and business lives are doing well, and this will also give us more jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u111	Thank you. — And one final question on this whole. Congressman Häkkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u112	Mr President! I will return to this original point because this debate has now disappeared and there is still no reply. So in this decade after the corona, Europe and Finland are facing a debt blindness. That's why we're asking this question. The rules of economic policy in Europe and Finland have sought to keep a clear eye on the decision-makers so that the small economy is not pushed into a spiral of debt and Europe will be able to cope if it does not fall into a spiral of debt. That is why we have been concerned that this government is now implementing this domestic debt policy at EU level. The Prime Minister is talking everywhere about this now that green investment, digital investment, knowledge investment should be allowed. Rules and borders are being violated both at home and in Europe. That is why it is incomprehensible that this government does not feel that it is so important that it takes a position on this matter in time, that it should seek allies from other countries and that it would prejudge this. You're staying again, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u113	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u114	Mr President! There were also some criticisms as to why Finland has affected the fiscal acquis in this way by means of a joint statement with seven other Member States several weeks ago. Firstly, the Commission’s assessment — not the proposal — of this whole continuation of the economic framework was published this week. Which means it's a little late. Finland is not here; on the contrary, we foreshadowed and indicated that there are a number of Member States for which debt sustainability is an important issue. Mr Häkkänen, I share your assessment that debt is a serious issue and that the balance between expenditure and revenue is important on an EU scale and on a national economic scale. It is therefore good that this year's deficit is now significantly reduced from last year, and it is good to continue this trend. Nor is it self-evident that monetary policy will continue to be the same as it is today, which is why serious attention must be paid to debt. I'll share that estimate with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u115	Let's move on to the next question. — Mr Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u116	Mr President! Last year there were over 3.3 million Kela-substituted private medical visits in Finland, which indicates the need for these services. These allowances are particularly needed by older people, women, low incomes, and in the case of gynecologists, ophthalmologists, dentists, for example, these are practically necessary. Now the fear is that the government will abolish this small Kela compensation in itself, which, however, has been a good incentive to use its own funds to finance health care, and this threatens to further congest the tight public services. However, from a social point of view, a doctor’s visit to Kela will be more affordable than a public health clinic visit, so there is no point in leaving this system to be abolished. My question is: is the government prepared to give up its plans to abolish this Kela compensation and, on the contrary, does it intend to develop:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u117	Minister Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u118	Mr President! The dissolution or reform of multi-channel funding is currently under consideration in the parliamentary committee here in Parliament by various parties, and the government will then adopt its own policies on the basis of its work, i.e. no decisions have yet been taken within the framework of the government. Mr President! As the questioner said, this replacement rate is rather small. It has already been cut by previous governments, and it is so small that 10 per cent of all low-income Finns are often not helped,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u121	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 60 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — — — — Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the House concentrate on the matter under discussion and that the other debates be held outside the Chamber. — Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u122	‘Cats follow good. If you feel bad, look at the cats and feel better because they know things are the way they are. There's nothing to be nervous about. They know that. They are rescuers.” This was a quote from Charles Bukowski. Mr President! The home cat has been a human partner for over 10,000 years. Today it is one of the most common or common pets anywhere where man has settled down. This common history is reflected in the advanced domestication of the home cat. In order to live with man, it has given up many of the wild cat’s qualities and invested in life - making behavior. Although humans tend to experience a cat as a mysterious creature to the point of mysticism, the cat, in turn, reads a person surprisingly carefully. For example, it can follow the direction of a person’s eyes and imitate tricks. Examinedly, it recognizes a person’s expressions and feelings and will push when a loved one finds himself down. Adult cats communicate with each other mainly in gesture language. However, because of man’s lack of understanding of this, they learn special sounds for the needs of human communication. An adult cat, even a mausoleum, usually only when trying to get across the species line the most necessary messages. It is not, at least, a wholly inherited quality, since the sounds vary depending on the cat and the person who is the subject of communication. My cat Emma, for example, has developed separate flavorings to communicate such things as ‘hi,’ ‘desired’, ‘desired’, ‘just being cute’ and ‘coffee smells like butter’. Mr President! However, we do not live with cats simply because of their beauty and integrity. The cat has spread widely with man because its association has significantly increased the probability of human survival. For thousands of years, cats have protected our grain stores. Since the acute threat of hunger has subsided, cats have moved to protect us from the plagues of modern times, loneliness and depression. Without cats, much more of our ancestors would have starved. Without cats, the national crisis in mental health services would be deeper. The question is, how do we respond to the gifts we receive from cats? Do we repay beauty and care in the same way? Mr President! Unfortunately, this is not the case. Throughout history, cats have been loved, but have also been abused and even cruelly treated. Thousands of cats are still abandoned in Finland every year. Tens of thousands of cats live in cat populations, none of whom bear responsibility. Population cats suffer from hunger, cold, inbreeding, infectious diseases and parasites. The lifetime of an abandoned or wild cat is only 2 to 5 years when a well-treated cat may live for 20 years. Imagine 20,000 abandoned, mostly sick, or starving dogs living in our forests. Wouldn't they write about it in the national media? Wouldn't every government mention it in their program? So, what's with the silence? Why doesn't a cat deserve the same loyalty from us? Man owes the cat money and pays the instalments very cheaply. It's not just our debt to cats, it's also to other species. Man has brought the cat into environments where it does not naturally belong and where its hunting skills threaten other species. There is no accurate information on the impact of cats on Finland’s nature. We know, however, that the domestic cat belongs to the list of invasive alien species of the World Conservation Foundation and has been reported to have caused considerable damage elsewhere. It is estimated that the cat has played a central role in the extinction of at least 33 species of birds, mammals and reptiles. The best - known example is probably a small New Zealander, whose lighthouse keeper’s cat caught extinction. Even though free - outdoor domestic cats hunt, research indicates that they do so much more lazily than cats, who have to feed themselves. Thus, concern for other species is bound up with concern about wild cat populations. Mr President! I warmly support the initiative's proposals for chipping home cats and cutting open cats. The majority of cat populations originate in uncut outdoor cats. On the other hand, chipping enables the discovery cat to be returned quickly to a familiar home environment. As a side effect of the initiative, voluntary animal protection resources would also be freed from cat crisis shutdowns to other activities. In this way, the initiative may also have an indirect impact on the wider development of animal protection themes. However, in order to enable all cat owners to fulfil their obligations, chipping, castration and sterilisation should at least be taken into account in the context of discretionary income support. Mr President! This speech has been drawn up from a human perspective, because the initiative deals with human responsibility and the person is able to see things poorly other than through himself. In conclusion, however, I would like to remind you that this human-centred approach is the result of the level of our understanding, not the order of nature. I think that each species has an equal right to existence and to species-like behaviour regardless of how it affects a person. Jeremy Bentham said: ‘It is possible that the number of feet,the hair of the head of the skin,is equal to the size of the
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u123	Thank you. — Mr Keto-Hovinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Active civil society is a sign of strong democracy. I would like to thank the authors of the initiative for this important initiative to promote the well-being of cats. I hope that this citizens' initiative will be adopted and that the cutting and chipping of cats will become a new normal one. According to the Finnish Animal Protection Association, at least 20,000 cats per year are abandoned in our country. This problem is caused by the poor appreciation, inoperativeness and uncontrolled growth of cats and the emergence of wild breeds of cats, which are constantly increasing in many areas. This is not a summer cat phenomenon, it is a year-round problem. According to a survey conducted in 2018 for voluntary animal welfare advisors of the Finnish Association for Animal Protection, there has been a clear increase in the number of cases of cat abandonment in recent years. There will also be more animal welfare declarations related to cats, and there will also be more and more naturally occurring cats in the care centres of animal welfare associations, i.e. cats that have been allowed to breed out of control without proper care. Nearly 10,000 cats end up in found animals ’ houses, but only one in five found cats are brought back to their own home. Of course, there is an attempt to find a new home for cats who have ended up in animal homes, but some have to be stopped because of wildness, disease, or lack of space. Population cats also suffer from many health problems because they have never been wormed or vaccinated. Often life outdoors causes cats to be malnourished and suffer from various ticks and infections. When cats breed out of control, problems caused by inbreeding may also occur in the population. It exposes, among other things, serious illnesses and even life - threatening developmental disorders. Population cats rarely receive appropriate treatment without animal welfare associations, so they become ill with diseases that could easily have been avoided with vaccines. This means that they can also spread these diseases. Unfortunately, many population cats that are found will have to be stopped. And those population cats that can't be found are going through a lot of suffering, and a lot of people are dying painfully. Mr President! The cat crisis is also strongly reflected in the work of veterinary surgeons in our country, and I have discussed it with several veterinarians. Veterinarians, whom I have met in the area of supervision, have all raised the issue of cats as the most serious problem of animal protection in the debate, the freely increasing number of cats and cat populations. The same point has also been raised in the Finnish Animal Welfare Report 2019 published by the Finnish Food Agency, which was based on a survey for veterinarians. Veterinarians have therefore been strongly behind the objectives of the citizens' initiative, alongside animal welfare associations. The objective of the citizens' initiative is twofold: Firstly, the uncontrolled reproduction of cats must be outlawed. This means that the cat owner has an obligation to ensure that the cat does not become uncontrollable, i.e. to prevent it by either castrating or sterilizing the free - outdoor cats. The second objective is to require all cats to be identified and registered. In this case, it is the responsibility of the owner to ensure that the cat is identified by a microchip and that the identity is entered in the national register. The owner must also ensure that the identity of the register remains up-to-date. The compulsory identification and registration would improve the treatment of cats, since the owner of the badly treated cat would be traceable and, on the other hand, it would be possible to distinguish escaped cats from wild and homeless cats and return them to their owners. Mr President! The current situation, which can even be called a cat crisis, burden not only the veterinarians but also the police, but also the animal welfare associations, whose activities depend mainly on volunteers and donations. As a result, the majority of associations find the current feline situation completely untenable and have called for measures. The addition of these amendments to the legislation proposed in the citizens' initiative would complement the range of measures to address the cat crisis and contribute to animal welfare. The most common arguments against this initiative are the costs of chipping and cutting, the disappearance of landraces and the increase in rodent populations on farms. Of course, the costs of chipping and cutting are incurred, but they are one-off. I also believe that if you have to compromise on basic issues such as chipping and cutting, you may need to think about getting a pet again. No responsible cat owner allows uncut cats to go out unsupervised. If you oppose the initiative on this basis, you are likely to be responsible for the creation of cat populations. Neither is this initiative going to disappear, for they can continue to be raised in exactly the same way as breeders are now. I therefore hope that this citizens' initiative will be adopted here in Parliament, because every cat deserves a home and an owner who takes care of its well-being. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u125	Thank you. - Let's go to a short debate here. — Mr Viitanen, please. — Press the V button, whoever you want.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u129	Thank you. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u130	Mr President! Thank you very much for this important citizens' initiative for its authors and signatories. Thousands of cats live in Finland without treatment, and it is estimated that as many as 20,000 cats are rejected each year. Cat cubs are thrown out of unfeeling cars and left to starve or freeze to death, cats are susceptible to deliberate violence and so on. This initiative does not, of course, interfere with those people who themselves need help and who do this, but it nevertheless has a good and very worthy objective, for example, to make identification and registration compulsory and to prohibit the free exercise and unlimited expansion of uncut cats. I support the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u131	Thank you. — Mr Sjöblom, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u135	Thank you. — Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u136	Mr President! I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative to bring up this important debate. We have a minister who's really fast. We already have animal registration legislation here in Parliament, which now makes it possible to register animals, from which we must of course begin. [MikaNiikkoarvo] I would also like to call on all of us to work towards an amendment of the opinion so that the heartless action to take the cat and abandon it would end with the uncontrollable provision of puppies so that all the cats would receive the care they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u137	Congressman Koponen, Noora, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u138	Mr President! As a two-cat human mother, I would also like to join in warmly thanking the initiativers, because even cats deserve their seats in this Chamber. The cat is one of the most personal domestic animals I know, and at the same time it is one of the least respected domestic animals that is. Two saved cats live in our home: one was found in Tori.fi and another was found in the abandoned barn. Both of these hairy paws love our family so much that they always come back if they sneak out without permission. Even when raised to live at home, the cat strives to carry out its entertainment, and that is why they sometimes run away. Therefore, chipping and cutting is responsible for caring for cats, for these human friends deserve only the best. I also think that we need to help animals and we need to help people take care of their own hairy friends. This citizens' initiative would help both cats and people. Let's not leave any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u139	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u140	Mr President! Thank you to the authors and authors of the initiative on this important issue, but I would particularly like to mention the speeches that have begun this debate, namely the important contributions made by Mr Kontula and Mr Keto-Huovinen. I have to say that when we deal with this initiative, it seems to me that we are now having a debate in this Chamber on the obvious. It is precisely in this initiative that the objectives should certainly be: chipping and then castration, so that cats are cut and there can be no uncontrolled reproduction. At some point I myself have had horses, and I have to say that the cat is such a banisher of gnaws and rodents that they belong to the stables — they always came in at least for the night. I very much hope that we now have a track open in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and we will certainly continue to discuss it here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u141	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u142	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the signatories of the citizens' initiative and those behind it. I can think that some people at the moment claim that this is a pointless debate that is taking place here in the Chamber, and I myself think again that if we have people who grossly reject over 20,000 animals, in this case the cat, every year, we really need to talk about it, because I think there is even something sick about it. These abandoned animals are completely defenseless when thrown out the door, left alone in the courtyard of the summer cottage or even in a cardboard box in the nearby forest. I personally feel that the Animal Welfare Act that is being prepared in Parliament and HE 101 largely respond to the demand for a citizens' initiative, and these objectives, which are in the Animal Welfare Act, should be achieved in accordance with the objectives of the Government Programme that we ourselves have set ourselves. A big thank you to all, including those families who care for these cats who cannot fit in these actual found animals homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u143	Thank you. — Representative Antikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u144	Mr President! I am going to give an even longer speech on this subject later, but I cannot afford not to take this opportunity now that the Minister is there, so I would have liked to ask the Minister: how do you react to the legislative proposals for this citizens' initiative? The fact that cats travelling outside may be killed or tortured has also been raised here, so I would have liked to ask the Minister: will the government, for example, increase the sentence against animal welfare offences? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u145	Thank you. — Mr Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u146	Mr President! For my part, also warm thanks to the initiative makers and all those volunteers all over Finland who work daily for cats. The number of cats in need of help has been growing for a long time and, as has already been said here in several speeches, Finland rejects or is estimated to kill up to 20,000 cats a year. This is completely incomprehensible. Such conduct is shameful and by no means part of the welfare society. It has long been known that problems cannot be tackled without legislative changes, so I very much hope that this initiative will be adopted. And when the Minister is here, I also hope that you will take this very seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u147	Thank you. — Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u148	Mr President! Thank you to all those who have signed the citizens' initiative and to those who have prepared it, and thank you to Mr Kontula for his fine words in honor of the cat. Leaving cats in the wild is irresponsible. The owner should take care of his pet for the rest of his life. The Greens are in favour of the labelling and registration of cats, the so-called cat register, as set out in the initiative. This is also stated in the Government Programme. The compulsory identification marking makes it more difficult to trade animals and puppy factories for cats and to carry out animal welfare offences related to cats. Mandatory sterilisation or castration of outdoor cats prevents the emergence of freely increasing cat populations. According to the Animal Welfare Association, the measure does not impair animal welfare. Mr President! In this context, I would also like to thank all the volunteers who are doing valuable work to curb the population of cats and to treat abandoned cats, as well as all the wonderful cat people who have offered a home to abandoned cats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u149	Thank you. — Mr Salmonikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u150	Mr President! Cat crisis is a fact. According to the Finnish Animal Protection Association, at least 20,000 cats are rejected annually in Finland. Most of these cats are born with the increase in uncut, free-flowing home cats. The background is, among other things, poor respect for cats. Animal welfare associations are incapable of caring for all abandoned animals. Cats must be cared for in the same way as other pets. A reform of the Animal Welfare Act has been agreed in the Government Programme and the cat crisis needs to be resolved in this context. The Left agrees with the objectives of the citizens' initiative and thanks its authors. I myself have once offered a home to two homeless cats, and I attach great importance to the work that these animal welfare workers have done and are doing today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u151	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u152	Mr President! I am sure everyone in this Chamber will agree that this initiative is a good one. It's good from the point of view of animal protection and nature conservation. I would, however, like to see attention drawn to the fact that, as we go along with these good things, there must be the same regulation as that of dogs during the breeding season for cats. And now that there is this chip and everything else, then, of course, we can do something about it. We can't help having indifferent people who kick cats wherever they hurt, let them go and do all kinds of things to them. I do not accept the fact that there is a debate that cats run away, ‘of a kind’. If the cat has been taken, then it will be taken care of so that it does not run away and does not walk free out there and eat the little birds that we have here anyway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u153	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u154	Mr President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. This is a very important initiative, and I hope it goes through as a sock, and soon. I must say that I, too, am surprised at the people who take the pet and do not take responsibility for it. It is absolutely essential that the animals are taken care of when they are taken. This cat population situation has exploded. Now that we still have a minister here, let me ask you this. It is a great thing that this dog registration and identification is likely to be accepted, but it will then enter into force only 23. This registration of cats has been mentioned, but it is still in its infancy. So what are we going to do now at least four or five years before this registration for cats becomes a fact? What are we going to do with these intermissions to make things better for cats?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u155	Thank you. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u156	Mr President! Anyone who has ever taken the cat as their own has often taken it out of mildness into the puppy they have seen, and perhaps even the child’s wish — but anyone who has the cat knows that the cat also touches the heart of those adults, parents, just as the child’s heart does. And I must say, Mr Kinnunen, that not all cats are free to run outside. Very often they run away from home when they too want to have entertainment in the summer to get out. Our cat has been on the run for two months too, and the hope of finding it is still hard in the family. Mr President! It is a pity that people who first show mildness to a pet take it into their homes, then abandon it just like a used sock. 20,000 cats are rejected each year — it is a huge injustice against the domestic animals and the mildness they have shown themselves in the past. It is good to be able to talk about this through the citizens' initiative,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u157	Thank you. — And Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u158	Mr President! When forming a position, it is important to always listen to the voice of people who are best acquainted with the matter being dealt with through their own experience. The Cat Crisis Initiative has announced its support for nearly 800 veterinarians. In addition, on the day of the animals, at the beginning of October, 75 animal welfare associations and other operators drew up and sent a letter to us representatives of the Parliament, which provided a background for the situation of cats in Finland. The message from the field is clear: the current situation puts an excessive burden on animal welfare associations in particular, whose activities depend mainly on volunteers and donations. Now many associations have to stop cats because the resources are insufficient and the law does not support population control. Cats in found houses would find their way home better with the new legislation, and the population would not be born on the same scale. The identification and registration of dogs is mandatory in most EU Member States. We too have a regulation coming into force by the beginning of 23. From an animal welfare point of view, this would be at least as necessary for cats as for dogs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u159	Thank you. — Now, due to the Minister's timetable, a three-minute reply and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the compulsory identification and registration of dogs and cats will be regulated in two stages as part of animal identification legislation. In the first stage, identification and registration will be required for dogs from the beginning of 23. The relevant decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has already been laid down and the introduction of the register of dogs is currently being prepared by the Finnish Food Agency. In the case of cats, the corresponding regulation is intended to make the identification and registration of cats compulsory as soon as possible after dogs. The proposal for a new animal welfare law is expected to be submitted to the opinions in the coming weeks. As in the current Animal Welfare Act, the welfare law would also prohibit the abandonment of animals. In practice, the problem today is not so much the rejection of summer cats in the autumn but rather the uncontrollable growth of outdoor cats and the formation of so-called cat populations. Puppies born into nature go wild due to lack of human contact, often starve and suffer from various diseases and genetic defects caused by inbreeding. A fast - growing animal, as the cat is, may quickly form populations of dozens, even a hundred, in the wild. Among other things, the Welfare Act aims to address this problem by imposing an obligation on the mammals keeper to prevent the uncontrolled reproduction of the animals they hold. In practice, the provision could provide for, for example, outdoor cats to be castrated or sterilised. Mr President! In addition to legislative measures, veterinarians also attach importance, for example, to raising awareness and public information on the proper management of cats. Cooperation between authorities in the management of cat populations must also be stepped up. Information, education, communication for cat owners is planned. In addition, the guidance of the authorities will be specified in relation to cat populations. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and all Finns who own animals: We must look after our animals well and respectfully — care for their needs, well-being and health. It is our duty and it is our responsibility. It is also the most important solution to this cat problem. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u161	Thank you. — And Mr Kivelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u162	Mr President! The cat crisis management initiative is a very important initiative, and I too would like to thank all the authors of the initiative, but also all the signatories. For too long the welfare problems of cats have been ignored, and for too long it has been expected that the decision-makers would care about cats. There is no reason for dogs, for example, to be valued as pets above cats. Unfortunately, however, the situation at the moment is that cats are not valued in the same way and cats are not taken as seriously as they should be. This is tragically pictured, for example, by the annual rejection of over 20,000 cats in Finland, as highlighted in the initiative and as has been pointed out here. That is why it is quite right to talk about the cat crisis. The initiative seeks to protect cats and improve their rights in ways which I myself support and which I myself am pursuing in politics. My party's left-wing association is also in favour of achieving the rights of cats and the objectives mentioned in the citizens' initiative. The initiative aims at two things: firstly, the illegalisation of the uncontrolled reproduction of cats and, secondly, the need to identify and register cats. The suggestion that cat owners should prevent uncontrolled reproduction by castrating or sterilising free-range cats is highly justified. It prevents freely moving and increasing cat populations. There is also a strong support for the proposal for compulsory identification and registration of cat owner information. It is one of the most important ways in which the conditions of cats can be improved through legislation. Compulsory identification and registration can affect not only the rejection of cats, but also the puppy factory and the illegal trade in animals. The identification and registration in general will help trace the cat and cat owner and also reduce the generation of unwanted cat populations. Moreover, it would have a positive effect on the fact that animal diseases are not spread and cats cannot be unfairly traded. The registration of cats is already mandatory in France, Latvia and Slovakia, for example, and it is also coming to Sweden. Well, what are they going to do about this policy to help cats? The Minister has just opened up what we, as a government party, are doing. In other words, the future animal law is intended to include a requirement that the cat owner has an obligation to prevent uncontrolled reproduction. This is not in the law currently in force, but would be a new provision, and its aim would be precisely to reduce the welfare problems caused by the uncontrolled increase in animal populations. Therefore, this requirement for a citizens' initiative will be fulfilled when we get the new Animal Welfare Act into force with its regulations. In fact, I find it regrettable that this law has now been waiting so long. Indeed, in terms of identification and registration, we agreed in the government negotiations that not only dogs but also cats should be identified and registered. For us on the left, it has been important that we get this right now. Indeed, the mandatory identification and registration of dogs has already been decided and will enter into force from the beginning of 2023. And now it is very important that we get this to the same cats and, as has been heard, there is an even more acute need for the registration of cats. Together with the government, we are now going to take these decisions to improve the rights of cats as soon as possible. In addition to these urgently awaited decisions, it is important to highlight how the whole cat crisis is currently being treated by volunteers. This enormous resource-intensive work has been pushed by society into organisations. For a long time it has been seen that it is not reasonable that this huge problem should be left to volunteers and that they will not have the endless resources to deal with this crisis. That is why I would also like to call for more financial support and assistance from the authorities to solve the cat crisis. Finally, I would like to say that animal rights in general should be much more effective in our society. It is a great injustice of our time that people target animals so much violence, abuse and neglect. My big goal in politics is that we can promote animal rights and create a world that would be better for animals than for humans. Animals really do deserve and need more rights and more appreciation. So thank you again for anyone who works for the animals, whether outside this hall or in this room. The achievement of these objectives set out in the citizens' initiative is a step towards a better society for animals, and I am therefore pleased that Parliament is now widely sharing these objectives and finally taking the cat crisis seriously. However, since I myself have been here last season to speak for these objectives as a representative of the NGO and now that we have heard the support of the assembly and the Finns, I think it is appropriate to remind you that, as early as last season, you had the opportunity to deal with this matter, to make a proposal in the context of the Animal Welfare Act, in which the cat crisis, the identification of cats and the registration of cats would have been dealt with. That's when you didn't come out of the opposition, that's when you forgot about the cats. But I think it is great that we now have a government that takes this matter seriously and that it will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u163	Thank you. — Representative Virta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u164	Mr President! ‘Cat value,soon in Finland is a sad little one. “ This is what I was saddened to hear from an animal welfare worker when I visited a local found animal house about a month ago to get to know the situation of the animals. It shouldn't be like this. Each cat is worthy of care, and the value of animals should never depend on how beneficial they are to us humans. Each animal is in itself a valuable, knowledgeable being, and any abuse or neglect of treatment of the animal is not acceptable. We have now received an emergency cry for the rights of cats in this Parliament, in the form of this citizens' initiative. We decision-makers cannot ignore this heavy message from the citizens' initiative, because there is a cat crisis in Finland. Over 20,000 cats are rejected every year, as we have heard repeatedly in this Chamber today. The situation is completely unsustainable. It is a major problem of animal rights, it is unsustainable, but it is also a national, very extensive, round-the-clock and expensive one. I would also like to thank the authors of this important citizens' initiative, as well as everyone who has signed it, for today's Chamber includes the voice of cats, for today's Chamber to stop and talk about animal rights — animals who cannot be here in Parliament themselves to communicate their own rights to us. That is why we people, we decision-makers, have a responsibility to ensure that legislation protects animal rights. We need ways to resolve this crisis quickly. I should've picked them up a long time ago. Now many cats have paid with shocking fate that in Finland it is far too easy to abandon a cat and neglect its care. I cannot help but mention that the responsibility always rests with the person who rejects the cat or who makes it possible for cats to reproduce uncontrollably. It is totally unacceptable and irresponsible. Of course, if man’s own resources are exhausted, if he does not have the strength to care for the animal, help must be available. Mr President! A few days ago I received a stop signal from a citizen who has cared for dozens and dozens of homeless cats over the past few years. The vast majority of these cats have been the so-called population cats we are talking about here today, cats who have been allowed to reproduce freely without proper care. They have suffered from various allergies and diseases. A large proportion of these cats have been found in such poor condition as to have had to be stopped despite veterinary treatment. Unfortunately, this is just one of the many sad examples that I am sure each of us in Parliament has received in recent weeks through e-mail or social media. Population cats are often inbred, suffering from numerous health problems, illnesses, hunger, and cold. Taking care of free cat populations is hard work, and it is expensive. Cat owners or municipalities only contribute to the cost of cat populations to a limited extent. The current situation puts particular strain on animal welfare associations, whose activities depend mainly on volunteers and donations. In fact, a large number of associations find the current cat situation intolerable. Many workers or volunteers themselves are exhausted because of the burden of work and inadequacy: cats without shelter would be as much more than they can help themselves. I can only imagine the frustration and anger that will certainly awaken in the field day after day when one has to see how ill a person is able to treat an animal, how unworthy he is to leave the animal alone without shelter to suffer and, at worst, slowly to die. Updating legislation to meet the needs of the well-being of cats is essential. It is the only way to be able to complement this range of instruments in order to resolve the cat crisis. It is quite clear that the means so far have not been sufficient. The requirements of the citizens' initiative in favour of identification and cutbacks respond to the problems of current legislation. It is precisely one of the most effective means of preventing the reproduction of cat populations that has been considered mandatory by law for identification and registration. In addition, the sterilisation or castration of cats should also be regulated by law so that free cats can no longer reproduce recklessly. Data on sterilisation or cutting could possibly be entered in the cat register. Mr President! I would like to finish by bringing to the attention of this Chamber a quote in which a volunteer who is constantly working to solve the cat crisis describes why, despite all the burdens, he continues to fight for better treatment of cats: ‘I have seen that there are 30cats in the houseyard district, knowing that there are at least 30 more close to the forest. I have seen the health problems these cats have, the condition that a long - haired cat’s fur can get when it has never been treated, how bad the eyes of a little kitten can be caused by infection from outside, untreated infection. Or how, for example, one cat here a moment ago had a piece of the jaw that had left the lower corner of the tooth due to trauma and the two cats I treated had the wrong ossified leg. With these troubles, they had tried to cope by themselves. Because I have seen all this — I have seen what it looks like in the field — I can never stop doing animal welfare.” I therefore believe that all of us in this Chamber today want to thank every animal welfare worker, a veterinarian, who is doing an invaluable job in the field, every volunteer who gives of his own time. Thank you for being here, and thank you for taking care of me. Thank you for caring when the rest of the world has turned its back on these innocent animals. I hope that this Parliament and this Finnish Government will commit themselves to making better legislation for cats. The Government Programme has been signed up for the identification and registration of cats and dogs. It is therefore justified to ensure that this important citizens' initiative is moving forward and that the measures that it requires are genuinely taken, especially with regard to the undivided value of animals and the right to care and well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u165	Thank you. — Mr Petelius, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u166	Thank you, Mr President, for the värderade talman! It is gratifying to see that again in this Chamber a common denominator, a creature, has been found. I would also like to thank the citizens' initiative makers. This is an important topic, and I know that this has been talking about nature and bird enthusiasts and also professional ornithologists for decades. The cat does not belong to the wild nature of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u169	Congressman Antikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u170	Thank you, Mr President. The situation of cats in Finland is shocking and has been for a long time. Over 20,000 cats are abandoned each year, and most of them are not needed by anyone. Almost everyone comes home to their own homes, but cats are left unstricken. In the current situation, reaching the owner of the discovery cat is almost impossible, as only a fraction of the Finnish cats are registered and identified. Many owners may not even want their cats to be found, but will then acquire a new cat after the present one has disappeared. Unfortunately, this is the case for some. This is why it is essential to have both a compulsory identification mark for cats and then a register. Registerers are already available, as the Cat Federation maintains a free microchip register through the Omatikki system, in which you can register both race and ordinary domestic or so-called landists. Mr President! The loss of cats also creates another problem, namely the uncontrolled growth of population cats, which no one cares about. The cat is not part of the nature of Finland, but is a place among people on a sofa or at most as a mouse cat on farms. Wild population cats are susceptible to diseases, and many of them also freeze in winter, causing them great suffering. Animal welfare associations working on a voluntary basis do not have the resources to trap and tame all half-wild cats, and they cannot easily find homes for them. Many, however, work hard on these cats through voluntary and donations. The ban on the uncontrolled reproduction of cats and the sterilisation or castration of free-range cats would prevent the emergence of new ferocious cat populations. At the same time, this would also be an environmental act, as cats that move freely as predators outside Finland cause great damage to wild animals. Free cats eat up to 144,000 birds a month — that is, 144,000 birds a month — on the low deck. This is a shocking amount, so it is also essential to pay attention to the fact that a free cat does not belong in Finland's nature. It is there a very harmful beast, so let’s keep them inside our beloved cats or walk them in harnesses or build a cat garden for them. Mr President! The cat has lived as a human partner for over 10,000 years. It has both protected our crops from pests and kept company with millions of people around the world. Nevertheless, cats are still being rejected and abused. Years of education campaigns have not been bitten, so it is necessary to take action by law if necessary. I therefore support this citizens' initiative. I thank you many volunteers for helping wild cats. It's hard work, and it'll take your free time, but you're still doing it because you care about these creatures, many of whom don't care. Mr President! Finally, I would like to dedicate this speech to my beloved Masa cat, who died last year at the age of 16. He was my best friend since he was 17. I would have liked to have kept him a little longer, but I am grateful to have spent 16 years with him. Masa was a delicacy like her owner, the nicest and kindest cat in the world, who liked conversation and liked other animals and people. Masa had 16 years of happy life, unlike these cats mentioned in the initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u171	Thank you. — There is still time for one speech before we move on to the following points. — Mr Koskela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u172	Thank you, Mr President. We're talking about something important today. We are defending the rights of animals to a good life. The citizens' initiative is important. Cats need to be valued at the same level as dogs, for example. The registration of dogs is mandatory from the beginning of 23 C.E. I hope we get this for the cats as soon as possible. The lack of respect for the cat is now a much-speaked and widely recognised subject, as we have heard today in this Chamber. No other pet in the home has been treated in the same way indifferently, and also discarding is very common in the case of cats. Unfortunately, there is still an old idea, especially in rural areas, that cats can survive on their own in nature. At one time there was livestock farming on a different scale and cats lived there in warmth among other animals. It's different now. The cat today is a domestic animal in the same way as the dog. It regularly needs food, heat, stimulation, treatment, and medical attention and the like, just as is the case with a dog. Appreciation for cats is important, but, as we know and this initiative proves to us, action is also needed. Uncontrollable reproduction of cats should be outlawed, and all cats should be identified and registered. It is the responsibility of the cat owner to ensure that the cat is identified by a microchip and the identification information is entered in the national register. The owner must also ensure that the identity of the register remains up-to-date. It has already been mentioned here on many occasions that 20,000 cats a year would be abandoned, but, as mentioned earlier, this estimate is low. Of course, it is very difficult to calculate it because there is no comprehensive record of cats imported into found animals houses or the number of wild cats living freely in the wild. We cannot know exactly, but we can guess: in free-living populations, one cat can give birth to 3 to 4 litters a year. If the locality has several populations of 30 to 40 cats, it is easy to calculate the order of magnitude, which may then be spoken of. I come from the region where the local association was brought or applied for the cats themselves last year, a total of 1054, and this year this figure will be clearly exceeded. I was given the opportunity to familiarise myself with the activities of the association and how they carry out a very important task with insignificant incomes, and to a large extent with voluntary resources. The stories of the treatment of cats and of the abandonment of their jobs were not uplifting. Some of the populations were already sick because of inbreeding, some had different infections, some of which also infected nurses. If the owner was — in some cases — an older person in poor health, he was not going to be able to find medical treatment to cure these infections that the cats spread. Overall, the activity in this unit I visited was highly professional and also responsible. It was well-managed, and your veterinarian also visited to take measures at regular intervals. Clearly, these animals were cared for with their hearts by the staff. Mr President! By developing legislation, we could together improve the welfare of cats. At the same time, the populations of uncut free cats would be reduced. With the chipping, the cats would be easily recognisable and the owners could be found at the same time. At the same time, as the number of cats found decreased, the burden of animal welfare associations would be reduced and cost savings would be generated. Mr President! Minister Leppä well summed up a moment ago in his own speech how we need to take care of the animals in a good and respectful manner. I support this citizens' initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u173	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u174	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate will continue under the leadership of Mr Niiko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u175	Mr President! The Citizens' Initiative on Cat Crisis Management raises an important issue. This can only be said of the fact that, within a few days, nearly 800 veterinarians expressed their support for this initiative. It is common for cats, especially in rural areas, to be kept free in the yard. In urban areas, too, there is a great deal of it. The owner has an obligation to ensure that cats do not enter places specifically mentioned in the regulations. These include beaches and playgrounds. In practice, therefore, a cat must not be kept free if it is possible to get lost in forbidden places. Cats are also hit by very many cars, and they can even cause dangerous situations on the road. In addition to this, cats also cause a lot of damage to other animals of nature. Mr President! Despite the restrictions, cats are allowed and allowed to go outdoors. Therefore, it is justified to require the owner to ensure that these cats do not allow the birth of ferocious flocks that are not part of the Finnish nature. Already, it is estimated that at least thousands of cats live in free - living cat populations. In addition, according to the Finnish Animal Protection Agency (SEY), at least 20,000 cats per year are rejected in Finland. This is an incomprehensible amount of neglect, which is a punishable act. It is affected both by the abandoned animals themselves and by the future generations that may be born from them, not to mention the wild animals that these cats hunt. Cats living in free populations are not well. They are generally hungry, sick, inbred and wild. They are saved by volunteers and animal welfare associations. Often they are also handled at the expense of individual helpers. Mr President! Of course, not every cat running out is there as a result of unscathed or indifference. Some of the free - moving cats are runaways and wanted. In this respect, the mandatory registration and chipping of all cats proposed by the citizens' initiative would significantly facilitate the return of found animals to their own homes. Mr President! I consider the citizens' initiative to be a good and necessary one. If the law included an obligation to sterilise or castrating free-range cats, as well as compulsory registration and chipping, the State could seek to compensate for the cost of these cats in some way — if not directly from the state budget, for example, from the additional funds to be allocated from this Parliament at Christmas, which the government parties have the opportunity to distribute to all organisations if they wish. This would be a good opportunity for the representatives of the Housing and Environment Section to catch up on funding during this autumn season too. Mr President! I would just like to say a brief word about the importance of the work that many animal-loving people do in their spare time. I have also noticed firsthand when our cat escaped — and is still on the run — how much contact was surprisingly high. I had no idea how much people understand the need in the family for a lost domestic animal. I know that many look for cats and other escaped and damaged animals in nature at their own expense almost weekly and almost daily. For the benefit of these people, it would be good to create some kind of incentive or at least some kind of cost compensation system. Of course, many do so without even any hope of compensation, without any desire, but when we know these animal welfare organisations, which take over and feed and grow them, I would give them some sort of compensation and financial support. Mr President! I hope that this citizens' initiative will succeed in this Chamber and bring greater prosperity to all cats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u176	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u177	Mr President! Cat crisis is a harsh fact. In practice, the reckless growth of the cat population is the result of irresponsible animal keeping. This has to change. This citizens' initiative is on the right track, and I sincerely hope that the government will catch up and tackle this cat crisis as a matter of urgency. When cats grow out of control, it inevitably leads to problems: cats are not properly cared for, the number of stray cats is increasing, and various animal protection problems are becoming more common. A large number of veterinarians are behind the initiative. It further underlines the importance of this initiative for professionals in the field, many of whom face the challenges of the cat crisis in their own work. Disadvantages related to cats and cat populations can in practice be influenced by increasing knowledge, increasing the value of cats, public action and the development of legislation. A year ago, the Finnish Food Authority published a report on the well-being of cats, in which, among other things, these issues were raised. This citizens' initiative aims to improve the role of cats, in particular through legislation. The initiative proposes to outlaw the uncontrolled reproduction of cats. In practice, this would mean sterilisation of free-range cats. The proposal is extremely good because it is the only way to limit reproduction. At present the situation is unsustainable, and in some places the number of stray cats is alarming. — And here I would like to thank the many volunteers, the found animals, the individual people who think about animal welfare and do a really great job. Another key proposal for a citizens' initiative is to make the identification and registration of cats compulsory. In the case of dogs, the registration issue is becoming mandatory, but there is no such thing as this in the case of cats so far, which is truly regrettable. It has been mentioned, but that, because it comes into force, takes several years, and something has to happen in the meantime for the cats. I myself have drafted legislative initiatives and other parliamentary measures for the registration of cats and for animals in general, and I am extremely pleased with this proposal for a citizens' initiative. I am very much in favour of this. I believe that, in the context of a broader reform of the animal welfare law, it would also be a natural place to make the registration of cats compulsory. Mr President! There are a number of positive aspects to the identification mark. Increasing the identification and registration would, for example, promote the return of found animals to their owners. It would also make illegal trade in animals more difficult and reduce animal abuse. In terms of animal responsibility, it is essential that identification and registration should increase the commitment of animal owners to their pets. If registration and labelling were mandatory, it would no longer be possible to just take cats piled up as pets, and perhaps more would be cut. Indeed, I wholeheartedly support this citizens' initiative. The achievement of its objectives would be a huge leap for the rights of cats in Finland. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the very unfortunate events that have occurred recently, such as the electronic punishments of dogs and also the beatings of dogs in connection with the practice of protecting dogs. The problems of racing became an MOT program, with drools: when they are pulled too hard, a lot of horses have a broken mouth inside. There have been 61 bulls who have died when perhaps the producer's financial problem was so great. But in the case of producers, when they keep animals, the side is that it is so hard work, and it may be that the financial problems are so great that they cause mental health problems and that is why this is happening to producers. These are big, serious issues and they must be addressed. There is far too little control. And, for example, the fact that we have access to an animal - keeping crime to check whether the law has been complied with is almost impossible. There would also need to be a lot of legal changes, usually to this entire animal welfare. It's not out of people. It must now be admitted that, although we are talking here about animals and the situation of cats, it is not out of man. We rarely talk about animals. Next March the welfare law will come before us, and then we will probably talk more about it so that it will be as good as possible. But today, when we've been talking, it's really not worth thinking about that it's out of people. Everyone wants animals to be treated well. At least I hope so. Finally, I wish that Stella of Niikojen could be found, and I hope that the Masa cat will also remain in memory. And then I want to say one more thing: Jussi Hokkanen sends his warmest greetings to Jyväskylä. I met him at the Nordic Fitness Expo. He's also a former athlete, like me. He has a cat, a Rocky cat, and another cat named Arska — Arska and Rocky. Rocky Cat's about to turn 25. I've never heard of someone's cat being that age. I've heard of 20-year-olds. Rocky has a very lovely home, and I would like every cat and every animal to have the wonderful home where they are taken very well care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u178	Thank you. — Representative Lohikoski absent. — Representative Said Ahmed, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u179	Mr President! The Left Alliance's line is that animals have absolute value. Cats should be cared for in the same way as other pets. In Finland, at least 20,000 cats are rejected annually. Most of these cats are born with the increase in uncut, free-flowing cats. The background is, for example, poor appreciation of cats. Animal welfare associations are incapable of caring for all abandoned animals. The explanatory memorandum to the citizens' initiative suggests that the identification of cats will save resources for animal protection. Reaching the injured cat’s owner and thus getting care for the cat would be faster by means of a registered identification chip than it is now. In addition, compulsory labelling would make it more difficult to trade cats, puppy factories and animal welfare offences against cats. It would be possible to demonstrate the responsibility of the owner by means of an identification mark. The cat crisis is a fact and has been agreed in the Government Programme to complete the reform of the Animal Welfare Act. This must also be done in the case of conditions in cats. Municipalities should also take more responsibility for dealing with population cat problems. The Left is also in favour of setting up a body for animal welfare cooperation and increasing the resources for animal protection control. We thank the authors of the initiative for their very important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u180	Thank you. — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u181	Mr President! Thank you very much for the initiative, which shows that Finns are very much interested in animal welfare and that citizens' initiatives raise important shortcomings, which are then being corrected here. The Greens are in favour of the labelling and registration of cats proposed in the initiative. The Greens also have an animal policy programme with a number of guidelines for improving the status of animals. Animals must have a much clearer, better place in society and be given more attention. Animal welfare problems must be prevented. This is the second objective of the green lines, and quite a bit is now in the middle of this. It is great that this is also a matter of extensive cooperation here and that we are able to tackle one of the worst animal protection problems — the problem of abandoned cats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u182	Thank you. — Mr Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u183	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is important. Thank you very much to all those involved that we will be able to speak on this issue and on this subject today. The number of cats who need help has been growing for a long time, for years, and Finland rejects or kills as unwanted, according to animal welfare associations estimates, about 20,000 cats a year, as we have heard several times today in various speeches. This is shameful behavior. One out of every five cats finds their way to an end. The feral cat populations are increasingly in poor condition and are increasing uncontrollably. Warmer winters brought about by climate change will also enable more litters to be born in the future. The fact that dogs are more valuable than cats, for example, shows that the majority of dogs are identified and registered in the register. In the case of cats, the practice is less common, unfortunately. According to experts, mandatory identification and registration would effectively prevent the emergence of strayed cat populations and help restore lost cats faster to their owners. Up-to-date identification markings would also reduce the costs incurred by municipalities for the care of found animals. The owners of deliberately abandoned cats would also be brought to bear more quickly. Dogs and cats should be of equal value as pets. Therefore, the requirement for identification and registration must be strictly laid down not only for dogs but also for cats, and the uncontrolled reproduction of cats proposed in the citizens' initiative must also be made illegal. From the bottom of my heart, I hope that this initiative will be adopted and that the cats will receive the appreciation they deserve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u184	Thank you. — Representative Kalmari absent. — — — — Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u185	Thank you, Mr President. The level of national civilization is reflected in the way it treats its animals. Cat crisis citizens' initiative is an emergency cry from over 56,000 citizens, over 700 veterinarians and over 70 Finnish animal welfare associations for cats. Homeless cats are a problem I thought we'd already lost. However, this is not the case. The mass abandonment of cats is by no means the solution. As long as uncut cats are out, new populations will emerge, and soon we will be in the same situation. One cat can have two puppies a year, which in turn are sexually mature at six months of age. The identification and registration of cats and the cutting of outdoor cats would greatly facilitate the protection of animals. Cats found in cats’ homes would find their homes — now only a fraction of them would be taken home — and the population would not be born on the same scale. Mr President! The objectives of the citizens' initiative are simple and good. Uncontrollable reproduction of cats should be outlawed, and cats, like dogs, should be identified and registered. Even so, simple measures will improve the ‘lawlessness’ of cats, prior to any well-being. But without the force of law, fine talk about voluntary chippings and cuttings of cats is easily left to the level of speech. As mentioned in the initiative, making identification and registration mandatory would contribute to the safe and rapid return of finders to their owners. The identification of cats would save the resources of animal protection, since the majority of the captured cats are currently not returning to their owners. In addition, if a cat is injured when found, contact with the owner is quick with a registered identification chip and it is much easier to get the cat covered by acute care. In addition, compulsory identification would also make it more difficult to trade animals and puppy factories for cats, as well as animal welfare offences related to cats. Above all, registration and identification would promote responsible animal management and increase animal owners' commitment to their pets. According to a study by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, compulsory identification and registration would also be more necessary for cats than for dogs. Mr President! The changes required by the citizens' initiative would therefore provide a good tool for monitoring authorities and doctors and would free up the resources of the third sector for other important animal protection measures. This is a citizens' initiative that can be backed up by anyone who is familiar with the matter in a civilised state. Thank you for your attention to the cats.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u186	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen, Hanna, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u187	Mr President! We are here today to address the citizens' initiative on the cat crisis. Thank you very much to the authors of the initiative and to the numerous signatories for raising this important issue. The initiative calls for the uncontrolled reproduction of cats to be illegal and for all cats to be identified and registered. The citizens' initiative states that it is estimated that at least 20,000 cats a year will be rejected in Finland. It's a shocking figure. This is indeed a cat crisis, as the initiative describes the phenomenon. The populations of rejected and wild cats are burdening Finnish animal welfare organisations. Although the law requires municipalities to care for found animals, in many places activity is in fact largely dependent on voluntary activities and donations. Population cats are often inbred and suffer from numerous health problems. They are often half-wild and require domestication in order to be able to reinvest them. It is hard and very expensive to deal with populations by voluntary means. Mr President! Man has given the cat many roles, and sometimes it almost feels that cats also give different roles to people. The cat is at its best a partner, an invaluable friend, a family member who is cherished and cared for. For others, the cat is a co-worker who helps in the stables and barns, keeps the mouse population under control and takes care of feed hygiene. Someone sees a cat as a beast that kills the little birds in the yard and mess up the litter boxes of children. For many volunteers, cats are an endless war zone with the well-being of cats, the law and self-sustaining. For municipalities, cats are an expense item employing found animals houses, which is usually tried to manage as cheaply as possible. Many different views, and each of them in their own way right and right. Finally, the cat crisis is about our values and how we want to treat animals, what laws and regulations we use to define the value of the animal, and how we make sure that the animal is treated and faced in such a way that its life with man is meaningful, valuable and good. Indeed, in terms of animal welfare, the biggest problem in Finland at the moment is population cats and cats, which no one recognizes or recognizes as their own. One uncut cat can make up to four litters a year, so even two cats can produce an uncontrolled cat population in a very short time. This is disastrous not only for the cats themselves but also for the surrounding nature. Such problems could very simply be prevented by requiring identification for all cats. The identification marking would also help overworked found animals houses to return cats to owners more quickly and more easily. But identification alone is not enough. In order to safeguard the value of a cat, we need a change of attitude and a law that is capable of safeguarding the good life of cats, as well as the nature and people around them. The veterinary resources and the adequate capacity of the veterinary surgeons to address unidentifiable cat populations as well as the breeding that harms the cat and the puppy factory must be secured. Quality criteria and clear national approaches must be defined for found animal homes to quickly return identified cats to their owners and, accordingly, relocate cats without owners. The sterilisation and castration of cats should be achievable and affordable in order to make it a good and viable option for owners. The public sector should take a clearer financial responsibility for the management of cat populations and compensate the third sector for the costs of trap and transport. What, then, is the good life of a cat? Cats, like all animals, need shelter, food and stimulation, as well as social contacts in order to be well. It is up to us humans how we can meet these needs of the cat. For someone, the only way is to let the cat move outside or hunt mice in the stable. For others, it is built indoor climbing trees and a sufficient number of toys as well as a fellow species with which to associate. The good life of a cat is certainly possible in many ways, and it is therefore important to increase the debate and, in particular, research into the welfare of the cat. At the same time, it is important to take steps in the right direction, and the identification of the cat would help to solve even some of the problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u188	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u189	Thank you, Mr President. In Finland, approximately 20,000 cats per year are abandoned or actually abandoned, and the resources of municipalities and organisations are not sufficient to manage such a large annual population of cats. As a result, a significant number of cats end up being killed each year, and there is reason to put the matter in order by means of legislation. I also believe that the majority of Finns want to control the overgrown cat population. The citizens' initiative in this debate calls for the illegalisation of the uncontrolled reproduction of cats and for all cats to be identified and registered. Mr President! Keeping all animals is a responsible activity. Therefore, legislation must impose strict obligations on pet owners to take good care of their pets and to respect responsibility, for example, in the number of kittens. As mentioned in the citizens' initiative, compulsory identification would also make it more difficult to trade in animals and puppy productions for illegal cats as well as for animal welfare offences related to cats. The identification marking for cats would also save resources for animal protection, as the marked cat would also quickly return to the owner. If the present citizens' initiative goes through here in Parliament, we also need additional resources for animal protection control. This situation in the cat crisis is well illustrated by the fact that the responsibility for the overgrown cat population is unfortunately the responsibility of voluntary animal welfare organisations, because the municipalities simply do not have the resources and do not want to deal with it either. Finally, even good legislation will not have the desired impact on animal welfare if adequate resources are not allocated to animal welfare control from state and municipal budgets. Mr President! I warmly support this Cat Crisis Management Citizens' Initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u190	Thank you. — Representative Suomela absent. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u191	Mr President! As we have heard today, the whole Chamber seems quite unanimous across party boundaries on this issue. We see here that citizens have an opportunity to influence, and it is the citizens' initiative that is a good way to do so. I would therefore like to thank those who initiated the citizens' initiative and all those who have signed them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u192	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u193	Mr President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers and its signatories. Sadly, I have read messages about the increase in the number of abandoned cats and the uncontrollably increasing number of cat populations. In Finland, an estimated 20,000 cats per year are rejected or killed. This isn't right for a cat. And even if there is no need for money in this context, I note that, according to the Animal Welfare Centre, the animals found in our country are estimated to cost about EUR 5.8 million — small streams, small streams, even my wise father-in-law. On the basis of these and the good speeches made by colleagues, it is appropriate to support the amendment of the labelling and registration of cats. Mr President! In my life, I have been happy to see how many people in this country are able to work for animals from morning to evening and from evening to morning. In this connection, I would like to thank them for this unscrupulous work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u194	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u195	Mr President! At this stage of the evening and debate, it may be very difficult to add much more value to this debate with new innovations, although I note that in some speeches there was talk of illegalising the reproduction of cats, that it is, however, illegal to increase it, so that there is no interference with the right to breed cats. The citizens' initiative will intervene in an important matter. These figures on the number of rejected cats are quite incredible, and of course this cannot and must not be the case; some measures must be developed. The initiative will therefore provide concrete measures to remedy the situation. However, in the end this is a matter of attitude. The attitude as to whether all pets are considered important or not is the deciding factor. It may, of course, be that, in a certain period of time, legislation would also improve the atmosphere of attitude in this matter — but in the final stages, that will solve this issue. Furthermore, I would stress the importance of resources in this area, because animal welfare needs resources in any case. At the moment, these found animals are largely on a voluntary basis and with the power of the third sector, and it is the case that the money put into these things is back several times as much as all this is done for society as paid labour. So I encourage you to invest in this kind of activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u196	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Up to 60 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. To the conversation. — Mr Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u197	Thank you, Mr President. The citizens' initiative raises a very topical and important issue that affects far too many children and young people every day. During the fall, I have traveled to both Mäntsälä and Tampere to talk about school bullying. I had a photo show, too. The subject of the exhibition, bullying at school, is, in my opinion, so topical and important that it could be a permanent exhibition in each of our municipalities to remind us all of the tracks that bullying leaves. In my own municipality, students have written their ideas and experiences of bullying inspired by the exhibition, and I would like to read you one of these articles. ‘In a dark state. - Wouldn't you like /Groan accursed, the head ache. I wonder if we / I can hear their laughter from afar, but I don't want to join in. I'm home. I'm home. / You have to smile on your face, but you don't have an easy back for your loved ones. / They won't know unless the truth comes to light soon. / I need my own time. It was a lie. / It's hard to comfort yourself. / Days, weeks and years pass by. / It's like a broken heart. / Can't they just leave me alone? / You can't be safe anywhere in the corner of the eidesoma room.’ Bullying can have very dramatic effects on the life of both the victim and the perpetrator. In recent times, there have been all too often school bullying cases in our media and even serious acts of violence in schools. Sadly, a frighteningly large proportion of the perpetrators of homicide are young offenders. There are many reasons for the nausea of young people that we adults are obliged to address. Mr President! One of the causes of nausea among children and young people is bullying at school. Because of my civilian profession as a prosecutor, I draw attention to the fact that school bullying is not defined by law. Thus it does not say anything about the seriousness of the act. There may be very different actions under it. It may be to cut off another pupil’s pen, it may be to threaten another pupil — ‘smuggling’, ‘smuggling’ — but it could also contain even a major mistreatment. Even serious excesses, such as real beatings, are too often treated in school as mere bullying. How many of us adults would actually accept in their own workplace that another employee would threaten or hit? We're not talking about bullying, we're talking about crimes. It is not just the fact that it is at school that the act should be mitigated in order to be bullied. We have to talk about things by their own names. Crimes are crimes, including in schools, and all these acts are already found in our criminal law. No unlawful act — acts of injury, violence or threats — is part of the school. Regrettably, though, we young people often hear a message that the situation was on and that the adult walked by. I think this is a terrible message. It is the duty of each of us adults to deal with these situations with the seriousness they require. So - called woolly printing or underestimating situations afterwards is a problem. I believe that few parents would go on defending or mitigating their child’s actions,for example by saying ‘sonless boys’,if school bullying is spoken to him and said that your child was in an illegal act that is consistent with,for example, a criminal offence. Children, young people and parents must also be able to rely on immediate action if such acts occur in schools. Acts fulfilling the characteristics of a crime must be responded to with the seriousness they require while there are still alternatives and no one has died. When someone dies, there's no choice. Mr President! The aim must be to increase the well-being and safety of young people, to influence the overall safety of society as a whole. Too often, even in the background of young people’s exclusion and substance abuse problems, there is long-standing bullying, and it is good to remember that schools have an obligation under the Child Welfare Act to report immediately to the police when they have reason to suspect that the child has been subjected to a life-threatening or health-related offence punishable by a maximum sentence of at least two years’ imprisonment, such as ill-treatment. In the photo exhibition I mentioned earlier, one depicted by singer Jannika B states in a text attached to her picture: “We,each pictured,are few different, different from the mainstream,but who has ever made any special time?” That is why I want to say to everyone at this end — both children and young people and all of us adults — never let anyone tell you who you are, but tell you yourself who you are, and everyone is unique and good just the way you are. We must never, under no circumstances, accept school bullying, and I dare say that the use of this generic concept should stop and begin to talk about the illegal acts that are actually at stake. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u198	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u199	Mr President! Mr Keto-Huovinen has already pointed out the points that are relevant to this issue. I myself have spent about four years talking about security for dozens of different groups of people, but every time, despite what has been its original subject, I have decided my share of the performance by telling about school violence. This initiative is extremely important. It's kind of an emergency cry for peace in school. But I do not use the term used in this initiative. There is nothing for me other than criminal acts when the suspect is under 15 years old and crimes when the suspect is over 15 years old. The fact that this issue has been brought to the very top through this initiative is indeed commendable, but is it therefore necessary to impose a specific criminal offence against school violence as a criminal offence? Personally, I don't see the need for it. We have an effective criminal code with all the articles relating to life, health, property, honor and communication. [MikaNiikkoarvo] So we have a working criminal code, we have a pre-trial law on how to deal with these matters, so I do not see the need for a new paragraph to be recorded. But instead, I think it is necessary to do something about this. Whether it is a basic education law or what law, which clearly defines the duties of the officials and what they should do, then in due course it will remain at the discretion of the Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u200	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u201	Mr President! One act of violence is too much. Violence doesn't belong on the streets, it doesn't belong at home, and it doesn't belong at school. Today, in this Chamber, we are dealing with violence at school, an extremely difficult and serious subject, something that you might want to close your eyes to, but all the more reason to have the courage to talk about. We adults and we decision-makers have a responsibility and a responsibility to ensure that no small mind is broken. For my part, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for bringing this serious issue to the table. There cannot be too much debate in this society and in this Chamber about safeguarding the rights of children and young people. In this society it simply cannot be that when a child or young person is desperate to tell what is happening at home or how much he fears during recess, that need is ignored. It cannot be that our professionals are so overloaded that the child is invisible with its emergency, or that the child is drowned in piles of paper on the desk. Under no circumstances can we afford to ignore the plight of any child or young person. Earlier, while working in the school world and in child welfare, I encountered many children and young people whose schooling was overshadowed by fear. Violence at school has serious consequences that no child or young person should have to face. They make it difficult to concentrate and learn, to regulate emotional life, to reduce well-being, to cause mental health and substance abuse problems and trauma. And what a long trail of school violence can leave! Similarly, when I was doing therapy with adults, I often had to hear how deep - rooted scars can be reflected in long adulthood, working life and family life. When school violence has not been prevented, when we as a society fail to protect every child, the least that help and support is available in time, for the experience of that violence can at its worst lead to the breaking of its own mind, to the end of our powers and to the end of our own lives being seen as the only way to escape that unbearable fear, anxiety and evil. And I can't let that happen. We must not allow any child or youth to slip out of our hands. We don't want to and we can't afford to lose any of them. Mr President! Every child and young person should be able to feel valuable. Every child and young person should know that they matter. Surveillance cameras and harsh disciplinary measures do not in themselves create a sense of security if a child or a youth feels that it is impossible to talk to adults, that they are unable to help, or that the situation gets worse if you tell anyone about it. A sense of security also arises from the freedom to be oneself without fear of discrimination or harassment because of their personal qualities. Every child and young person must succeed in protecting against any form of abuse and in preventing them from becoming involved in a role in which they themselves hurt others. This is where the responsibility lies with us adults. We have a heavy place to be examples of how to interact, how to face differences, how to interfere and how to care about people around us. I would like to stress how vital it is for these problems to be addressed in time. You can't put too much effort into prevention. It may sound like something we're always talking about, but it can protect childhood, it can safeguard unbroken youth. We need effective student care, we need a home and school to work together. We need sufficient resources to ensure that each student has sufficient support on his or her school path. We know how burdened our valuable work in the field in the social and cultural sectors is. They should be able to do their work with sufficient resources without their own exhaustion in their work, for our society needs every one of them, and each one of them has an extremely important place in the childhood of our children and in the youth of our young ones. And school staff alone cannot now be seen as a solution to everything, as investing in the overall well-being of families with children will certainly have an impact on how children and young people in schools or educational institutions can and will behave. In this case, for example, the role of multiprofessional cooperation must be seen from family services to social services and the police department, without forgetting the role of parenthood and adult mental health and substance abuse services, because nothing is as important as securing that childhood and complete youth. It is important to remember that when we take care of the well - being of adults, we always take care of the everyday life and the environment in which that childhood and youth actually take place and take place. Mr President! Finally, I would like to emphasise the importance of working in this society to cut off all forms of violence, all forms of violence and all its cycles in this society by eliminating the overgeneration of violence. We cannot forget that school violence is also a developmental risk for the child or young person doing it. It is important to succeed in tackling the causes of violence. For example, the implementation of the non-violent childhood action plan requires that basic services — such as maternity clinic services, early childhood education, school health care, education care — be secured and that they work so well and so well together that it can be assured that when we have an emergency for a child or a young person or a family, so early support, guidance for care, care and access to help will be truly realized. A follow-up study published by Amnesty in 2021 shows that the efforts made by municipalities to combat violence are inadequate and regional differences are large. The responsibility for the practice of combating violence has so far been to a large extent the responsibility of the municipalities, but the structures of violence in the municipalities are weak or absent. Experts have suggested that a law determining the structures of violent work should be adopted in Finland. I therefore believe that it would be important for the government now to find out what kind of law would best help to combat violence. If successful, such a law could bring obligations and clarity to a fragmented current situation and contribute to the planning and development of violent work. With the law, we could ensure that services are genuinely offered on an equal basis throughout Finland, regardless of where they live. I have therefore submitted a written question to the minister responsible, since it is also timely from the point of view of the welfare areas to be established. We should do everything we can to prevent any child from facing any form of violence, not on the street, not at home, not at school, for no small mind should be broken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u202	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u203	Mr President! It is great that the citizens' initiative has tackled an extremely important issue. School violence and bullying affect thousands of children and young people all over Finland. The right of every child to go to school without fear must be better guaranteed, and the government also wants to ensure this. Prevention of bullying and violence and tackling these phenomena are the responsibility of all of us. It is important that children have enough safe adults present in everyday life, both in school and in leisure time. Mr President! I think it is important to be precise about the concepts. The use of the concept of bullying at school in situations where violence is clearly at stake is an understatement. That is why we must have the courage to speak of violence as violence. It is wrong that such conduct as that in other parts of society is often called school bullying. At the same time, however, it is important that we also recognise bullying as a phenomenon and that we also pay attention to other manifestations than its manifestations. Based on research data on children and young people, children and young people have precisely the experience that adults in their everyday lives do not see and recognise, for example, bullying and violence in schools. For example, according to an MLL survey, 40 percent of children who experienced bullying reported that school adults do not know about their experiences. It is therefore extremely important that school bullying is addressed in the light of groups and cultures of children and young people. Bullying and violence are not just a matter for individuals; it is often a matter of group dynamics. Both the victim and the perpetrator need help and support, but there must also be the courage to tackle unhealthy group phenomena among children and young people. Mr President! The citizens' initiative proposes the inclusion of bullying in school as a criminal title in criminal law. Although I agree with the content of the initiative in itself, I do not think that this is the right way. In Finland, every person over 15 years of age is already in criminal responsibility for what he or she has done. Thus, school violence can already be condemned at the age of primary school but not at the age of 15. At present, bullying at school often fills the hallmarks of persecution, defamation or abuse, for example. So the new title of crime would actually bring nothing more and would only take on the most flagrant cases, while many less severe but mentally traumatic cases would still be excluded from the heading. Furthermore, the inclusion of bullying in the Criminal Code would not affect a large proportion of comprehensive school pupils, while a large proportion of bullying cases occur in persons under 15 years of age. Liability for damages for persons under 15 years of age may arise. The initiative does not take a position on reducing criminal liability and it is not justified to reduce it. Many phenomena, such as bullying, are not prevented by extortion of criminal law, but by other measures, such as preventive measures, securing the resources of school staff and closer cooperation with schools, police, social services and other relevant bodies. I am very pleased that our Minister for Education, Li Andersson, has addressed this issue through a parliamentary debate, followed by an action programme to combat bullying and school violence, including legislative changes. The legislative amendments are currently before us in the Committee on Culture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u204	Thank you. — Representative Antikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u205	Mr President! The initiative proposes that Parliament and the government take legislative measures to include bullying in school as their own criminal title in the Criminal Code. This would apply to all extreme forms of bullying, both mental and physical. The initiative is justified in a number of different ways by the initiative, and the arguments are good and absolutely essential. Mr President! First of all, in order to respond to the public's cry for help, I would like our society to start talking not about bullying but about school violence and violence. This would cover both mental and physical violence. This could wake everyone up to the fact that this is actually illegal. That is why I myself use the word “school violence ” in this speech and in the future. I see this initiative as an emergency cry from the citizens to a situation in which violence in schools is not being dealt with firmly enough. That is understandable and the initiative is important. I myself, as a Member of Parliament, receive messages all the time saying that school does not interfere strictly enough with school violence. How many jobs would a co-worker be allowed to beat up another co-worker day after day without any consequences, and if there were consequences, maybe it would be a Kiva-programme conversation? This has been the case and is unfortunately still the case in many schools throughout the country, with a child or young person suffering. Mr President! The law should guarantee students the right to a safe learning environment, but in practice school is still not a safe place for everyone. It is the responsibility of the schools, even by law, to ensure the safety of our children and young people. On the other hand, it is up to each government and decision-makers to secure sufficient resources to enable the school to carry out its tasks. We must remember, in the middle of everything, what this is all about: this is about the suffering of children and young people. School violence can be very brutal. It always leaves a mark on a child or young person, because it is about developing people, and it is the responsibility of adults to protect them. I can’t help remembering for myself the time when my knee was pushed between the door in high school and the door was held by several students. It affected more mentally than physically, although it was very much physically involved and, of course, the knee was painful for a long time, but perhaps the most important thing was the school’s attitude. The authors and I were interviewed by a nurse who discussed why this happened. I, too, had to explain what I had done, that this happened, which seemed unfair because I had done nothing. At no time did anyone bring up the fact that it was an act of violence, and no one, no one, condemned the act of perpetrators of violence, and there was no result to them. Now it hurts me that even today a child or a young person may have been subjected to a similar act. Mr President! No more children or young people in Finland must come into this situation I have mentioned. Everyone must have the right to total immunity in school and, of course, elsewhere, and it is the responsibility of adults to tackle school violence, and schools must be given sufficient resources to do so. At present, lives have already been lost in Finland, especially through suicides, and the most serious form of violence was seen in Koskela when a young boy lost his life. Here, too, was the background of school violence. No child or young person should lose his life because of violence. Nice schools and Kiva talk are not enough when it comes to something as extreme as serious school violence. Not only do we need to start talking about school violence, but we also need to tackle it every single time. At least all cases of school violence should be reported, if not a crime report, then at least some kind of report to the police and a report to social welfare, and I am referring, of course, to the perpetrators. I believe that even in the homes would be awakened if the police or social services contacted us because of school violence. Furthermore, school activities should be monitored to ensure that they do indeed play their role in tackling school violence, and then they should be recorded. Now it can only be the parents ’ responsibility to move things forward — that is not how it can be done. I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative for a very important initiative. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u206	Thank you. — and Mr Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u207	Mr President! Violence is always violence, no matter where it takes place. Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers for the fact that this important issue is once again on the agenda. The means to tackle bullying are diverse, but the goal and will mode must be the same for all actors. A zero tolerance for bullying and violence shall be established. All too often, in child welfare and mental health services, it becomes clear after years that in the story of a child and a young person, an unfortunate turning point has led to bullying and violence at school. The exclusion of children and young people is something that must be done to prevent it. The child must be guaranteed the right to immunity and peace to learn new things, try his wings and grow up on his own. The feeling of inadequacy has a significant impact on well-being at work, and we must also take better care of the ability of teachers. Prevention of bullying must not be left to teachers alone, and more hands are needed in schools to ensure that teachers and children have peace of work. Mr President! Personally, I would like to see more peace talks in the bullying debate. Dispute resolution, compliance with common rules and reconciliation must be at the heart of all educational work. Mediation has a long tradition in Finland. Peace mediation skills must be delivered to all Finnish schools, and in addition to interaction skills, mediation should provide new civic skills. It will be beneficial both in the homes and in the working life of the future. Bullying is never just a matter between a bully and a bully. Help and support must be provided to the victim of bullying or violence, to the bully and to their families. Multiprofessional cooperation, training, prevention, adequate resources and empathy, consultation, genuine encounters and road signs are needed out of a very difficult situation. Mr President! A good example of multiprofessional cooperation is the Ankkuri model of police services, which was originally developed at the Kanta-Häme Police Department. The aim of the action is to address the criminal behaviour of minors early in the day by exploring the overall situation of a young customer and by directing the whole family to appropriate assistance and support. Multi-authority cooperation also aims to rapidly address intimate and domestic violence and thus increase internal security in Finland. The Government Programme provides a good basis for preventing exclusion and bullying. The Government is committed to strengthening student and student care services at all levels of education in order to provide children and young people with the support they need in their own growing environment. The resources of student care will be improved, and experiments have produced good results, including training teachers for solution-centred neuropsychiatric training and the introduction of psychiatric nurses into schools. The Government has developed and set out to implement a programme of measures to combat bullying, which strengthens, among other things, personnel’s skills in tackling bullying and supports children’s emotional and interaction skills in early childhood education. Staff and pupils shall be provided with training related to the identification and intervention of bullying. For the first time, the National Education Evaluation Centre Karvi is going to assess various anti-bullying methods used by schools. We need to extend the practices that have been found to be good at national level, and we need to safeguard the continuation of the effective projects. A programme to prevent bullying is also needed for early childhood education. As Mr Virta said earlier, future welfare areas need coordination in the fight against violence. The regions will have to develop training plans for the continuous development of the skills of key professionals. Effective care and services must be available to victims of violence, perpetrators and children exposed to violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u208	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u209	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens’ initiative makers for bringing this initiative ‘Cultural Violence Act’ to our Parliament for discussion and processing. After all, the initiative proposes that Parliament and the government take legislative measures to include bullying in the law. This would apply to all extreme forms of bullying, both mental and physical. The supporters of the initiative have suggested that a signal should be given here that it would be an unambiguous duty to intervene in all kinds of situations and to take matters forward more vigorously. Moreover, one reason is that this would give a real picture of the current state of violence in schools as an extremely serious threat to the health of the child and the young. This, in itself, is very understandable; this would provide the right headings. After all, bullying at school is a matter of violence at school, either physical or mental. Mr President! In fact, however, the acts which satisfy the criminal mark proposed have already been criminalised. School bullying can fill these legal features, such as abuse, defamation, the dissemination of information that violates private life, injury or illegal threats. However, the proposed form of criminality would not bring any new substance to the assessment of the matter. Even if this did not bring content, it would, however, bring its image. Now that all these serious issues, however, are very much about images, I think this citizens' initiative is nevertheless to be welcomed. This would give a stronger signal to the form of bullying at school when it is referred to as school violence. We have been trying very hard in Finland for years, Mr President, for decades, to tackle school violence. We have different operating models, as Vantaa also has the Nice School system, and there are such Ankkuri activities all over Finland and different kinds of mediation and peace building in such serious situations. These are very good and worthwhile measures, and they must continue to be supported, and they must be pursued more vigorously. In my view, however, this is not enough in many cases. I know this from my own experience. I'm not going to school now, but I'm going to school with my three kids. My oldest child is now in high school and two younger children are still in primary school. And as unfortunate as that is, this school violence has been seen in the case of all three children. This has, of course, led us to try and intervene as parents, and we do, by having discussions with the teacher and often even with the parents of children who engage in such bullying if they simply agree to come and discuss it, but it does not always lead to the desired outcome. I say, of course, that, for the most part, they lead to a good outcome and that bullying is stopped by this early intervention and immediate rigid intervention, but there are cases that they do not lead to the end of bullying, as did my younger son. When it comes to the question that bullying takes a very long time and it is an individual person who repeatedly does this, I think that the only right thing is to do for parents and also for the teacher to do everything possible to ensure that the bully does not change school but the bully changes school. These are extreme measures, but I think they are the only fair measures. For my part, I can say that the bully did stop bullying when the bully changed schools. There was peace in the class. There were other kids in the class who could breathe. There is no need to fear the violence that occurs repeatedly through one child to other children. This is not something that people usually dare to talk about, because this is in a way perceived to be the wrong way to tackle school violence, but I dare say that this works more effectively than just the Nice School system or the Ankkuri action. The sooner the child understands the serious consequences of school violence, the better. On several occasions, the Finns of Peru have already suggested that legislation be promoted in one way or another where the bully changes schools instead of being bullied. For me, both of these experiences have been in my family. I have noticed that a child’s delicate growth and trust in others can be damaged for a long time if it is not corrected. I therefore fully understand the distress call of the parents through this citizens' initiative. This citizens' initiative sends out a clear signal that we will intervene more firmly and not just talk, for example, as decision-makers in schools, which I myself have done a lot of. That's not enough. Parents do not expect us to take different initiatives, talk about things and increase the presence of the police in school and ask parents and teachers to report to the police on a low threshold, but we are expected to take legislative measures if this issue is not resolved. Mr President! Finally, there is one more fact. Of course, I am the age group when, at the time, there were observation classes in schools, which are called special classes, and I think it worked. I was not in the observation class, my brother was and many other friends, and at least the biggest problem left the class because they were growing in a different class in accordance with a different type of teaching program. Of course, I understand that we want to involve everyone in this normal school activity, but is it perhaps wiser, in some cases, to go back to a system that removes students from classes who pose a threat to the physical and mental health of another child? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u210	Thank you. — There is obviously a willingness to debat, and Minister Andersson has also asked for the floor. If now, Minister Andersson and then a short debatable tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u211	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to thank the authors of this initiative and also all Members of Parliament for the fine speeches that have been made today across the party borders. There has been a debate on terminology here: what are we talking about when we talk about violence at school or bullying? I myself have always made it a habit to talk about both of them: bullying at school and violence at school. I believe that this is important because it is a signal that violence is a criminal activity and violence is spoken of as violence, but it is also not forgotten that acts which do not fulfil the characteristics of crime but which, nevertheless, can have a very negative impact on the well-being of children. For example, there is talk of making a mockery of group or exclusion, of situations of this kind, which are very closely linked to this bullying at school. Many Members have already commented on this aspect of criminal law and, as has been said, many acts of bullying in schools have already been criminalised. It may be a defamation, it may be the dissemination or publication of information that violates private life, it may be either mental or physical violence that fills the mark of abuse. So what, then, should be specifically addressed in order to genuinely change things there in schools and colleges? Firstly, I think it is extremely important that everyone who works with children and young people is aware of the obligations and reporting obligations already under our law. Today, too, there has been talk in this Chamber of the obligation to notify the guardians. Such a duty is already in the Basic Education Act. Parliament is currently considering a legislative proposal to extend this to the second stage. The Child Welfare Act already obliges professionals working with children to contact the police and child protection in the event of serious acts of violence, for example. It is equally important to understand that educational professionals can and may be in contact with the police, for example, in situations where there is no certainty as to whether or not the offence is a crime. It is not for teachers or the principal to judge, and it is always worth contacting the police if it is a more serious act. This may also be the case even if they are under 15 years of age. We have very good experiences in projects across Finland where the police have been involved in investigating serious actions by persons under the age of 15. It is also a way of communicating with children about how serious an act is.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u212	Like this. — Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nikon's speech has given rise to a willingness to debat, so those who now want to use the reply will stand up and press the V button. — — — — Congressman Elomaa will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u213	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. When it comes to bullying at school, to violence at school, it is shocking that it has been around for ages, but it is still there today — perhaps a little less, but more brutal. I have a little longer to speak then, but now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask — this very truthful, courageous and good speech by Mr Nikon, who had his own experience, set such a question: does the Minister, the teachers and principals, have sufficient powers at the moment to actually take up these bullying cases?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u215	Mr President! I would like to take this statement by Mr Nikon that the current legislation is good and gives us the tools, but a change is needed in order to give the right signal. I do not believe that this is the meaning of legislation. It is often the case that the more complex and difficult the social phenomenon, the harder the solutions are presented. But the Nordic criminal policy has for a long time stressed precisely this kind of broadness, and particularly important for children and young people. So the central issue is to consider the relationship between the benefits and disadvantages of penalties, i.e. the impact of penalties on children and young people, in this case young people. In other words, every time we propose tougher measures, as in this citizens' initiative, we have to look at that overall benefit from the point of view of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u216	Like this. — Mr Niikko. - And then there are others.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u217	Thank you, Mr President. I justify this need for legislative change in the same way as those involved in the citizens' initiative argue that even if criminal liability is only 15 years old, such action in the adult world would then be called either mild or gross abuse or defamation. In a way, such terminology, which speaks of bullying at school, hides its severity and its suffering behind its term. In a way, bullying in school itself may already contain such a characteristic or an idea that both can be involved in it, as Mr Antikainen has said from his own experience. In that sense, it is very important that things are spoken in their true names. Such terminology would, in a way, give such a more serious view also to the potential factor and parents, what is at stake. Finally, I would like to say that about every twenty children and young people have experienced bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u218	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u219	Mr President! Last winter, a programme of measures to prevent bullying was published in cooperation with many ministries. There are 14 different measures in the operational programme and they are all good, but I would just like to raise one important point which, in my opinion, has not yet been raised in this debate. The development programme highlights the development of hospital education and, in this context, the increase in hospital education places. In other words, children and young people whose problems are linked to bullying, self - destruction, depression, or schoollessness for the above - mentioned reasons need help, or psychiatric help. We currently have far too few psychiatric places for children and young people in hospitals, and they rarely receive the psychiatric assistance that would be a priority. This model focuses on cooperation with children's and young people's psychiatry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u220	And now, Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u221	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the authors of the citizens' initiative. This is a topical and extremely important issue. Every now and then, there are issues in the House that make you feel that sometimes it would be easier to be quiet because of its gloom, but that is the problem. Easiness must not be a guiding term, and I am very grateful that this issue is being discussed. One of the main causes of nausea among young people is bullying at school, and this is the terminology that comes into play. School bullying, school violence — is school bullying by any means a strong enough term? Exclusion from ill health — is it exclusion, or is it exclusion? These are extremely important issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u222	And Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u223	Mr President! In my own speech, I will also give a more detailed explanation of my view of the matter, and I too will have it based on personal, really harsh school bullying experiences. There has now been a good debate on this initiative. The purpose of the initiative is not to increase the number of penalties. The aim is to underline the seriousness of the violence at school and thus also to give those working with children a clearer obligation to address cases of violence at school. It is true that it is already an obligation, but for some reason the current model has not worked. This presentation would provide tools to help both the bully and the bully, the help that both parties need in this matter. There are clearly shortcomings in the current state. Cooperation between the authorities is simply not working well enough today. The teaching staff, student care, social services and the police should cooperate better, and one of the objectives of the bill is also explicitly to strengthen this cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u224	And Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u225	Mr President! Thank you for an important initiative. School bullying and school violence are a serious social problem that needs to be addressed better. You're learning your friend skills in early childhood education. The government has already done a great deal, including a national strategy for children. However, I cannot ignore the fact that when we talk about what we can do, it is about resources. It is a question of what kind of work equipment, the opportunities to tackle bullying, we give teachers both at national and local level. Some parties have actually been more prepared to cut out of education than others. In my own hometown of Helsinki, the Coalition Party in particular has pursued objectives where school resources are lower than those of many other parties. That is why I hope that this will also be common when we take the concrete decisions at local and national level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u226	Congressman Sjöblom.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u227	Mr President! Addressing bullying and school violence is one of our most important tasks. Bullying and violence can cause serious traumas that accompany you throughout your life. This citizens' initiative is important and timely. It is essential that things are spoken in their proper names. When bullying fills the signs of violence, then you have to talk about violence rather than bullying. Although criminal liability does not start until the age of 15, it is important that violence is dealt with earlier and that the child who commits violence becomes subject to the right kind of assistance and guidance. When social workers and the police catch a child who is violently behaved and begin to settle the situation, the teacher’s burden will also be reduced. And when the minister is here, I would like to ask the Minister: the South Karelia model clearly distinguishes school bullying and violence from each other and the social worker and the police intervene in the bully's actions. Could this model be used across the country? This one's had one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u228	Like this. — And now, Mr Reijonen, followed by a reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u229	Mr President! School bullying is always a serious matter: crying, calling names, concealing, bruising, broken things, and a lot of bad feelings. The citizens' initiative concerns bullying at school and the need for school violence to be recorded in the law. Everyone has been bullied or bullied or followed side by side bullying or seen cases that can be classified as bullying. It's always been awkward, for decades. The question may always be asked why no one intervened, why the bullied did not mention his bullying. Fear is the one that works. You don't have the guts to talk because you're scared. They're afraid you'll be bullied. Bullied people don't always dare tell their friends or parents. This silence from bullying is serious and leads to even more serious problems. It makes sense for a bully to change schools instead of being bullied. When bullying is dealt with in time, the damage is smaller, always.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u230	And now, Secretary Andersson, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u231	Mr President! Mr Elomaa asked directly whether, in my opinion, teachers have sufficient powers to intervene in cases of bullying. We therefore have, at the moment, in the legislation, the power to remove the student from school for the remaining day of school, if he is a danger to other pupils, for example, by referring to what Mr Niikko has already pointed out here. One of the amendments proposed — and this legislation is currently being discussed by Parliament — is that it would be possible to remove the remaining school day and the next full day, and this is a single change, as has been proposed, among other things, by the expert group which, during the last parliamentary term, made proposals on how we should develop our legislation and action to prevent bullying. In other words, such a proposal has been submitted to Parliament. Then, with regard to Mr Sjöblom's comments on this South Karelia model: I have just referred to this in my own speech, that is to say, as one of the examples of good practice which has been gained by involving the police, for example, in the investigation of cases under the age of 15, as if it were a way of highlighting the seriousness of things for children. There is no obstacle whatsoever. I understand that many localities have started to develop similar approaches, and one part of this anti-bullying action programme is now that we are also collecting information on the operating models used across the board, assessing them so that we can then make better use of those that have been found to be the most effective and the best at some point. Since this kind of local development work is being done so much, it is also pointless to have to re-invent our own operating models, as it were, when we already have proven practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u232	Like this. — And now to the list of speakers, Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u233	Mr President! Indeed, I would like to thank once again the citizens' initiative makers. This issue — bullying at school, violence at school — is always here. For years, bullying has been done, and it has not yet been possible to tackle it in such a way that it has been stopped so that people do not tease there. This has caused a lot of people in life trauma — it may be that it spoils life for a long time. And it must be said that today’s bullying is quite often also done in social media, or online, and it is said that it has been a little scratched by what it once was, decades ago. And when it's there in social media, it's kind of like hiding, so it's really hard to get involved. Then I'd tell you about the time I made one of those... It wasn't an experiment, but on Facebook a couple of years ago, when this school bullying piece of shit fell in our midst and we talked a lot about it here in Parliament, and then there were debates and experts in the Civilization Committee too, I did an experiment to put my own phone number on Facebook and a statement that those who know it — they have not been able to get enough help in this situation, their children or themselves — can call and discuss things. And let's just say that my Facebook page almost blew up: there must have been a thousand comments and contacts. The phone rings many, many times. I went there in Varsinais-Suomi to visit a couple of homes when they asked me to visit, and we talked. In this feedback, there were such things that although there was a Nice School on the issue — which has been a good thing, that this project has been done — yet there was no intervention, neither the teachers nor the principal had intervened much since, but the bullying had continued, and it is shocking. But I think that today it is already being addressed a little more, and that is important, because this feedback also revealed that the violence was rather rampant. They had done all sorts of things to these bullies. But I would also like to point out here that the bully needs immediate help and must be addressed in the event of bullying at school. But that bully also needs help. It will not help if we do not get to know him at all, why it is and how it can be tackled. Congressman Niikko suggested that the bully would change schools. But it may be that the bullying continues in the next place, or that there is some major problem, and it may be from home or something else. The fact that there is still bullying in schools and it continues and continues is so sad. And that is why, among other things, Karvi is now going to compare these measures, which bite and which are not, and it is a good thing that we should catch up to this issue and get good results, because bullying is taking place today even in day-care centres. The fact that children can go to school in peace and that bullying is, of course, our goal, and that is our Parliament's task and also the task of the committees to address it. I'm sure there are ways to do that, but attitudes are essential, and it has to go all the way from home. Those root causes, human situations, must be addressed socially. These problems often come from there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u234	Thank you. — And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the 60 minutes allocated to this debate at this stage have already been slightly exceeded. In other words, the debate and the proceedings will now have to be suspended, but the proceedings will then be resumed at this same sitting after the other points of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u235	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Representative Said Ahmed, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u236	Mr President! Many children and their parents who have been victims of school violence find it unfair to call violence in schools bullying. Many victims of violence find the term to be disparaging. The violence an adult encounters is not called bullying, but assault. An important merit of the citizens' initiative under discussion is that it brings a new useful term to our language: school violence. It is a term that describes much better and more accurately the experiences of children who have been victims of violence. Bullying is both physical and mental violence. However, it is not easy or simple to eradicate violence at school, just as there are no quick solutions to reduce violence. If school violence could be stopped by one change in criminal law, it would certainly have been done by now. Ultimately, success in reducing school violence always returns to the overall well-being of children and young people and to the structures supporting them: Are there enough adults in schools? Do they have sufficient time to intervene in harassment and inappropriate conduct as soon as it occurs? Do children have a safe home and a family that affords proper food and hobbies? Every child has the right to go to school without fear. Prevention of violence is the responsibility of all of us. I also have a personal touch of bullying at school. Back in the day, when I was an elementary school student in North Karelia — when our family moved to Finland, I didn’t know the language — I always remember on the way to school being bullied by me and my brothers and sisters, we were attacked. Many times it occurred to me whether to quit school or to find another way to go to school. School violence often leaves a child and a young person with memories that are hard to forget. I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for the good opening of the debate. We have so much to do in this country to eradicate school violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u237	Thank you. — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u238	Mr President! Thank you very much for an important initiative that affects so many schoolchildren and those who have gone to school. In this Chamber, too, many have told of their own experiences. School bullying and school violence is a serious social problem and we need more courage to tackle it. Over the past year, we have once again received serious reminders as to where violence in schools can lead at its worst. In most cases, violence or bullying, exclusion from the group, silent bullying, occurs invisiblely outside of media attention, and even those close to you do not always know about it. All kinds of bullying and violence require zero tolerance. There are particular risks to the physical and mental safety of young people and children in the growth phase. Healthy self-esteem, study peace, safe social relations and success experiences should be the right of all, and they will help in later life. The Government has addressed this phenomenon by means of an action programme against bullying, which strengthens, among other things, personnel’s skills in addressing bullying and supports children’s emotional and interaction skills. On the basis of the programme, a legislative proposal has been submitted to Parliament, in which anti-tagging legislation is already being tightened up in many respects. In this proposal before Parliament, among other things, the principles of school law bring priority to the best interests of the child and the age of disciplinary action and specify the student's obligation not to harass and not to endanger safety. The principal is given the right to intervene in disturbing behavior and to order detentions. There is an opportunity to refuse teaching for two days instead of this previous one day, as the Minister said earlier here. Whether bullying should be recorded in criminal law remains a matter for consideration by the committee and experts and Parliament. The legislation already contains instruments to tackle bullying, especially after the government has issued a rigorous forecast. However, it is quite clear that the implementation of anti-bullying measures in schools needs to be stepped up and, for example, cooperation between the authorities, the flow of information and the sharing of responsibilities need to be clarified. It is also good to consider the model that we adults are setting for children and whether we, as parents, also have the courage to intervene in those situations when we find that a child is left out of play or a circle of friends. Do we have a culture in Finland that we are prepared to raise problems and not just silently remain silent in the face of problems and think that it is somehow embarrassing and worse to intervene in other people's affairs? We should care about every child, not just about our own children, but about the children we face, and ask how you are doing. In addition, it is our duty, in particular, to ensure that the legislation is in place and that the resources are in order. Here, too, in the plenary session, Question Time discussed whether there is now an irresponsible economy after debt, and during the corona crisis, Parliament and this government have provided massive interest subsidies to municipalities, for example, so that municipalities can provide the resources for education, for example. And quite a few parties here have questioned them, and in the past when they were in power they also cut out education and cut out vocational schools and also raised groups in early childhood education. I hope that when we all certainly have a good will to make school bullying, school violence, decrease, stop, we too — every party — will be wondering whether each party is prepared to invest in education and the availability of their professionals, that there are enough adults in schools and in early education, that every child will be taken into consideration. Much is also involved in how group dynamics work, and more skills are needed especially for this. I myself have spent the last few days discussing when a three-year-old in early childhood education might spit on others, and of course children themselves have a lot to think about, learn how to grow up and learn where that line goes: when toy wrestling with a guy is going, when to call a guy by some other name, or whether it's a call. Children will learn, and the most important thing then is that we have staff in early childhood education, skilled, qualified staff and enough adults there. This is something that we can influence as decision-makers in the municipalities. However, quite a few parties who have spoken here are in favour of introducing productivity measures into schools and early childhood education in their own municipality. There has been a very big debate on this in Helsinki, and yes, in particular, the coalition has always chosen the line that it is better to keep expenditure control than to ensure that we always have sufficient resources for education in relation to the increase in the number of children and that no additional productivity targets and savings targets are taken out of it. I hope that there will be consistency in the policy measures that, in addition to important speeches, we can make a genuine contribution to the fact that there will be enough adults at every school and at every day-care centre to intervene in those situations. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u239	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u240	Mr President! This initiative therefore proposes that school violence should be included in the criminal code as its own criminal title in terms of both mental and physical violence. However, it must now be noted that violence has already been defined as a crime in Finland, and the Criminal Code recognises both mental and physical violence, and therefore the implementation of this citizens' initiative might lead to duplication of legislation. Thus, violence is recorded in the Criminal Code, whether at school or anywhere. Violence must not be tolerated or allowed under any circumstances. Everyone has the right to a life without violence. There must always be zero tolerance in this matter and no bullying or violence must be ignored. President! The initiative therefore addresses a very important issue and it is good that it can be discussed in many arenas. Fortunately, the government already has a number of measures to improve the situation, and last winter a programme of measures was published in cooperation with several ministries to prevent bullying. There are 14 measures in this operational programme, of which I will just raise a few of the most important ones in my speech. Firstly, it is important to strengthen emotional and interactive skills in both early childhood education and comprehensive school. Meeting another person, empathy and doing things together can be learned and learned in many ways, and drama and other methods of art, for example, are very effective means. In order to achieve this objective, the training of teaching staff will also be necessary. All in all, increasing pedagogical skills in promoting well-being and peace in work, preventing loneliness and bullying and supporting mental well-being is important and has been identified as a priority for continuing education for early childhood education and education staff and management over the next few years. There must also be more training in basic training for teachers in terms of the capacity to promote well-being, safety and peace in work. School staff also need information on ganging and related issues and how to support and promote positive groups in schools, and to address groups that increase young people's disorderly behaviour and other undesirable behaviours, as well as how to prevent the emergence of youth gangs. An important measure is also the launch of a binding approach to school cooperation in basic education. This model supports both pupils and school staff in preventing drop-out, committing to school, correcting the effects of absenteeism, strengthening the well-being of the school community and also in the fight against bullying. The community culture of secondary schools must also be developed. More needs to be invested in the well-being, peer support, community and timely support and guidance of students. This involves the promotion of a learning community security culture and the establishment of a basis for day-to-day everyday security. In order to achieve this objective, a development and research project will be launched to create effective measures to promote the safety and security culture of the school community. A very important measure is also the strengthening of Ankkuri activities as part of the fight against bullying in schools and educational institutions. The Anchor team includes a police officer, a social worker, a psychiatric nurse and a youth worker. The aim is to tackle bullying and violence in schools and educational institutions immediately, and this multiprofessional team is involved in this work. The methods of youth work should also be introduced into schools and educational institutions. These methods have produced good results in grouping, anti-bullying work, and in preventing discrimination and loneliness. Mr President! I spoke earlier today about the shortcomings of psychiatric care for children and young people in my debate, and that is why the final point of the development programme on developing hospital education and increasing hospital education is important. Children and adolescents whose problems are linked to bullying, self - destruction, depression, and so on need help. Bullying must not be allowed, it must not be ignored, it must be tackled immediately, but even the bully needs help. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u241	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, Mr Mikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u242	Mr President! Thank you to Central Youth and Central Students for taking this important citizens' initiative. It has been widely linked across party boundaries. The genuine concern of young people is common. Young people suggest that preparations be made for the inclusion of school violence as their own crime title in the Criminal Code. Young people feel that bullying at school is an understatement. They also feel that there are problems with the responsibility of school staff and other authorities. The citizens' initiative is a real, genuine problem. Extreme cases of violence have increased in schools, although generally bullying has decreased as a result of determined work. Bullying is a repeated and deliberate activity, it does not happen by accident or by chance. Bullying in social media is easy to miss, and it does not often come to the attention of adults. The growth of violence among young people is worrying. When it comes to violence, you have to talk about violence. Of course, any temptation is painful, marginalizing, threatening the future of the individual. It must be tackled by all means. Mr President! The idea of the initiative makes sense. Bullying is quite an everyday concept. It can mean everything from calling a name to physical violence. Violence must be dealt with under its proper name. It needs to be tackled more effectively. According to the authors of the initiative, registration in criminal law would underscore the seriousness of school violence. Consciousness of a clear crime title could curb the perpetrators and, on the other hand, lower the staff threshold for reporting incidents. Young people suggest that the law should include clear tasks for the authorities in cases of serious bullying. School policies would be harmonised. It would also develop multiprofessional cooperation and, for example, the role and communication of the police. Mr President! The initiative also rightly talks about addressing the root causes of bullying and inconspicuous bullying. The problem with bullying at school is that there is clearly only the tip of the iceberg, clear bullying: naming, exclusion and physical violence. Such acts are easy to perceive as bullying and school violence and are addressed. Bullying must be seen widely. The iceberg beneath the surface is much greater than its peak. It is very important to identify the bullying that is difficult to detect. Man knows how to nullify one another discreetly, discreetly, by gestures that are hard to prove, by making the individual air, by showing that he is worth nothing, by showing that you are not a member of the group. To illustrate, the student sits at the table in the cafeteria. As the voice is silent, no one is saying anything, but it is clear to everyone why we stopped having fun. You don't say hello to the same student, the one next to you. Bullies don't look you in the eye. When the bullies say something, the others don't react. There will be silences that will communicate: what you say is worthless. A student encounters disparaging expressions, raised corners. For the subject of bullying, it is clear, repetitive, very painful, self-esteem-breaking. The difficulty is compounded by the fact that if attempts are made to intervene, bullies can deny everything: there is no evidence, there is no evidence. One day, bullying will also be seen by others. By then, it will be too late to intervene; deep wounds have already been created. Mr President! This citizens' initiative deserves proper consideration in committee. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u243	Thank you. — Mr Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u244	Mr President! I was bullied at school myself. Bullying started early in primary school and continued until secondary school. I know what it's like to go to school in the morning when the crying strangles you in your throat and your stomach. I know what it's like to hope at recess that you're completely invisible. I know what it's like to delay at the end of recess, hiding around the corner, waiting for the bully to leave the house and still be ambushed in the lower lobby of the school. I know what it's like to try to dye your face blue with ink in the schoolyard. What was the name of that activity, was it bullying or was it school violence? At least when I was a child, I feel like a victim of violence at school. I believe that many others in this Chamber are familiar with this type of experience. School bullying is a serious problem and must be tackled immediately, as soon as it is detected. You must also be able to speak of bullying at school by its real name: it is violence. Violence at school can ruin a child’s and a young person’s life for years or at its worst even for the rest of its life. For me, a few good friends survived through school years and cried out. Thank you for that. Bullied is the greatest sufferer in cases of bullying. Bullying can ruin a child’s and a young person’s life for years or at worst for the rest of his life. But it must also be understood that even a bully has problems. Often the background is broken childhood, educational problems, or other reasons for bullying. So you're both in need of help. Mr President! The aim of the citizens' initiative is to include bullying in school as a criminal offence in the Criminal Code. This would apply to all extreme forms of bullying, both mental and physical. The purpose of the initiative is not to increase the number of penalties; the aim is to underline the seriousness of school violence and to give people working with children and young people a clearer obligation to deal with school violence. This helps to get the support needed by both the bully and the bully. The initiative also clearly states that recording violence in schools in criminal law does not eliminate the need for preventive measures. It is important for school to strengthen community and address root causes of bullying. It is also important to strengthen low threshold support and help for those experiencing bullying. Early intervention and screening of bullying are absolutely essential. The aim of the initiative is also to ensure that serious cases of school violence are addressed. The role of teachers would also be improved if the responsibilities and responsibilities and operating models were clear and the same for all. There is no doubt that there are shortcomings in the current situation. There is no clear definition of how teaching staff, student care, social services and the police should cooperate. Nor is it clear in the law how any authority must act in the event of bullying, to whom it must be notified and who ultimately bears the responsibility. Mr President! As a term, bullying at school is an understatement. It hides behind itself both small and large acts of violence. In the adult world, bullying at school would often be likened to mild or gross abuse or defamation. What do you think would happen if a coworker stalked you in the lower lobby of a job and attacked you with the intention of hurting and embarrassing you? There would also be a few other colleagues on the side to encourage and laugh at him. This can't happen. I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative very warmly, and I would like to thank all of you. You have raised a very important issue. For its part, this initiative is a step towards a safer learning environment and should be dealt with carefully in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u245	Thank you. — Representative Kettunen — absent, representative S.H.I.E.L.D. — absent. — Representative Holopainen, Hanna, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u246	Mr President! We are dealing here with a citizens' initiative to include school violence in the criminal code. Thank you to those who took the initiative for raising this very important issue. There have been a lot of good and addressing speeches here today. Our job is to make sure no one has to be afraid at school. Unfortunately, the situation is not so good at the moment. According to the THL school health survey, almost 10% of 8-9th graders experience bullying at least once a week. Almost 15% of respondents have experienced a physical threat. However, school must be a safe place for every child every day. Being bullied leaves a permanent trail. Harassment and violence must be identified, and staff must also have sufficient skills and means to deal with situations. Mr President! There are always challenges to the normal growth and development of a child. The emotional and interaction skills of children and young people should be strengthened in the everyday life of schools. Schools need tools to promote, develop and study more emotional, interaction and friend skills. It is important to strengthen student care resources and to ensure that schools have a sufficient number of curators and psychologists as part of their everyday lives. School youth work and youth workers are professionals in group dynamics and working in groups. Their resources are also needed. Mr President! Bullying is indeed a vague and disparaging expression that does not reflect the seriousness or illegality of an individual act. The seriousness of the acts should be described by their proper names. An unlawful act, such as assault, illegal threats, theft, injury, defamation, breach of media peace, conspiracy or persecution, cannot be mitigated simply because it takes place during school days or on school grounds. In my own country, South Karelia, for example, it has been decided not to use the word ‘school bullying’ at all, but to speak of illegal acts by their proper names. Students, teachers and guardians have been taught to recognize the characteristics of these acts. For all actions, it has also been defined what measures will be taken in each case. There is a working group on illegal acts in the province, consisting of municipal authorities, representatives of the social welfare and health district, the rescue services and the police. This working group has drawn up a joint instruction for the whole province to address illegal activities in schools. In this way it has been possible to ensure that everyone recognizes the characteristics of various criminal acts and that the obligation to report is not left unexploited. The following process of reporting has also been defined: after a report from the school, the offender is addressed in the presence of legal representatives and the police. This approach has proven to be effective and was awarded last year with the National Education Security Prize. Mr President! This model of South Karelia is a good example of the multi-professional cooperation needed to solve the problem. The conditions must be created in all schools so that no one has to fear going to school. School abuse must be tackled by every adult. An adult who proves the situation cannot close his eyes to the situation. Children and adolescents must be able to rely on adults to care and on adults to help.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u247	Thank you. — Representative Asell, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u248	Mr President! We are dealing with a citizens' initiative calling for school violence to be included in its own criminal title in the Criminal Code. According to this initiative, it would be obliged — here it is required — to involve teachers more easily in situations and thus contribute to progress and, at the same time, to develop multi-professional cooperation between school, police and social services. I personally see that it would be precisely this development of multi-professional cooperation and the removal of obstacles or obstacles that slow down these aid processes that are most relevant to these demands. After all, violence itself is already a crime, which means that criminal law recognizes both mental and physical violence, so I do not see the need for that change. Violent crime is a crime both in school and in leisure time. Personally, I have received a message from professionals working with young people that helping young people, for example, in multiprofessional working groups may be difficult, for example, because of strong privacy. In practice, it may be that a young person’s affairs and everyday challenges are trying to solve, so to speak, at the same table as a teacher, a school psychologist, a social worker and even a police officer, and they may have limited opportunities to open up the situation of a young person to other helpers, for example because of privacy. However, everyone has confidentiality obligations, and if, for example, they are not allowed to open things, then helping a child and a young person can become vague and ineffective. One specialist, a special teacher, has described the situation in such a way that it should be possible to talk about it among a multiprofessional helper group, but the situation of a youth must be opened up to others, as it were through the shores, so that it does not become a problem for the helpers. Mr President! With regard to this subject, the prevention of bullying, it is an extremely important issue, and I would like to thank the people who have signed this initiative. There is a common concern, and work should be done on this matter and discussions should be held around the subject. But in addition to the debate, action has also been taken. Last winter, the Marin government launched a programme of measures to prevent bullying in accordance with the Government Programme. The Government Programme’s promise is, among other things, a promise of non-discrimination. Our Finland has zero tolerance for bullying and racism. I myself have been a member of the anti-bullying parliamentary group from the demars, and I believe that this group had at least invited members from all parties. Paragraph 14 was drawn up in the operational programme, which contains a broad set of measures to prevent bullying. I'm gonna bring up a few of them here. Strengthening emotion and interaction skills in early childhood education: A development programme will be implemented to strengthen emotional and interaction skills in early childhood education. The development programme emphasises the need to strengthen the emotional and interaction skills of children and young people as a means of preventing bullying. It is therefore important that these issues be addressed at an early stage. Interaction skills and emotional skills are practiced and, among other things, behavioural problems are addressed in time. Legislative project to ensure a safe learning environment: The aim is to clarify the provisions in order to tackle bullying in a timely manner, to strengthen the student's legal status and to secure a safe learning environment for all at school. Training of staff and management: The pedagogical skills related to promoting well-being and peace in work, preventing loneliness and bullying and supporting the well-being of the mind are defined as a priority for further education of early childhood education and teaching staff over the next three years. Building a website to prevent bullying — this is also one measure: The Finnish National Board of Education prepares, in consultation with students and students, and co-operation between home and school, a web-based website to prevent bullying. The aim of the website is to provide practical guidance and concrete measures to prevent bullying in schools and educational institutions. Ankkuri activities will then be strengthened, i.e. Ankkuri activities will become a stronger part of the fight against bullying of schools and educational institutions: Ankkuri activities will be targeted at young people’s well-being and crime prevention at an early stage. This team, the Ankkuri team, has a cop, a social worker, a psychiatric nurse and a youth worker. And then we also prevent gangbanging by promoting positive groups of children and young people. Mr President! This important issue, the prevention of bullying, has been addressed by a number of other proposals for measures and is on the way. However, this is a continuous effort and various anti-bullying campaigns should continue to be organised. I myself have participated in them many times. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u249	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u250	Mr President! More or less a similar proposal was already discussed by Mr Heinonen at the beginning of last year. I was not very happy with the initiative at the time, because when criminal liability began, the scope of the article presented at the age of 15 would not be very narrow. Secondly, I think we should focus on preventive work, school well-being and its development and education, rather than dealing with problems that have been resolved afterwards, so that there is no room for the bully. In other words, more people will be raised, as well as a nationally high-quality education that supports and strengthens the development of emotional and interpersonal skills, starting from early childhood education. However, since the previous parliamentary procedure, the number of homicides and violence committed by minors has been record. Raw violence is on the rise and crimes are more cruel and deliberate. The perpetrators are not being properly held accountable. The great reason for the violence is also that not everyone seems to have internalized the rules of Finnish society. The citizens' initiative sends a strong message to Parliament and the decision-makers. Effective action must be taken to halt the worrying trend in the school world. But the problem is wide and there is not one right solution to solve it. It requires a broad range of both softer and tougher measures and, most importantly, these preventive measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u251	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u252	Mr President! The authors of this citizens' initiative deserve great credit for having taken such an initiative. Collecting 50,000 names is a really big process, and it's great that it's done here. This is an exceptionally important issue, and it is also topical. Perhaps the most shocking example is, in fact, the murder of Koskela, which took place in which, in the final analysis, the bullying of school was also behind it. The long-term process can even end up with such terrible results. It is stated here that school violence should be incorporated into criminal law. Mr President, I have no position on that. I don't know that. It must then be considered in committee as to whether it is the best way to do this. But at least it is certain that it is difficult, very difficult. Here Mr Huttunen, among other things, described his own situation, and when I myself have experience in this matter, I can say that bullying at school is something that he has experienced, something that he remembers throughout his life. These arrangements are remembered throughout their lives, and they remain here within the soul, and in that respect this is also a big, exceptional thing, humanly speaking. What happens in youth and childhood leaves a surprisingly strong mark. That is why we need to pay serious attention to this. It is already a great thing that we are talking about this, and when it comes to whether this bullying in school has increased — possibly even increased, perhaps the statistics tell us — it is so certain that when we start talking about this issue so much, it tends to raise these issues more and more, and it may be statistically evident that the bullying in school has become stronger. It is, as I said, an ancient phenomenon. Mr President! Such bullying takes place in a shocking, exceptionally unpleasant way, including in the adult world. One form of bullying is precisely to leave aside, to leave alone, and it is great that, for example, football and many other sports have started to play — especially for young people — all those who take part. We are now also discussing from the hockey league that there is behaviour like bullying there, even though it is an adult sport. In other words, this culture of bullying, the isolation of individuals, the subordination of individuals in this way, is a very unfortunate feature of the human community, and it is important that we try to talk about this as openly as possible, and in the sense that thanks to the authors of this citizens' initiative, this phenomenon is also raised to the level of parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u253	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u254	Mr President! Of course, the citizens' initiative draws attention to the right and important issue. The fight against bullying and school violence is a matter for all of us. However, with regard to the measures taken by the initiative itself, I would be a little inclined to think here, as Mr Koponen described earlier, that this separate criminalisation of school violence or bullying is perhaps the most effective way of promoting this good and important objective. However, these acts are already illegal. Assault is illegal, defamation is illegal, and so forth. The question now has to be asked why that law does not come true in the children’s world as it does in the adult world. The underlying reason is that these factors are minors in this case and below the level of criminal liability and are not of such a degree of development as to be able to understand the importance of their actions. That is why the question arises as to what benefit would that additional criminalisation now actually be in order to solve this problem. Would it make adults take this phenomenon more seriously, as adults should? It is the case that, when society actually obliges you to go to school and that is right, then society also has a duty to ensure that it is safe to go to school and that you can go to that school in peace without being bullied or, in particular, abused. So the key question here is what adults do. Adults have a duty to raise those children and at school to address these cases of violence and bullying. If any laws are laid down, perhaps it would be better to leave the point of income that adults should be obliged and justified to deal with bullying more effectively, and certainly not to punish those children who cannot even be punished under the law. You should be able to get your attitude right with this bullying problem. Bullying should not be ignored; it should be addressed. Especially in such serious cases, where there is talk of actual abuse, there must be means and resources to intervene at an early stage. And it cannot be that data protection prevents multi-professional cooperation. Such obstacles need to be dismantled, and those obstacles need to be broken down specifically by adults. Giving teachers and principals more means, more powers to intervene in bullying cases, is a priority. Share group sizes so that there is a better chance of focusing on individual pupils. There are not too many students in the same group, causing anxiety and anxiety, and perhaps getting worse in some situation, even to bully. There are many ways in which this problem of bullying can actually be controlled. I would encourage Parliament together to consider what can be done about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u255	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u256	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! This citizens' initiative to register school violence in the law is very much to be welcomed. We have had a number of citizens' initiatives before Parliament today, some of which wonder why we need to bring them to Parliament through the citizens' initiative, otherwise we could not take them forward, for example the previous one, where the registration of cats and this issue were on the table. It should be expected that such matters could be dealt with in this country without a citizens' initiative. Well, this recording of school violence in the law isn't a whole new thing. Mr Koponen raised my own bill. So I am a teacher from my civilian profession and, of course, I have had to work more on this issue in due course, and of course the concern about the ability of children to cope in schools and to be bullied in schools is always in mind. I have also said here before that we must remember that the bully is not always a child, it may also be a teacher, or it may be that the bullies are children and the target of bullying is a teacher. So this is a very big question. Now, in this initiative, we are talking about violence at school. I'm fine with that. Here in the past, perhaps a little criticism of this citizens' initiative was made that, if this problem could be resolved in one way, it would have already been done. I do not believe that this problem can be resolved in one way, but I myself made a similar bill in Parliament in 2012. At the time, Krista Vierimaa, in her thesis thesis, had been studying school bullying and had concluded that it should be recorded separately in the law. His Master's thesis is almost ten years old, and this matter is still outstanding, although I myself have renewed my own legislative initiative during each parliamentary term and have in fact received broad support for it every time in these speeches. One of the essential things about this pro-grad of Krista Vierimaa, which dealt with school bullying, school violence, was that 73% of school bullies would not have been bullied if school bullying had been recorded in the law. In other words, in a certain way, the awareness that I am committing a crime would have been more concrete, according to this study, for these children and young people. There have been good speeches in this regard, which include the fact that yes, bullying at school, violence at school, is, in a way, already in the law as crimes, separate crimes. There is abuse, abuse, tampering with another’s property, breaking the peace of communication, and many more, but this Master of Vireimaa’s thesis has a good way of concretizing the fact that when they were assembled — or now, with this citizens’ initiative, they would be brought together — for school violence into the law, it would make it concrete for these children and young people. One good point would be, for example, that Chapter 21, which could well be added to the new Article 7a, bullying at school or violence at school, and then this whole. This issue has been raised in Parliament. Among other things, former MP Tiina Elovaara made a number of good legal initiatives on this subject. In 2016, he made a claim to be registered in the law that the bully could be the one who would have to change schools and not always the one who would have to avoid bullying and seek a new peaceful school for himself. This did not progress, although the bill received broad support from Parliament and broad attention from society as well. Tiina Elovaara, a former MP, also took the initiative in 2018 to register the obligation to report in the law, to intervene. Didn't make any progress either. And let me underline again, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to asking whether this is the way that this is not the only way, but this is the last way when everything else has been done at school, or if everything has not been done at school, then, for example, a child, a young person, his parents would have the opportunity to start a process that would be relevant to this. Mr Koponen, who has also done good work on bullying at school, also raised this problem in a good way. Mr President! Yesterday I was able to meet people from a new start-up company who have developed software that could also work to detect these issues and problems: on the phone a simple app with which the whole school could tell about what happened at school once a week, what the school was going through, and then the alarm bells would ring if there were such indications as harassment, school violence, bullying or other. I personally hope that this kind of abscess will be put in place and lowered the threshold for children and young people to dare to share the first negative experiences. There have been numerous proposals on this issue, including the registration of violence at school, bullying at school, and now there are more than 50,000 Finnish citizens behind this with the citizens' initiative. I appeal to the Marin Government: take this matter seriously, implement this citizens' initiative. Thank you for doing this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u257	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u258	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here about bullying and specifically bullying at school. After all, there is a citizens' initiative here that advocates the inclusion of this form of school violence in criminal law. I'm not so sure I'm gonna take a stand on that. It is now going to the appropriate reading here in Parliament, and excellent speeches have been made here. That is where Mr Heinonen recalled how many times there have already been various corrections to this issue, and that is one of them and a very serious matter. I myself believe that bullying is often too mild a concept for this matter, for this terrible event. So if you think about this, it is a very serious matter. We have also spoken many times in committee about the fact that bullying at school jeopardises the student's right to a safe learning environment and bullying is an important factor in the development of young people and a serious threat to health, well-being and school motivation. Experiences of being bullied often affect adults to a great extent. For example, an interview survey conducted in the Youth Research Network revealed that young people outside education and work have often experienced bullying during their school days. “More often, the multidisciplinary backgrounds of bullying, discrimination and racism are becoming Children in need of special support in the school environment are also in a vulnerable position.” ‘It is difficult to deal with the problems of bullying, ill-treatment and Bullying among school-age children also occurs, for example, in social media.” And it's not always a school-age kid who picks on someone else in the social media, but can really have adults. — — — — These are the points I took from this report by our committee on tackling problems leading to the exclusion of children and young people in primary schools, and this was also a citizens' initiative. Let me just conclude by saying that this is an excellent initiative. We are again discussing this issue. This subject must not be forgotten and something really needs to be done about it. We must try to influence those root causes and at an early stage, and we must speak with the right names. In Mr Aselli's speech, this Ankkuri activity, which also involves the police, was also mentioned. If we are to understand that there is also a need for the assistance of the authorities and, in particular, the safety authorities, then it is also worth talking about violence, with the right name. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u259	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, Mr Mikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u260	Mr President! I will continue with a few thoughts on this important citizens' initiative, which has also given rise to a good debate today. There are many types of bullying in schools, which do not always fill the hallmark of crime. This too must be tackled without delay, it must also be eradicated and prevented. Violence at school must be held accountable. I am delighted that last spring an action plan against bullying was announced. It brings new ways to school. We must invest in the community of schools and in positive groups: let us not remain silent in the face of problems. Let's care about all the kids and the kids. Let's keep everyone on board. Support families in an important educational task. Strengthen co-operation between home and school. It was nice to hear more about this South Karelia model today, which should also be used more widely. They gave up the use of the word bullying and began using criminal names, such as illegal threats, abuse, defamation. It's worth talking about things with the right names. The results of Karelia are encouraging. The school's cooperation with the police paid off. The gravity of things got out of hand. When the consequences of the actions were carried out, there were very few repeaters. We need school cops, school-police cooperation. Of course, everyone over 15 years of age is already responsible in criminal law for what they do. School violence can be condemned as early as primary school age. However, the Criminal Code does not help the majority of school bullying cases, as the vast majority of primary school-age bullies are under 15 years of age. Violence is already a crime. Although school violence can be dealt with within the framework of existing laws, I hope that the genuine concerns of young people in the citizens' initiative will be heard. Mr President! It's all because we respect each other. This must be taught to children from a young age: to learn manners, empathy, working in a group. We adults set a good example in our actions. We recently had an operational night in Reisjärvi against bullying and violence. The local store declared itself a free zone of bullying. Together, we will build a safe school for all children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u261	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u262	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is very timely and extremely important. When a young child goes to school, he actually forms the first larger contact with the surrounding society. Of course, he's had clubs, various meetings with children, hobbies and so on, but the school world is the world that a little child has such a big, big change in life. And if that first big event in the way of life becomes a place of terror for this little man, the person’s life will be struck with a negative stamp that is even overwhelming for many. That is why this citizens' initiative is extremely important, and I hope that the Committee on Education and Rural Development will actually deal with it, as is certainly the case, and will come to a good conclusion, because this is an extremely serious issue. In fact, everything leaves the homes: when children are raised, children should understand the respect for the integrity of another person and the ability to behave. Learning to apologize and respecting another’s immunity should be fundamental to raising the whole person. It's the responsibility of the home. It's the responsibility of the mother and father. It's also the responsibility of the grandparents. The big problem in our society is that the family, the shelter around that little child, has broken down, is often very distant from the grandparents — and the greater the safety circle in which man lives, what is around him, the better. When a person is taught to behave well from a young age, he will certainly spread that good atmosphere around him as a bigger one and teach his own children when the time comes to respect the integrity of another person, to behave well. I remember from my school days that, of course, even in those times, when I began school in Ilomantsi Hattuvaara, I remember there were these bullying cases quite clearly, but the teachers intervened in them with a firm hand but also with love, not commanding or committing atrocities, not threatening, but actually being grounded sometimes and there was a feedback, and then the teachers had a conversation with the parents, if necessary. It was normal. And they taught them manners, they had to say "good morning," they said "to see" and they said "thank you" and "be good" and "be good". So they taught us manners since we were little. When such a school bullying event comes, unfortunately what we have read in the papers, it must be dealt with in real terms and immediately. Of course, teachers are in the first place in that school environment, but parents are also. There is a need for cooperation both at home and at school, and, as Mr Kinnunen has just pointed out in his good speech, in the most difficult cases, police help is needed, because people, children, must be instilled in respect of the immunity of another person, and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u263	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u264	Honorable Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank the honourable Members for having made good, worthy speeches, many speeches, and I too would like to make the floor, thanking the citizens' initiative for an important citizens' initiative. Well, why is this initiative important? Because the current model has clearly failed in a certain way. We have been able to read the news of shocking events, which can then be the worst case of violence at school. Now is the time to talk about phenomena in their true names, and those forms of bullying that fill the adult world with the characteristics of violent crime must be identified as school violence. The initiative clearly states that recording violence in schools in criminal law does not eliminate the need for preventive measures. It is important that schools strengthen community and address the root causes of bullying. It is also important to strengthen low threshold support and help for those who have experienced bullying. President! Of this form of citizens' initiative: This initiative is a proposal to start drafting legislation, not a legislative proposal itself, and I think this is a good one. This will certainly be the way, when this goes to committee work, to find solutions to these problems, which this citizens' initiative has raised. I would like to raise one point here: I do not think that there is a clear record in the law of what any authority must do in the event of bullying, to whom they must inform and who will ultimately bear the responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u265	Thank you. — Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u266	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the people who have taken up the citizens' initiative from my heart. This is a very important issue. I would also like to thank my honourable colleagues. We have heard excellent speeches today, and I can say that you have a warm heart in this House across party boundaries. This is important. Bullying, bullying at school — I personally believe that there is no such thing, it is always mental violence. And we adults should get involved. It is great that we are discussing this again here, but I would like us to stop talking and act. I've seen the soul of a little princess break when it's bullied. It leaves a big scar. You can live with it, but it's hard. We do not have much to do with how we intervene. We've been talking about this for decades. There are Nice School folders, and efforts have been made to provide teachers with a variety of good ways to solve this. My view is that there is only one solution to this and we have heard it in this Chamber. We have police representatives here who have brought clear proposals for solutions, and I can see for myself that the best solution is that we find responsibility. Today, who is responsible for the school’s everyday life and what is happening there is unfortunately a blur. Until the day comes for someone to be responsible for the safety of our children, nothing will happen about this matter. I am certainly not guilty of principals or teachers — they do everything they can — but someone has to take responsibility. We cannot continue in such a way that every time there is a case of bullying or violence, all our officials are there wondering what is being done again. We simply have to find the point where this will end. And the only way that's gonna end is if we find responsibility. The role of the authority in Finland is not easy because the legislation is so complex that the flow of information in these matters is already difficult. Together, we must now find those solutions so that we can finally end the debate here on school violence and that in Finland it will end. Surely every Member of Parliament in this House shares the hope that no child will ever experience mental violence or physical violence on his or her way to school. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u267	Thank you. — And Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u268	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Peltokanka, for your excellent speech. A citizens' initiative on school violence recorded in the Criminal Code: Of course, you have to remind yourself that even now you can report a crime if someone at school gives you a bit of a beating, or barking or insulting — it can be called defamation even today. If school violence had been enshrined in the law, those working with children and young people would have a clear and unambiguous obligation to intervene in school bullying and then take this matter forward. I am sure that this is one of the essential points which I am sure the citizens' initiative makers will like to point out here. But I would like to remind you, Mr President, as has been pointed out in other speeches, that all forms of bullying and violence are unequivocally unacceptable and always calls for intervention. The key question is how to distinguish between bullying at school and direct violence. Schools should have clear policies on how responsibilities are shared and how cooperation between authorities should be managed. President! I would also like to thank the citizens' initiatives. This referral debate has been a good one, and I believe and know that this will be taken into account in Parliament's committee work, and I thank you again for this good debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u269	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 26/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Let us go to the general discussion. Chairman of the committee, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am indeed presenting the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial The Government proposal proposes to amend the Emissions Trading Act and this proposal would implement the amended Commission Implementing Regulation on greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting, which extended the sustainability criteria regulation for emissions trading to cover solid and gaseous fuels produced from biomass in accordance with the recast Renewable Energy Directive. The proposed amendment would also implement national reforms to the Emissions Trading Act. The proposal proposes to extend the number of decisions to be taken by the Energy Agency despite appeals and to clarify the possibility of recovering free allowances allocated on incorrect grounds. This law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022. The starting point for legislative changes has been the amendment of the so-called monitoring regulation on emissions trading and the RED II Directive on renewable energy. The Emissions Trading Act would be brought into line with the regulation on the sustainability criteria required by the Monitoring Regulation and, at the same time, the provisions on recovery and limitation would be implemented in line with national needs for change, i.e., as I have already said. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers this regulation to be justified. This is quite a technical change and we are in favour of adopting it with a technical change. In other words, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the need for a technical amendment to Article 56b of the draft law which has been raised in connection with the examination of the proposal by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and proposes that it be corrected as set out in the report. The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is that Parliament, as amended, adopt the bill contained in the Government proposal HE 128/2021. And this report is unanimous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u271	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 25/2021 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, Chairman of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the committee has produced a report on Sitra's annual report for 2020. Sitra can be described as a future house based on its vision, strategy and themes. The year 2020 under assessment was also exceptional from the point of view of foresight and unpredictability, as we have all seen. Even before the corona, Sitra opened up the year 2020 with its megatrend report, which identified as megatrends the urgency of ecological reconstruction, the ageing of the population, network power, the fusion of technology into everything and the fact that the economic system is looking in its direction. At this stage it was not yet anticipated that there would be a pandemic or its spill-over effects on these megatrends. Sitra updated its assessment of megatrends in the light of corona. On the other hand, megatrends are about events more far-reaching than a pandemic in terms of time. The year 2020 was also the first year for Sitra when a new governance model was in place in accordance with the Sitra Act, which was revised in 2019 and entered into force on 1 January 2020. The reform clarified Sitra's legal position and highlighted Sitra's independence as an independent public-law fund for the Parliament. Sitra also received its own Board of Directors and is organisationally independent of the Government and separate from the central government budget. Sitra’s operations were financed entirely by investment returns, and financially, 2020 can be described as successful in the light of investment returns. The significantly higher level of expenditure was due to a tranche covering the first part, EUR 33.3 million, of a total one-off contribution of EUR 100 million to the capitalisation of universities. The Committee on Economic Affairs emphasises Sitra's position as an independent future house. However, Sitra does not directly compare with research institutes and universities, but its work places particular emphasis on the importance of experiments and pilots. They also represent a higher expenditure item, 44% of project costs. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that this effort is right and believes that Sitra should not be defined as a competitor of universities and research institutes. Sitra’s vision is that Finland will succeed by building a fair, sustainable, inspiring future in which people can succeed well within the limits of the earth’s carrying capacity. This also links Sitra’s operations to Finland’s competitiveness and administrative reform needs. Sitra’s activities well reflect the time-consuming discussions and societal pressures. These major issues, in particular the transition to a carbon-free economy and the loss of nature, have an important link to the economy and social decision-making, and Sitra has a key role to play in this debate and in finding solutions. The themes of responsibility and fairness are also linked to Sitra's second central theme, the data economy. The rules of the data economy and the strengthening of the European data ecosystem are a key theme, the results of which must also be linked to regulatory solutions and EU impact at EU level. The Committee on Economic Affairs considers the selection of Sitra's themes to be successful and justified. On the other hand, despite its importance, Sitra’s vision and choice of themes can also be criticised for a certain expression. The themes are already the subject of extensive research and experimentation, and the role of the House of the Future can be thought to include searching for and exploring the next major changes. It is certainly appropriate for Sitra to reflect in its own direction and that the information available in this work will also be used to the maximum extent also in the university and research institute field. Megatrends, social transformations and structural reforms, such as issues relating to working life and urbanisation, inevitably have a political dimension, but this should not prevent courageous openings to debate. The most difficult question is to identify those projects with high social returns. In the interests of transparency, as highlighted by Sitra, it could be justified in the future to highlight in a more transparent way what criteria Sitra's themes, priorities and projects are based on and how the decision-making process ensures that projects are also assessed from the point of view of their social returns. The Committee on Economic Affairs also attaches importance to the ongoing evaluation of the effectiveness of Sitra's work. From this point of view, an update of the assessment approach and the way in which the evaluation will be carried out will take place in autumn 2021. In the light of Sitra’s vision, it would be justified for its projects to be linked to social reforms, to make use of results and to make use of them in concrete, administrative, legislative and business reforms. Part of this objective has already been achieved. The pandemic also brought concrete problems to Sitra’s agenda that could be resolved quickly. Sitra started to look for tools for sustainable recovery, to consider the long-term impact of the pandemic on megatrends and to contribute to the development of tools to facilitate the tracing of the corona. Although such projects may partly steer Sitra out of the strategy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs feels it is good that Sitra, as a fast-moving actor, has the ability to respond to the requirements and needs of a rapidly changing operating environment. Similarly, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it particularly useful, based on the lessons learned from the corona virus pandemic, that Sitra's foresight work should include a more open and comprehensive account of so-called black swans and wild cards, sudden changes in the future and risks widely understood. The committee’s proposal for a decision is for Parliament to adopt a declaration on the basis of the report K 5/2020 and the committee’s position is as follows: ‘The Commission does not have any comments on the management of the report. “ — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u273	Thank you. — and Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u274	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, for the comprehensive presentation of the report. The independence fund Sitra was founded in 1967. Now, as a middle age, it has shown its value to us Finns many times for decades. It has successfully invested, helped develop important inventions such as xylitol, supported DNA development and reflected on megatrends, future developments. Sitra has developed from a financier to a genuine and open future house. It is and works for the whole of Finland. Sitra’s position as an independent future house is valuable. It is capable of experimenting, piloting various projects and thinking boldly. There are many examples of good projects: the IHAN Enterprise Programme, which ended recently, helped companies to create new business through data. The aim of the democratic experiment was to promote participation, participation and dialogue through various innovative experiments. Mr President! By focusing on the future and projects that might otherwise be too risky, Sitra serves universities and companies and implements its idea more thoroughly. The more quality this is done, the greater the benefits for society. Sitra's contribution to the capitalisation of universities is an important contribution to our country's research, education and innovation activities. Sitra must constantly monitor its own position and the subjects of its studies. It must not be allowed to become a competitor of universities. Then it would make itself unnecessary. In its report, the Economic Committee considers that Sitra's key research areas, such as the carbon-free economy and the data economy, are justified. On the other hand, the committee also takes note of the fact that they are currently being studied and tried on a large scale. Sitra must be able to focus its attention, as the committee says, on the search for and investigation of the next major transformations. It must be one step ahead of us in a agile and flexible way. The Annual Report describes Sitra’s activities well, which at the same time is a picture of our time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u275	Like this. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, a moment ago I presented the committee's unanimous report. Just a few ideas about Sitra. First of all, I think it is very important that we have someone like Sitra. It is courageous and important, and I think it has a clear role to play as a future house, in other words as a different type of actor here on the surface of research and decision-making, compared to universities or research institutes, for example. I think that its profile is clear compared to these, and I do not always fully sign the debate around it in this respect either. We are increasingly in need of knowledge-based decision-making and decision-making, and in this Sitra has a big role to play in bringing research data processed through practical experiments closer to solutions and decision-making here at the parliamentary level. Sitra’s themes are the data economy and the loss of nature, and I think that it will certainly be a good achievement in Sitra’s role as a step ahead. At the moment, when we solve at all possible levels how Finland can become a carbon-neutral society and how climate change is stopped, Sitra draws our attention to the fact that, alongside it, biodiversity is an important problem, and solutions must also be found so that we can prevent and combat the loss of nature and save the earth for future generations and our beloved nature for our children. Similarly, the data economy is an abstract theme and not much emerges in the parliamentary debate, but the issue is very crucial in our technologically-enhanced society, and I see that Finland also needs to promote these regulatory solutions at EU level and Sitra can act as an important initiative in it. Looking for these major transformations is a key task for Sitra. Megatrends are often referred to, and I hope that cooperation between Parliament and Sitra will be maintained and developed closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u277	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — First speech to the first signatory, Mr Grahn-Laasonen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u278	Mr President! My bill proposes to extend library lending fees to e-books and e-sounds. Borrowing compensation is a copyright fee paid for library lending of works. It enables library users to use the data free of charge and compensate authors for the creative work they have done. Borrowing compensation is a significant source of income for many creators. The quotation fee applies, for example, to authors, translators, photographers, music authors and illustrators. Currently, no quote fee is paid for e-books or e-sounds. The objective of the bill is to move to a model in Finland where the author receives a loan from the library, regardless of the format of the work. The popularity of audio and e-books has increased exponentially. There have been major changes in people's reading habits. The interest period has accelerated this change even further. It is important for libraries to be able to respond more and more to the growing interest and for authors to receive fair compensation for their creative work regardless of the publication format. During the last parliamentary term, the lending compensation paid in Finland was raised to the Nordic level, which was a significant and commendable reform of the cultural sector and the Finnish literature. Library materials are undergoing major changes when e-books and e-sound books raise their popularity. Borrowing volumes of e-books and e-sound books have grown rapidly over the past ten years. Libraries transfer material acquisition to digital content as much as they can. Currently, e-books and e-sound books are completely outside the lending compensation system in Finland, and that is what this bill draws attention to. A similar remuneration for e-loans is already paid, at least in the Netherlands, Denmark and the UK. Finns love libraries. We are at the forefront of library lending and reading in the world. For this to be the case in the future, these changes in reading habits must be easily answered. A high-quality, modern library is an important part of cultural work. During the last parliamentary term, the revised Library Act introduced art and culture to local residents and promotes democracy and equality. It was a reform which I believe will open up many more possibilities, for example, in the promotion of democracy — it became a new task for libraries. The next objective is to create a national e-library for Finland, which would enable e-books to be accessible on an equal basis throughout the country. It is neither reasonable nor possible for every library in every municipality of Finland to try to meet this big challenge alone. However, the unresolved issue of quote compensation threatens to slow down the implementation of e-library dreams. Libraries alone cannot decide on the payment of lending fees, but require a change in the law. The Copyright Act should be extended so that authors are also compensated for quoting e-books and e-sound books, and only in this way will the development of this national e-library be on a sustainable basis. It is important that we ensure, by law, compensation for authors in all formats. Mr President! I would like to thank the honourable Members for their positive attitude and good cooperation. This initiative has been signed by 39 MPs. There are signatories from both government and opposition parties, from eight different parties. This is sending a strong message. Members of parliament who are familiar with education policy across party boundaries hope that creative workers, regardless of the form of publication, will receive fair compensation for their work. Now is the time to take the change through Parliament, and I also appeal to the government of the country to support this pro-civilization bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u279	Yes, thank you. — Representative Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u280	Mr President! The initiative therefore proposes to amend the copyright law to include e-books and e-sound books. I would like to thank Mr Grahn-Laaso for a very good bill — I have also signed it myself. The quotation fee currently applies to traditional books, so this is a very welcome initiative and I hope it will go through. Little history: A couple of parliamentary term periods ago I was also part of a parliamentary working group that took it upon itself to move forward with lending payments so that they would be at the same level as elsewhere in the Nordic countries. In Finland, this matter was very much behind us and there was very little compensation. So it turned out that 2017 was finally achieved at the Nordic level and the quote payments are at the Nordic level, which is a really fine and fair thing. The same is now required for these records, and I would like to thank Mrs Grahn-Laso once again for this good initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u281	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u282	Mr President! Reading paper books will decrease, but listening will increase, as will spending e-books. Borrowing e-books and e-sound books in Finland is increasing at a huge rate. During the years 2015 to 2020, the quotation of e-resources in public libraries increased by almost 500 per cent. This is a great thing. Education through reading and listening is valuable. It is worth doing everything to promote reading, both boys and girls. For example, e-books and e-sound books can help. However, developments have not gone along with the creative work that has been done to compensate authors. Currently, authors do not receive compensation for quoted e-books and e-voices. Everything has come as a surprise to us all. For example, there is no record of this in the Government Programme. It would be fair for authors to receive quotes from their works regardless of the format. This is already the case in several countries. It is essential for authors' livelihoods and future production. It would be good to find a solution as soon as possible. That is why I wanted to sign this important initiative by Mr Grahn-Laasonen — thank you for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u283	Yes, thank you. — and Mr Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u284	Mr President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen has taken a very necessary initiative, and he has already well explained the reasons for this need for change. This is something we have been talking about for a long time and it is high time that we put it right. Authors must be compensated for the use of their works in libraries, regardless of the form of publication. In a short time, I could not find my own name on the initiative. I would have liked to have signed it, and I would like to give my spiritual support in such a word to this initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u285	Like this. — and Mr Sjöblom.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u286	Mr President! The Library Institute is a pillar of Finnish civilization, which we can be very proud of. As a result, everyone in Finland has equal opportunities to enjoy high-quality literature and culture and to use services and extensive information resources regardless of their personal assets. It is great that libraries have expanded their services and also offer electronic books and electronic audiobooks for reading and listening. At the same time, however, it is important to ensure that the relevant legislation is up-to-date and that authors and translators receive appropriate remuneration for the provision of their works to the public. At present, however, electronic books and audiobooks are outside the lending compensation system and this is unfair to copyright holders. Everyone deserves a reward for their work, and there must be no obstacle to the format in which the work has been done. The loan compensation has been successfully extended to electronic books already in several European countries, and Finland must become part of this group. I would like to thank Mrs Grahn-Laaso for this bill and for bringing it here to the House. By reforming the lending compensation system, we support Finnish culture and its administrators.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u287	Like this. — and Mrs Kausto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u288	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, for the very iron bill, and also for the presentation that I find it unnecessary to go on with these arguments. We all understand this need and importance. I myself am thinking about the future and the development that we are going to, and in a certain way about how different we are. The way to books and the world of reading is a little different for each of us, and we must respect it and give it opportunities. This increase in the popularity of e-books and e-sound books and their inclusion in this quote is, in my opinion, only a forward-looking and smart action, and as a very happy member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I hope that we will soon be able to deal with the bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u289	And Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u290	Mr President! This initiative proposes to amend the Copyright Act to extend the quote fee to e-books and e-sound books. According to the law in force, the lending fee applies only to books quoted as traditional physical copies. It is justified that the authors are entitled to remuneration under law for the use of their works in libraries, irrespective of the form in which they are published. This is what Mr Grahn-Laasonen's legislative initiative states about the main content of the initiative. It is right and fair that authors actually receive compensation for the use of their works in libraries, regardless of the form of publication. This is the present day that we have precisely these e-books and e-sound books. I am very pleased that such a bill was taken, and I think it is quite right that it has not been corrected, but it is still not too late. And it is great that the members of the Committee on Culture have been signing this, because we will definitely support this in the Committee on Culture. But before that, it requires that such a change be made to the copyright law, and I now appeal to Mr Kurvis to take this seriously. It is also the momentum that we have copyright law at the moment with statements. It relates to this directive of ours, which is why the copyright law had to be amended now and which is precisely about going into this e-world and going into the virtual world and e-sources, and we need those copyrights now to be modified into a whole new world. Finland has now made an implementation of this directive, but as we have been able to read and see various contributions, this draft copyright law has already received a crushing criticism after having been consulted for a short time, which means that this law must certainly be corrected before it is brought into Parliament. I absolutely believe that the draft law needs to be corrected before it is brought here, because it already seems that it can be estimated that it is not what Finland needs. It will then become a bridge to this Grahn-Laasonen bill: By correcting the draft copyright law that has received the crushing criticism, the implementation of the directive could be accompanied by the content of this law initiative to amend the copyright law, i.e. the extension of these quote payments to e-books and audiobooks. That's where they'd do it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u291	Thank you. — That is indeed the chairman of the Committee on Culture, and the debate is... Oh, we're still having this conversation. — First signatory of the initiative, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u292	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express my thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, for your support for this important initiative in such warm words. Here is also the strong support of the industry in the background: the authors and their representative organisations and various actors have very much appealed to the pro-civilist parliamentarians in this Parliament that we should deal with this issue and that we should send it through strongly. The chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights raised the good idea that this could also be promoted by the government in the context of changes to copyright law. So there are in fact two options: this is a bill that should be taken forward here, but of course the best thing would be for the government to understand the importance of this issue and want to be involved in this work. It is a pity that Mr Kurvinen is not here today, but I hope that the word goes on that this change is very much awaited. It is actually perverse that we have a situation in which legislation is not up to date in this respect, and e-books and e-sound books and their content are in a less favourable position, and that means that it is also reflected in the direction of authors and creators. More and more people want to change their everyday reading habits in this digital age, and there should be an opportunity for more and more people to enter the world of these literary content and e-books, regardless of format. So I hope that this message will also reach the Minister, and I thank you for the fact that so many people across the government-opposition line have been involved in this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u293	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Let's go to the conversation. First signatory of the initiative, representative Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u294	Mr President! In Finland, according to the statistics of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, falls and slips caused an average of 622,000 treatment days a year between 2015 and 2017. Of these, the average number of treatment days due to winter solubility was 29,000 per year. The average cost of falls and slips was around EUR 358 million between 2015 and 2017. In other words, falls cost Finnish health care about EUR 1 million every day. The cost of hospitalisation for slippages in winter is about EUR 24 million per year, and now the new fad is e.g. electric kick boards, which cause crash accidents in our country to grow. Falls also cause a lot of deaths each year, and much of these deaths could be prevented by the practice of correct roll-over technology. If this bill, which is now under discussion, is adopted here in Parliament, it will benefit every Finn — both financially and as a healthier quality of life. Even if the benefits do not appear immediately, it can be said that in 10 years' time results will be seen, that in 20 to 30 years' time there will already be huge, continuous savings in health care costs and far fewer people with fallen disabilities. Mr President! As regards the prevention of falls, the studies on falls highlight, for example, tests of the older population's sense of balance and walking style and their strengthening through balance and strength training. These are important measures to prevent falls. However, my legislative initiative now under discussion focuses on the fact that the fall has already begun. In my day, I myself have been an instructor and principal teacher in martial arts, so I can say with good conscience that I know what I am talking about. In martial arts, orthodox fall is also practiced, and it is a central part of different martial arts. When my bill is implemented, it will enable every Finnish citizen to practice the correct fall in the future. Right-of-the-art crash technology minimises the injuries caused by the crash. The management of correct roll-over technology reduces a significant proportion of the injuries caused by falls, in particular head injuries, wrist and elbow injuries, ankle and knee injuries. The whole human body is protected by the right kind of fall. In the last millennium, I noticed, for example, that it was already a mere convection that caused difficulties for young men and women. You can only imagine how convex young people of today’s computer age could do without getting hurt. Mr President! Over the decades, Finland has seen various campaigns focusing on the prevention of falls. Fells can be prevented, for example, by versatile exercise to strengthen muscle fitness and coordination and by many other means. However, not all falls and slips can be prevented. For a person to fall right, it requires regular training. The best way to learn right fall technology is to increase its systematic training. This objective can be easily achieved by adding training to the curricula of comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools. At that time, children and young people gain confidence in unexpected falls and slips and perhaps even sparks into a physical way of life. As children and young people regularly practice right falls throughout compulsory education, in the long term, falls are reduced in all age groups and health care costs are significantly reduced. And when the orthodox fall remains in the memory of the muscle, it will benefit a person in the event of a fall even in old age. Mr President! Safety is a very important part of the physical activity of children and young people. The training and learning of correct roll-over technology will benefit children and young people and later adults in all mobility. The practice of right fall also gives children and young people confidence in their own movement. I hope to support my bill across party boundaries, because orthodox falls improve people's quality of life, reduce sickness pensions caused by falls and, above all, bring savings to the costs of health care in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u295	Like this. — and Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u296	Mr President! Thus, representative Mäkynen's bill proposes correct roll-over technology as a study package for comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools. There should be exercise and muscle training in everyone's calendar, day and week program, ever since they were little. The person today doesn't really want to get enough of that exercise. Schoolchildren often have school transports. A lot of telework is already being done in the workplace today, or you drive a car to work. There is far too little exercise. We need those muscles at all ages, even when we're old. Falls cause suffering and also financial loss. When a knee, ankle, hip, or arm breaks or hits its head, it is a very difficult place, not to mention the suffering and also the personal financial loss. So that man would practice that fall right there in the school world, so that it goes there in muscle memory, would be a great thing, that is, if this went through and thus taught this fall. So this bill by Mr Mäkynen is special but excellent and worthy — I have signed it. Congressman Mäkynen is an expert in combat-sports. He knows what he's talking about. And once again, thank you for this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u297	Like this. — Mr Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u298	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank Mr Mäky for this good bill. This bill proposes to amend the Basic Education Act and the High School Act in such a way that orthodox roll-over technology becomes a study entity in comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools. During the decade, Finland has seen various campaigns focusing on prevention of falls. Fells can be prevented, for example, by versatile exercise to strengthen muscle fitness and coordination and by many other means. However, not all falls and slips can be prevented. In order for a person to fall properly, this requires regular training. The best way to learn correct crash technique is to systematically increase its training. This objective can best be achieved by adding training to curricula for comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools. This gives children and young people confidence in the most unexpected falls or slips and perhaps even sparks into a physical way of life, just as Mr Mäkynen mentioned. As children and young people regularly practice right falls throughout compulsory education, in the long term, falls are reduced in all age groups and health care costs are significantly reduced. When the correct fall remains in the memory of the muscle, it will also benefit the person in the event of a fall in old age. Safety is a very important part of children's and young people's hobbies. The training and learning of correct roll-over technology will benefit children and young people and later adults in all mobility. Right fall training also gives children and young people confidence in their own movement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u299	Thank you. — and Mrs Kausto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u300	Mr President! I speak with a deep chest voice of experience. As a professional athlete, I have fallen thousands of times in my previous career, and it is quite true that when you fall often enough, you learn little to fall. I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u303	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u304	Mr President! We are discussing a very important issue here. Congressman Mäkynen makes an excellent initiative. Of course, at this point in time I am not going to comment on whether it should be put in the basic education law and in these other laws, which he proposes, but it is, in itself, unbelievably good. When you think that I myself specialize in my work as a nurse and as a specialist nurse in geriatric nursing and the services of elderly people, you must say that very much happens when an elderly person falls and falls and breaks his hip or neck or some other bone damage or something else, then often a person who does well at home gets into a hospital cycle, and often it is a very serious situation and even so that he dies in these further complications. In this regard, to practice a fall, I really do not take a stand as to whether it should be added to the basis of the curriculum. You see, there is quite a lot of pressure there for everything else they should contain. I personally believe that there should be safety skills overall. One of the safety skills is that one learns to fall, but I think that that is the way to go through safety skills and preparedness. On the other hand, this excellent proposal by Mr Mäkynen also goes to the so-called safety skills and preparedness skills. All in all, I think this is a very good thing. I mean, it's not like this isn't gonna take a lot of practice. Of course, this could also be added to the list of sports instructors, at least now this is being studied. The National Board of Education may also issue such instructions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u305	Thank you. — and Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u306	Mr President! There have already been very good speeches on this subject, and I should also like to thank Mr Mäky himself for submitting this initiative. As we all know — and Mrs Kausto brought it up — the immobility costs Finland a great deal. It is these preventive opportunities that I want to focus on in politics rather than on problems. It seems that Mr Asell is still coming to the floor, and if anyone knows how to fall right.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u307	Before Mr Asell still representatives of Kinnunen and Mäkynen. — Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u308	Mr President! Mr Mäkynen raises an important concrete point. It's a good idea to practice the fall. It is a necessary safety-related skill, as Mr Risikko has said here. Could it be part of comprehensive school and physical education? Its importance could be brought to physical education programmes and awareness through teacher education. Exercise plays an important role throughout the school path. Of course, the fall could be practiced right from the time of early childhood education, when, in principle, one still knows how to fall. The model of Finnish hobby also comes to mind, each school student having a free hobby in connection with school day. There are many sports clubs where the practice could be this fall raised by representative Mäkynen. Unmovement, but also falling, costs money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u309	Congressman Mäkynen, first signatory of the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u310	Thank you, Mr President. In my recent presentation, it was not really my original idea on this issue. In my view, this does not go so far as to constitute weekly training. I see that there are about two or three 2 hours of training during the autumn term, two three 2 hours of training during the spring period. And as this goes on, this is the rhythm and this person, the child, who understands how to fall and how to accept the land in a way. The first thing is that when you fall, anyone falls, you stick your chin in your chest. It's a simple thing. It already protects the head very much. This was my point, which I wanted to tell you is that it is certainly not going to be a weekly exercise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u311	That's it. All right. All right. All right. — — — — Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u312	Mr President! Mrs Kausto said in her own speech that she was in her own sport, basketball, many times fallen, thousands of times. Of course, some experience in wrestling has been gained. But about that, I can't tell you if this bill is such a... I think this is a good idea and there is a good background here, but would this go in the curriculum? Perhaps I would rather call for it in a larger picture, when in the old days there was more gymnastics and such a variety of coordination activities in school education, that perhaps that direction should be taken. Of course, I have also received ideas that martial arts should be included in the curriculum, but there will certainly be so many different things in there anyway that perhaps in a larger picture I would look at this kind of initiative. In itself, this is an important issue. And, in fact, as far as the diversity of sports is concerned, I would also like to call more for children's exercise and sport, even if there are more things that are specific to team sports and sports and coordination. When it comes to drop out and young people stop the species that they have been very committed to for five years and may get tired of, then when there is a rich background at that point, you can switch to another species, that is, that side. But I have noticed that no matter how well you have fallen in the past, here, olderly, the ability to react is getting weaker and probably the bone is getting a little fragile. Well, here's where we go with the fake joint, but there's still a challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u313	Finally, the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u314	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to tell Mr Asell that it is certainly not the intention that schools should begin to practice martial arts, but simply fall, and that is what we are going to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u315	And the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u316	Mr President! Let's be brief. This is the most excellent initiative to present here, namely, we all know that this week is Skeleton Week and yesterday has been the world's day of osteoporosis. And when people get osteoporosis for various reasons, falls are much more serious, and that is why this is an excellent thing. Wherever this is decided, it can also be done by mutual agreement that sports instructors take note of this advice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u317	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Kaunoto, presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u318	Mr President! This initiative proposes to amend Article 69 of the Income Tax Act. In addition to physical participation, cultural activities mean remote participation in cultural activities. This will make it possible for employees' stimulating vouchers to also be used for remote cultural activities. I took this initiative last spring and it is, of course, strongly tied to the plight and corona of culture. First of all, I am pleased to say that this initiative has signatories from six different parties. It's great to see that culture connects strongly in this house. After all, this initiative does not in itself increase government spending, i.e. the burden of taxpayers, but gives people better access to the stimulus vouchers from employers, thereby supporting entrepreneurship in the cultural sector. I believe that every small step in which cultural activity, which is strangling in the midst of the corona and is still in a precarious situation, is of the utmost importance. That is why I am a little disappointed that the bill is only after so many months in this Chamber. But, Mr President, I am very pleased — I am glad that the government has decided to take action. On the basis of this bill, the government promoted the matter, and a model such as my proposal was put into effect already in the summer. However, I am not quite sure whether the information has been strong enough because it seems that the operators are still affected by uncertainty. But in any case, let this be another example of the strength of cooperation, especially in these times, when there is a difference of opinion on the basis of a different ideology, even though there is agreement. So thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u319	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please go away. — Mr Sjöblom, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u320	Mr President! Events and cultural businesses and workers are among the main sufferers of the corona pandemic. The opportunities for self-employment have long been almost non-existent, and unfortunately the future is still a little unstable. The means of enabling these sectors to operate must be constantly sought and put into practice immediately. I would like to thank Mrs Kaunto for an excellent legislative initiative, and I am pleased that the law has already been implemented. The incentive vouchers provided by the employer play an important role in supporting domestic cultural events and events. With the adoption of this law, it is now possible to use the stimulus notes for remote cultural events. This will also enable the cultural sector to plan new innovative events. Since the corona has not yet been won and we cannot be absolutely sure of the future, this law is particularly important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u321	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u322	Mr President! This is an excellent initiative, and it is historic that before it is presented in this Chamber, it has already come into force. But in that sense, this has been done, as Mrs Kausto said, at the time when this corona situation was at its worst, and cultural operators and actors in the field of events have really been in trouble. We have spent a great deal of time in the Committee on Education and Rural Development wanting to hear their situation and pass on information. I am very grateful that those emergency calls have been heard, including outside the committee, and these additional forms of support have been received. After all, culture plays an enormous role in human well-being, and information has been studied about it. And if there is no other use in this corona, then the fact that it raised the problems of the cultural sector, in fact, the problems under the surface there, and the significance of its culture. People said that in order to be well human, people need culture and events, and they also need another person. This interest rate has now highlighted, among other things, the problems of unemployment and social security, where there is a difficult situation in the creative sectors. Although we have been trying over the years to help with the problems of unemployment and social security in the creative sectors, there has been no such fundamental correction. Now that we are doing this social security reform, that is to say social security reform, it is an attempt to take these too, but I am just afraid that it will come too late. Those in the cultural and creative sectors need their social security and unemployment security reforms earlier because, for example, it is unusual that your copyright fees do not increase your unemployment benefit, but then, if you become unemployed, they will reduce that compensation. So these are very strange combinations. I would just like to say that this bill by Mrs Kauto has already been implemented in a certain way and has been an important act for cultural operators, but above all for those who can enjoy culture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u323	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u324	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Mrs. Kaunto. I've missed this bill. I would definitely have signed it — a very good thing. The event and culture sector, as Mr Risikko says, has suffered a terrible amount now from this corona period. It's a good thing they're getting back a little now. The government has found that the cultural sector needs more support. Many of the organisers have been tumbling, and it is said that this matter is still not over and bankruptcy is very close to many. I am now happy to raise the subject of artists, especially these so-called 'line artists'. There are greater difficulties for them, namely that they have not received much support from anything and that their gigs have been very small for years. More have been these famous artists on display, and of course they too have suffered so much, but that starting point is already a little different. These remote gigs are good too, but such an artist, who is not so famous, doesn't get those listeners remotely there, so even at that point, it's more of an upkeep of his own profession. Thank you again, Mrs Kaunto, for this bill. We all need culture. People who deny it do not notice that it will not be a week, may not even be a day when they undetectedly use culture in some way. You can't say you don't need it. It's like breathing the air. We also need culture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u325	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-21-ps-122.u326	Mr President! Thank you to my fellow Members for these fine words, and indeed to the government for the speed with which this has been speeded up. In this debate, we have raised the importance of culture to people. Admittedly, it cannot be overemphasized. In its own way, as Mr Risikko said, the corona worked hard to show the importance of culture to us people. But what I would also like to see raised in a certain way by this bill is a lack of respect for cultural operators in their own way, which I may have noticed. We are easily forgotten that cultural operators are entrepreneurs, they employ themselves and, in general, when they employ themselves, they also employ other people. This initiative is precisely about allowing them to do their job. And it must be given a great deal of value. In any case, I would like to thank you now for the progress that has been made and for the sympathy that colleagues have shown in this Chamber. - Thank you.
