ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-79.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 9/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Mr Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-79.u2	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to bring together national and European Union regional and structural policies as an effective whole. The aim is to reform the objectives, planning and working methods of regional development to reflect changes in the operating environment, as well as the European Union and national objectives. The aim is also to support and promote effective interaction and contractuality in the development of regions and to clarify regulation and reduce the administrative burden on beneficiaries and public authorities. The Administrative Committee considers this proposal necessary and appropriate. The proposal proposes a law on the development of regions and the implementation of European Union regional and structural policy and a law on the financing of regional development and European Union regional and structural policy projects. In addition, the proposal proposes technical changes to certain other laws. The proposed implementing law and the financial law will complement and clarify the EU regulation for the period 2021-27. The law applies to the projects of the European Union Regional and Structural Funds during the programming period. The committee considers it appropriate that national legislation on regional and structural policy should be brought together as proposed. This will clarify the whole of regional development and enhance coordination between national and EU regional and structural policies. It is proposed that the planning system for the development of the regions and its operators, as well as the tasks and powers of the public authorities, should remain largely unchanged, but the system should be streamlined and the procedures reformed. The central instrument remains the Government decision on regional development and the regional programme to be drawn up in the province. The plan for the implementation of the regional programmes will be abandoned, which will help to streamline the procedures of the authorities. The Implementation Act proposes to provide for a new approach, regional development discussions to strengthen the interaction between regions and the state. The implementation of the conclusions will be monitored in the context of subsequent regional development discussions. According to the Act on Implementation, the decision on regional development is decided by the Government term. According to the reasons for the proposal, each government may review the priorities during its own term of government on the basis, for example, of a review of the Government’s strategy. In order to make the decision concrete for implementation, ministries draw up an updated implementation plan. The Committee notes that the operating environment is changing rapidly and without any prejudice and that it is therefore necessary to update the plans. The Committee considers it important that the Advisory Board for the Reform of the Regions should promote and monitor the implementation of the decision and, if necessary, may propose a revision of it. It is proposed that the definition of sudden restructuring areas should be abandoned. The operating model for the management of sudden structural change has been revised in October 2020. The proactive and reactive approach to sudden structural changes in the regions is an established approach. The Administrative Committee stresses that the regions and the state must continue to have resources and support mechanisms to respond to regional and national regional development needs in the event of rapid change. At the same time, we must lay the foundations for the long-term development of regions to cope with the crisis and to build a new start. In practical development activities, it is also necessary to take into account development tools other than those currently covered by the proposed legislation. The Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses that both companies and third sector actors need clear guidance and advice, in addition to administrative issues, for example on the identification of an appropriate financial instrument and on cross-border projects. Mr President! The decentralised administration has been estimated to increase the costs of administration for regional councils, which the Committee on Economic Affairs has also drawn attention to. On the other hand, in the coming programming period, the wider use of simplified cost models and advanced digital services will contribute to reducing administrative costs. The committee notes that cooperation will enable cost-benefits and efficiency to be achieved. On the other hand, a strong accumulation of tasks can lead to the loss of regional orientation and local knowledge. In the case of ely centres, where tasks are centralised, the importance of regional councils is increasingly important as an expert on local conditions in their own region. The Committee on Administrative Affairs believes that it is important to strike a balance between greater efficiency and regional orientation, which can be found in different ways in different regions. However, administrative simplification and streamlining can significantly reduce administrative costs. Mr President! The report of the Administrative Committee contains a statement that the level of technical support for regional councils and other intermediate institutions should be guaranteed and that the implementation of the new programming period 2021-27 of EU regional and structural policy should not increase the current financial burden on municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-79.u3	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-79.u4	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for an excellent presentation. Indeed, we went through this proposal carefully in the Administrative Committee. Personally, I think there are so many good things in this presentation. The draft law constitutes a clear whole and the more precise regulations complement it. It can be said that, for the first time in the history of regional development, the whole entity and the system are described in the same entity. The role of regional associations as an independent regional development authority is also clearly expressed and the role of the regional programme as a central plan for regional development is well defined. The relationship between the authorities' powers has also been well described. So there's a lot of good and new things going on in the show. However, as Mr Purra has just said, our committee was concerned about technical support. The current situation is that this technical assistance will be distributed to the intermediate authorities on the basis of a needs assessment. In practice, this means that insufficient technical support for the Ely Centres will be compensated through the state budget, but if the regional federations run out of technical support money, then the municipalities will have to go to their pockets. And even the government program says that municipalities are not given any more tasks. I therefore consider the additions made by the Administrative Committee at its meeting to this report to be excellent and also this proposal for a statement, which I would like to read again: ‘The Commission requires that the level of technical support for the regional andotherinstitutions is ensured,and that the implementation of the new programming period for regional and structural policy2021 to 2027 does not increase the current budgetary burden of the municipalities. “ The importance and importance of this will be very great for the provinces — not least for the sake of increasing the financial burden on the municipalities. I therefore hope that this statement will also be followed up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-79.u5	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 10/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. General discussion. Presentation, Mr Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-79.u6	Mr President! This proposal is intended to implement the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on open data and the re-use of public sector information in so far as they are not yet met by the existing national legislation. Regulation would target data held by public sector bodies, research data produced from public funds and published in the repository, and information on enterprises controlled by public authorities in certain sectors where the company permits or is obliged to allow the use of the data. The amendments proposed to the Act on Public Administration Information Management and the Act on Public Service Transparency would concern valuable data material and information that is updated frequently or in real time. The law on the re-use of information by undertakings providing certain services of general interest would generally lay down the obligations on presentations, terms of use and access to information applicable when data held by undertakings controlled by public authorities are reused for economic or other purposes. The re-use of publicly-produced research material would be subject to presentations, terms of use and access obligations. The proposed provisions are based on mandatory regulation of the Directive. Mr President! The Administrative Committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals with a number of observations and additions to the first legislative proposal. Member States shall bring into force the national legislation necessary to comply with the Open Data Directive no later than 17 July this year, which makes this processing urgent. The committee notes that the regulation of valuable data sets will still have to be assessed in relation to the Commission's implementing acts on the list of valuable data sets and on the organisation of the publication and re-use of valuable data sets. These implementing acts have not yet been adopted by the Commission and therefore no precise information is available on the date of their adoption. As a result of this lack, it has not been possible to carry out precise assessments of the economic impact of regulation during the preparation process. The Committee draws attention to the fact that the directive provides for a transitional period for the free movement of valuable data by exempting public sector bodies which have to generate revenue in order to cover a significant part of the cost of carrying out their public tasks and whose budget would be significantly affected by the free movement of such data. Member States may exempt those bodies from the obligation for a maximum period of two years from the entry into force of the implementing act. However, it has not been possible to identify qualified operators in the preparation without a list of valuable data sets, and therefore the proposal for a transitional period is not included in the proposal. However, the committee believes that a transitional period of national flexibility should be used and the necessary provisions prepared at the latest, at the latest, when the regulation is otherwise re-assessed in the light of the implementing acts adopted by the Commission. The proposed changes will also have potential impacts on municipalities’ activities, either by producing and maintaining valuable data or by keeping up-to-date information, or by controlling companies with documents to which the proposed law will apply. The committee points out that the different capacities and competences of municipalities create conditions in which the same legislation can be easily implemented or a major challenge for different municipalities. Costs and other impacts will also be affected by what is responsible for opening up the data files to be subsequently appointed in accordance with the requirements of the Directive. The Administrative Committee considers that the impact of municipalities should be re-evaluated together with the municipal sector. Mr President! The committee would also like to draw attention to the security aspect. While information covered by the obligation of confidentiality is excluded from open information, it is important, for example in critical infrastructure sectors, to ensure that open interfaces do not allow data to be combined, such as location data, which could jeopardise national security. The Committee stresses that the impact of regulation must also be monitored and assessed as part of a wider package. In order to take security considerations into account, cooperation between the various safety authorities is increasingly important as a result of the wider opening up of information. Mr President! The proposal implements nationally the obligations imposed by the Directive on documents held by public undertakings relating to the provision of a service of general interest in certain sectors, such as energy supply and public passenger transport. An undertaking controlled by a public entity which allows the use of a document relating to the provision of a service of general interest in its possession for commercial or non-commercial purposes, or which must allow the use of the document in its possession, for example because of legislation or international agreements, shall comply with the proposed provisions on the conditions of use of the document and the manner in which the document is issued and the fees for the provision of information. The proposed law does not in itself oblige undertakings to allow the use of the document for commercial or other purposes. According to a report received by the committee, it is essential from the point of view of the proposed regulation that the re-use of the document is permitted. This issue should not be assessed solely with regard to the objectives or justifications of a given set of legislation. Moreover, it is not possible at national level to limit the scope of the provisions of the Directive to allow re-use only in certain circumstances. A publicly controlled undertaking should therefore assess, on a case-by-case basis, whether it permits access to documents in its activities. Mr President! The proposal does not contain any changes to the rules on the confidentiality of documents and therefore does not affect, for example, the protection of business secrets. The proposed regulation does not apply to documents whose access is restricted, inter alia, to the protection of business secrets, state security or personal data or for similar reasons. This report by the Administrative Committee is also unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-79.u7	Thank you for your comprehensive presentation.
