ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 February 2021. With the support of Kaisa Juuso Jukka Mäkynen, she has made an objection to the proposal. In addition, Paula Risikko Mia is in the debate. A proposal for a statement supported by the law, which has been distributed to the representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 February 2021. With the support of Kaisa Juuso Jukka Mäkynen, she has made an objection to the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u5	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on the basis of VAVM 1/2021 vp. on the basis of the report. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 February 2021. In the debate, Lulu Rande, supported by Vähämäki, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 1. With the support of Päivi Räsänen, Timo Heinonen has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u6	The first vote will be on the Lulu Rantane proposal against Mr Heinonen's proposal, and the final vote will be against the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u7	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u8	Mr President! The Annual Report 2019 of the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor is an important document and deserves attention. The Office of the Data Protection Supervisor shall be an independent and independent authority that supervises compliance with data protection legislation and the laws on the processing of personal data. The Office will also promote awareness of rights related to the processing of personal data... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u11	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u12	Madam President! ‘Everyone has the right to privacy and personal This is stated in the initial pages of this activity report. However, this right is not complete. One of the unfortunate examples of this is the numerous data breaches that Mr Kivisaari has already raised in his own speech. In the reporting year, security breaches formed the largest single group of cases initiated by the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor. In that year, 3839 security breaches were reported to the Office, and this report shows that certain common features of security breaches can be identified. For example, it is difficult for controllers to verify what personal data have been made available to third parties. The report also shows that the rapid detection of security breaches by the controller needs to be developed. Furthermore, in particular for small organisations, there may be shortcomings in general IT capabilities. These are all very serious issues that need to be addressed immediately, and they need to be rectified quickly. It's about people's lives. I would like to see a wider debate in Parliament itself around this important issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u13	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u14	Madam President! The report by the Data Protection Ombudsman is interesting to read every year, and this role has, of course, been particularly highlighted in recent years and has also become more prominent in the parliamentary debate. Information security and data protection are important words today, and their role is further emphasised, as a functioning digital society requires investment in information security. There is a lot of information on the web today about what each one of them collects. I hope that each of us will consider each time what we allow and how these registers and others will be maintained. As has been pointed out in this debate, last year has also been a serious reminder that these also involve major risks. This data security leak in the counterroom was unique in its severity. Whether it's the only one is the second question. That is why we need to strengthen security, we need to strengthen responsibilities, but we also need to strengthen supervision in these situations, that savings of this kind can no longer happen, that only profits or profits are collected and that one absolutely essential part of this type of activity is left to the waste. I personally hope that, above all, even legislative measures will now be taken here, that the responsibilities are clear and can also be monitored. Of course, Mr President, we may have gone a little further in these various restrictions on the collection of data. One such example was, for example, the removal of the names of school sports competitions, i.e. when skiing competitions were held at school, so today no results could be placed on the school wall, the way it had gone, but it was the skier A and the skier B and the skier C that went in that race. Well, then, maybe you could have some sense and patience here again. Mr President! There is also cybersecurity in this big picture, and it is still a place for your own debate and an extremely serious and important place to ensure that these too, data security and data protection, are fully realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u15	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u16	Mr President! Data protection issues are more relevant than ever before. Everyone has the right to adequate data protection. A breach of security may at worst result in loss of control of personal data, identity theft or fraud, damage to reputation or disclosure of pseudonymised or confidential personal data. Everyone remembers this as a recent and serious example of a data breach at the Psychotherapy Centre, where up to 33,000 clients at the Response Centre were stolen and released on the Tor network. Whoever did this tried to use the information to blackmail money from the counterstation and private clients. Such cases are very serious and reprehensible, and just as Mr Pelkonen said earlier, this is indeed a topic which should be discussed more in this House than in society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u17	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u18	Mr President! Indeed, the report of the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor is here in terms of concepts. That's what they bring us once a year. It's been quite a year since you've been thinking about it. Well, the year 19 was its own thing, of course, but then in 2020 this is exactly what has already been referred to: The data protection event at the counter office, where the patient data was leaked to the public. An extreme, extremely shocking event, especially for those who are here victims, whose data has been leaked — and especially if they are still being used against them in some way. After all, when I have been involved in many tasks myself, that data protection is a terribly important issue, it is a human right and one must be able to rely on the information that is subject to data protection to remain confidential. Then I will mention here the question of helping people: we have authorities, and quite often I myself have come across a situation that has been affected by many problems. There have been health care issues, there have been social services, there may have been police issues and so on. How many times has it been that when the information has not been sufficiently passed from one helper to another, this target person, who has already suffered from problems in the past, has not been able to provide sufficient and timely assistance? I have said it many times — and I refer to the predecessor of this current Data Protection Supervisor, who always said that to me — that no law should prevent us from helping. And now that we have a new Data Protection Supervisor — thanks to the previous Data Protection Supervisor for the good cooperation he has had with Parliament and the ministries — I would like him to look into these specific cases, where that data protection may have led to the fact that the information has not been passed in time from one expert to another. We speak with great enthusiasm in this Chamber too about multiprofessional cooperation, but then, if data protection is received there, it simply will not succeed. And here I always want to remember Mr Aarnio's message that no law should prevent us from helping. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u19	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u20	Mr President! It is very good to agree with Mr Risiko's last Kanet: it is extremely important that, despite the fact that we have data protection to value, it must never prevent people from getting the necessary help and being helped and their overall situation being seen. Unfortunately, we have sad examples even in recent times of the way information has not crossed sectoral boundaries and has since caused enormous tragedies. President! We are living in a time when data protection issues are perhaps more important than ever before. The world has become enormously fast, and at the same time abuses have increased. It would be important, especially among children and young people, to emphasise what their rights are and what their responsibilities are towards each other in this respect. And that is why, when a broader debate on data protection was called for, I very much welcome it, and this report by the Data Protection Supervisor is a good basis for this possible debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u21	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u22	Madam President! Good speeches have been made in this debate and reference has been made to this break-in at the Response Centre, which did not take place during the reporting year, but which is a very topical issue at the moment. It is hard to even think that someone is committing such a cowardly crime or crime as is involved in that matter. As a result, tens of thousands of people have suffered, at least they have become deeply concerned. Thousands of requests for investigation have been made to the police. In due course, these thousands of inquiries will go to the prosecutor for prosecution, then they will go to the courts. So I am talking here about the matter of these parties, the victims of crime and crimes, and their claims for compensation. They are handled by the court of law in the district court, the court of appeal, and perhaps they are still applying for an appeal to the Supreme Court. This means more work and congestion, both for the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary, that there is a threat that it will significantly impede the work of these important authorities in other areas. The result of all of this is probably that these plaintiffs will not actually receive any compensation. As we have read in recent days, for example, the defendants are bankrupt, and I do not think that anything can be achieved from those who may be found guilty of crimes in this connection. So I would like to suggest to the government that it is a very heretic and quite exceptional idea that these victims of this cowardly crime should be replaced by some sort of moderate lump sum from state funds and avoid these thousands of requests for investigations, thousands of prosecutions, thousands of judicial processes. Of course, it would not be compulsory to agree to the amount of wood, and those victims of crime who want to go into this judicial process could, of course, go to it. In the light of the overall analysis, I believe that such a completely exceptional solution to this completely exceptional issue could be justified. Finally, Madam President, I would like to share the ideas that have been expressed here that too strict an understanding of data protection can also make it difficult for the authorities to pass on useful information.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u23	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u24	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz made a very good speech, and I would also like to thank... [The PresidentAnuVehvillainen : Sorry, with the representative of the microphone at the moment went away. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u27	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u28	Madam President! I shall continue briefly when the time has run out for that speech on the spot. — I have come to the conclusion that good speeches have been made here about the fact that too strict data protection or too strict an understanding of data protection in practice can work in such a way that social welfare authorities or school authorities, for example, do not consider that they can provide other authorities with information that would be necessary in their own activities to help people. I personally do not understand this too strict data protection. So it is, of course, what we have here in Parliament, but if we have a civil authority in Kela, for example, I find it a little incomprehensible that he cannot provide a confidential authority on the social side of the municipality with information about an individual client that would be necessary for this other authority to help a person. We older MPs remember the unfortunate situation in which the municipalities wanted to help veterans who lived in the municipality and often lived alone. Kela was wanted to know about veterans in municipalities, and this information was available to Kela because Kela paid benefits in this respect. Kela could not provide this information. This led to a separate law in this Parliament, which, I recall, was introduced by Mr Risiko, who spoke then as Minister, which then gave Kela the right to provide information on such veterans with information to the silent authority of the municipalities so that these veterans could be helped. I mean, a completely absurd, strict law before this separate law that we made. On top of that, there have recently been unfortunate situations in public: the Ombudsman made a remark to the police authorities, who had told the City of Helsinki on request, that a plot, or whether the property was, the buyers were professional criminals. You shouldn't have done this, and the police were charged with it. A few days ago, fortunately, the District Court released the police from this charge. Thus, the privacy of these professional criminals included the fact that the City of Helsinki was not allowed to be informed of their criminal activities and background when they were buying land or space from the city. Which means there's too much of these excesses. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u29	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-19-ps-12.u30	Madam President! I would like to make a quick point about this need raised by Mr Risikko, namely the need to teach children from an early age, both in homes and in schools, responsibilities and responsibilities and rights. But I would like to extend this need to all of us, including adults. Surely each one has much to learn about responsibilities and duties and rights in this area.
