ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — The debate, Minister Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! It is great to see so many representatives on the ground again and go back to the normal order of business. In accordance with the Government Programme, we combine maternity and paternity laws into one parent law. The application of two separate laws has been perceived to be difficult in practice, and the whole of them has been difficult to grasp. This is going to change. Local authorities are currently investigating the paternity or maternity of some 20,000 children per year, so clarity of legislation is very important in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u3	Madam President! According to the plan, this government proposal for a parent law will combine paternity and maternity laws. I understand that an attempt has been made to improve the rights of the child, but I do not think that this is a complete success. For example, making it difficult to correct recognised ills and the change in the assumption of a marriage as a paternity undermines the fundamental rights of a child and a man. In this respect, the proposal may not meet the requirements of equality either. I believe that this bill of law is good, but it is not enough to do just that. The effects of the legislative acts presented are not fully conducive to the truth and are therefore not beneficial. There has been a public case in which a man has been deceived into being the father of a child. The father of the child is a convicted person who, based on DNA tests, is not a father. The case unquestionably shows how the time limits for the correction of paternity can be misused and a situation that is detrimental to the child and others involved. None of these situations should arise at all, especially when they could easily be prevented by a different way of wording. The addition of a new time limit to the paternity of the marriage is binding on the discretion of the courts and prevents the assessment of the best interests of the child in cases where the paternity of the child has been found to be based on false or false information. It is not in anyone’s interest that because of an artificial time limit, false fatherhood, false parenthood, should not be corrected. Fortunately, there are no countless numbers of different types of paternity scams, but there are still some. None of those things should be at all possible today. The development of medicine makes it possible to determine paternity with almost 100% certainty if paternity is to be determined. Especially when the wrong person becomes a convicted father of a child for one reason or another, it should be possible to reverse this when it can be ruled out that he is not actually the father of the child. Every child deserves to be cared for and loving parents, not on the basis of a lie, but the truth is in the interests of all. The amendment in the draft law, at least of particular concern, is that the recognition of paternity before the birth of a child can no longer be withdrawn. You have to wonder what it's based on. Any studies to demonstrate the paternity of a child should be subjective to the wishes of one party and it should be possible to dismantle the paternity if it appears that it is not based on the actual situation, without time limits. This would also be in the best interests of the child, as I said before. Mr President! I hope that Parliament will take the above into account when dealing with this bill and amend it so that the actual parents of the child can be defined regardless of time limits and other closing provisions. I also hope that Parliament will take a position so that all cases of false fatherhood that are already in force can be dismantled if the party so wishes if it can be demonstrated that the person seeking the removal is not the father of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u4	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u5	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Kopra, for a very good withdrawal in connection with this proposal, and I really hope that when the committee deals with this, this issue will be taken into account in particular and the report will then be clarified and clarified in some way. President! The Government proposal proposes to introduce a parenting law and to amend the law on fertility care, and some other laws will be revised to reflect the new Parenthood Act and the concept of parenthood and its content. The paternity law and the maternity law would be repealed with this proposal, which is essential here. So the government proposal combines paternity law and maternity law. The aim of the Act is to bring two separate laws within the scope of common and equal regulation. It is also stipulated that children may have two mothers or two fathers. The Christian concept of marriage, the human concept, the world view is based on the fact that a child should have a parent in principle, and on the assumption that it is the best place for a child to grow and develop whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u8	Was there any willingness to go to the debatt? — Reply, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u9	Thank you, Mr President. A few lifts: As chairman of the committee, I can promise you that we will go through this very well, but unfortunately this has been made into a budget law, and this could have been brought in earlier, so that the committee would have been able to do very much of this. We now have a tight schedule with other laws, that is to say, unfortunate in that sense. I would have asked the Minister: How have you taken into account the resource situation of the Digi and Population Office, the former Local Register Office? This also increases their workload, and we have all heard that the agency is completely congested. The genealogy stands, the guardian’s appointments stand; all the issues involved have become enormously congested there. The challenge is that substance law comes from the OM and the VM gives the resources. So what kind of cooperation do you have, Mr Paatero, apparently, in order to get this thing right? This is a huge legal security problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u10	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u11	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation, but here, Minister, there are some points that require further clarification, and I hope that the committee will deal with them seriously and carefully. In time, this case of Jämsänen was one of the wonders, and that regulation was brought about by his, Father, hard work and energy. Of course, it didn't help him with his own child, but it does help other fathers. Well now there has been a public case of Markon, whose name has been changed: A man pays child support payments to another child — everyone knows that this child is not his but another man, and our system must not break this unreasonable payment of child support payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u12	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u13	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for this proposal, which has come here, but we must now tell the President that, through ageing, people seem to become more conservative. In this case, it is a question of cultural conservatives and titles. I would like to raise two headings here: The other is this unimaginable Digi and Population Agency. Why on earth, when we have a classic name, the Local Register Office, do we not use the Local Register Office as we should?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u18	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u19	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Kopra and Mr Heino for their excellent contributions. As a representative of the government, this is, of course, a way of supporting the government's proposals. Like the Copra, I believe that the purpose of this law has been a good one, but there are some gaps which I believe need to be dealt with in committee. Mr Kopra has taken an excellent legislative initiative to remedy this issue and I very much hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will put it on the agenda. This public case of Marko is so shocking for this individual person that I believe that we must defend that small person in this Chamber. Although this is not a major problem, it is a huge one for him personally, and we must be able to correct such a murder.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u21	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u22	Mr President! The Parenthood Act follows on from the Government's reform of family leave and the national child strategy aimed at strengthening the rights of the child and greater recognition of the diversity of families. Thank you for that. The Parenthood Act improves the equality of families when families are treated in a gender-neutral way in legislation. In addition, the law facilitates the recognition of paternity or maternity by giving up, for example, the withdrawal period for prior recognition and enabling the digital delivery of documents relating to the recognition of the child. Signing parenthood in the Population Information System simply as a parent does not mean losing the categories of fatherhood and motherhood in everyday life. The law does not interfere with how people experience parenthood in their everyday lives. It is in the interests of both the child and the family that the recognition of the child goes without bureaucratic shuttleping. This also strengthens the child’s right to maintain and develop his/her personal relationships with his/her parents. And, as has been mentioned here before, the bill in the proceedings
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u23	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u24	Mr President! A lot of improvements were made to the Parenthood Act, but unfortunately they were mostly of a technical nature, and this law has been a big disappointment to many organisations, such as those representing many families. There are very many families living in Finland, and this diversity of family forms and the rights of different minority groups are not reflected in this proposal. It would also be important for legislation to recognise and identify the diverse forms of family life that exist in Finland at the moment and to guarantee equal legal rights for all children. This law is specifically about the best interests of the child. I would have asked the Minister how we are going to find out in the future that the diversity of families and the status of the child will be achieved on an equal footing. If you could open it a little more. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u25	Representative Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u26	Värderade Talman! I enlighet med regeringsprogrammet slås nu moderscapslagen och faderscapslagen samman till en föräldrascapslag. Aven om det inte så länge sedan reviderades har det framkommit stora behov att se över vis bestammelser. Stort tag till regeringen och Minister Henriksson för det.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u27	Madam President! Fatherhood and motherhood are the greatest joys and responsibilities of life to us. In that sense, it may be said that I believe that this discussion of the Parenthood Act here in Parliament would have called for this to be done as a non-budgetary law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u30	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u31	Mr President! I myself would like to draw attention to this case by Mr Marko, on which a few speeches have already been made. In his open letter, he writes specifically to the MPs: ‘Impossible to understand how and on what grounds would be childlike,that he has a non-biological paternal-responsible driver-adult,in particular if the right biological father is aware of it.’ Now that this has been specifically raised to the centre of this child's interest, so what justifies this situation, that here still is left this kind of time, so that at the earliest possible stage paternity can be established, when nevertheless the child himself will then have the right to bring an action and settle this matter at the age of 15. These are, of course, contradictory, and I would like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u32	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u33	Mr President! I would also have asked the Minister about this Marko case. I want to understand, Minister, what the background to this decision is that this issue of DNA should be limited in this way. Why can't you do that when you find out on the basis of DNA, who is the father, change these decisions? Why is it now limited to that temporary period of up to six months? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u34	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u35	Mr President! This proposal brings some clarity to the legislation relating to parenthood. Many of the needed improvements are also being made, for example in connection with fertility treatments and the strengthening of parenthood. However, we should have the courage to make more ambitious legislation. Organizations have expressed their disappointment: Multifaceted families and Rainbow families have shown that the presentation leaves unresolved the specific situations of parents of sexual and gender minorities, as well as all family situations where the child has actual parents whose parenthood cannot be legally identified. It is worth noting that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child does not make one form of family or just two parents the only option, but that parenthood can also be defined on social grounds. It would be the duty of the law to protect the child’s relationship with all his real parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u36	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u37	Madam President! It is good that these headings ‘mother’ and ‘father’ are preserved in this Act, but it must be noted that,in this respect,however,it has been sought to be gender I think that the attempt to make motherhood and fatherhood gender neutral is indeed alien to reality — biology, nature. This is shown, among other things, by the fact that, under this law, it is possible that the person who gave birth to a child is a man of his or her legal sex, or that the confirmation of paternity does not require that the father be a man of his or her sex. So these contradictions here appear when there is such, you can say, an anti-natural attempt to make motherhood and fatherhood gender-neutral. But let me ask you this: would it be possible for these erroneous paternity decisions which have so
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u38	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u42	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u43	Mr President! Combining maternity and paternity laws is indeed an important and welcome change for families to safeguard the child’s legal right to his or her parents. However, as representatives of Kivelä and Honkasalo, among others, have said, unfortunately, the reform is still half-way in the case of rainbow families. In the debate on the budget, the Minister of Justice said that a study would be launched at the Ministry of Justice — if I understood correctly, it would be necessary to identify and identify these shortcomings in relation to the status and rights of rainbow families. I would have asked: what timetable is this report to be made? And with regard to these questions about terms, I personally think that the language used in the law and regulations, including the language used in this Chamber, creates reality. It also has a tangible impact on the lives of children and their parents. The question is whether or not the existence and situation of all kinds of families will be taken into account and respected. It's not out of my motherhood, it's out of every human being,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u44	I will give two more replies, to the representatives of Tanus and Said Ahmed, and then to the Minister. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u45	Madam President! It is a real shame that the parenting law comes as a budget law and is in a hurry to deal with it, but we really hope for wisdom and care in that committee. It is a real reality that each of us, every child has one mother and has one father. It's just a biological fact, even if they try to argue otherwise. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for keeping the mother and father titles, maternity and paternity titles in this proposal, because they are something very special. [Disturbing—Department :What about foster children? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u46	Representative Said Ahmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u47	Mr President! The proposal for a parent law clarifies the regulation of parenthood. The law has also reduced the unnecessary sexualisation of parents by using neutral wordings where possible. Words matter, even though some people downplay them. It is also a step forward that improvements were made to the rights of female couples regarding the freedom of choice of the other parent. However, it would be important to make more effective improvements to the committee's final report on the situation of rainbow families. There are many families living in Finland, and the diversity and rights of family forms must also be guaranteed in family life. Legislation should support different forms of family and children's rights, regardless of the gender identity, sexual orientation of parents, or
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u48	Minister, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u49	Mr President! Thank you for your good questions and comments. I'll try to answer them at a quick pace. How does this proposal take account of the so-called wrong fathers and their correction if the possibility of withdrawing recognition is waived within 30 days of the birth of the child? This proposal proposes to give up the possibility of withdrawal and denial because so far it has been used extremely little, less than 20 cases per year, in relation to the number of children whose parenthood is delayed due to the withdrawal period. There are over 16,000 of them every year. In the case of families where there is suspicion of parenting immediately after the birth of the child, the possibility for parents to determine the parenthood of the child is extended for a further six months after the birth of the child and the confirmation of parenthood. So this is for giving up this 30-day period. How, then, has the proposal taken into account these Marko or Risto cases, in which false paternity occurs only after the deadline of two years of legal action for annulment? This proposal now proposes a change to this particular problem. In other words, the proposal proposes a specific one-year period within which the suspicion of parenthood, even after a legal deadline, can be examined before a court on the initiative of one parent. It is in the best interests of the child to deal with the suspicion of his or her origin as soon as possible, and this is the reason why this is the one-year deadline. If the time-limits were to be completely waived — as Mr Kopra has said, among others — the applicant would not have the incentive to proceed and the child would remain in uncertainty for a long time. It should be noted that if the child’s interest is in favour of the annulment of parenthood, the child may be assigned a guardian and the action may be treated as the child’s own action without any time-limit regulation. So this is the solution here. How, then, has the presentation taken into account the best interests of the child? The best interests of the child have been at the heart of this preparation throughout the project. It is in the best interests of the child that two parents can be confirmed as soon as possible after his or her birth and that the child’s relationship with his or her parent remains as complete as possible for as long as possible. The possibility for a child to be heard in his or her own case is now underscored in a different way in this proposal than in the old law. Then we've been asked why we've come to this. This proposal has been the subject of opinions, as all the proposals in general are, and there have been more than 50 opinions, and the feedback was mainly positive. It was precisely these issues that were discussed that were very much in support of the fact that this is how we are going to proceed. That is why we have come to these solutions. Well, how much is this? Here, in accordance with the cost estimate drawn up by the Digi and Population Information Office, which I too believe is such a name that the Local Register Office would be easier in all respects, but this was not decided on in this law, it is now exactly what they have presented. It says we've gone. That is why this is also a budget law. Then, of course, it is in the interests of all of us to try to correct the runaway defects that have been in this older legislation. On the other hand, we are now making a technical change: we are bringing together maternity and paternity law into a single law. There is a record of that in the Government Programme and there is no other record, and that is why we will also report on diverse families, and Mrs Hyrkko, I hope that this report can be carried out next year. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u50	We shall now proceed to the list of — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u51	Madam President! As I said here, paternity and motherhood are one of the greatest joys and responsibilities of life, and it would certainly be reasonable for this parenting law in Parliament, which will then combine these paternity and maternity laws, to have a proper, longer-term treatment — especially since a number of points have already been raised in this debate to which representatives have drawn attention and where legal clarification is certainly still needed. Here, the Minister really received thanks for the fact that these concepts of father and mother are still here in legislation, and also for the fact that there can only be two legal parents. But just as Mr Räsänen said earlier, it is true, as is stated here in the explanatory statement of the law, that, apart from the definitions of motherhood and fatherhood and certain other essential provisions, there has been an attempt to replace the terms on motherhood and paternity with a gender-neutral parent term. This has been done in situations where it has been possible without abandoning the regulatory requirement for precision and only to the extent that the same regulation extends to the regulation of both paternity and maternity. Here the question arises a little — when it is known that the government also has that transfiguration on its desk — that has this, as it were, made possible by these terminology preparations to take account of these laws in due course. In that sense, I would also draw attention to the same point as Mr Tanus here, that there are special situations in this legislation, that the legal man who gave birth to us is then a mother, and in the sense that we are talking about motherhood and fatherhood in this Chamber, it would always be important to specify that we are talking about biological motherhood and fatherhood. Then this legislation takes a stand on legal motherhood and fatherhood. And then parenthood: there is social parenting and a variety of parenting, in which I am sure, for example, the number of parents or the number of breeders may be something other than what the law legally takes on, so I think it is necessary to understand this difference in terminology at this point, and perhaps that is why, in this Chamber, there seems to be such issues between representatives when we talk a little about different things and different terms. But the fact of the matter on the biology side is that each of us has one biological father and one biological mother. There was also a number of contributions which drew attention — and the Minister has already given an answer — to what this time limit for the resolution of paternity and the related changes will mean in the future. It is hoped that this Minister’s attention to this Chamber itself would help to help these disproportionate situations which have been raised here — as an example of this so-called ‘caseMarko’ — but nevertheless I would pay attention to the fact that,on this day of the day,medical andresearch have developed,that this DNA testing can be done and can be done regardless of time limits,that the possibility of establishing a human biological origin would be limited by different time limits,but if a person,the child’snamely,wanted to have his or her own background is also possible. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, in this last period, this law on fertility care was adopted, this legislation now comes back to the situation that there is also the possibility of legally establishing the man who gave up sperm as a parent, and this is explicitly considered in the best interests of the child, that is, the right of the child to know his or her own origin has been raised to the top of the law at this point. And I think that this is certainly where the legislator has become so-called wise on the way, that is to say, this point shows that the right of the child to know its own biological origin must be given priority over this other legislation. Mr President! That is why the Minister replied to why it is considered that this EUR 1 million is a sufficient amount. If this were the Agency's own assessment, then it certainly is, but really, as I said at the outset, I would have liked this legislation to have been able to be carefully, without such a hurry with regard to the budget laws, to be examined here in Parliament. But all in all perhaps this sort of summary could say that this legislation was not as weak as this was to be feared at some point. That debate around this legislation was rather intense, but it must be hoped that there is not some sort of terminology going on here, what other, future legislation might be taking the direction in which these concepts of paternity and maternity would actually disappear. But at this point in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I want you to do a good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u52	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u53	Now we will continue to discuss item 4 which has been suspended earlier in this plenary and the debate will continue. — Representative Tanus absent, representative Räsänen absent, representative Koponen, noora absent, representative Hyrkko absent, representative al-Taee absent, representative Mäkynen, Matias absent, representative Laukkanen absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u54	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u55	Mr President! The Government has submitted a proposal to Parliament for legislation on the reform of the employment seeker's service process and certain conditions for obtaining unemployment benefit. The main task of this proposal is a major reform of employment services, and since these reforms are now taking Finland and Finland's employment services towards the other Nordic countries' way of resourcing and organising services, the reform has been called the Nordic model of employment services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u62	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u63	Madam President! Dear Minister and fellow Members of Parliament! ‘It is absurd to put people on the I have received feedback in which people have said that government policy seems to want to put the unemployed on their knees and give them a headshot.” This is what Antti Rinne said in the Aamulehti on 5 January 2018, when the active model was discussed. The Marin government has now brought the active model number two to Parliament. We too believe that it is worthwhile to activate job search when there is a shortage of labour in the country, but at the same time to provide individual employment services for the unemployed. This presentation is quite precisely the same one that Juha Sipilä's government presented as a model of self-help job search, which the left-wing opposition then named the active model second. The job seeker has an obligation here, is forced to seek jobs depending on the labour market situation and the ability of the unemployed to work. The starting point is forced search for four jobs per month. The same starting point was also in that model prepared by Juha Sipilä's government, which fell last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u78	I note that there is an interest in some sort of debate, so I would ask those Members who wish to use the reply to stand up and press the V button. — — — — Mr Lindtman has the floor for the first time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u79	Mr President! When I listened to Mr Heinonen’s speech, I stayed to ask if that was the best you could do.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u82	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u83	Madam President! As I said, now the Sanna Marin government brings an active model number two.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u86	Congressman Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u90	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u91	Madam President! The representatives Lindtman and Mäkynen defended the fact that this active model in the second, or the active model in 2.1, is now being reduced. Yes, partly mitigated,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u95	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u96	Mr President! This is a terrible use of energy and energy to think about terms, when it would actually be even more relevant to talk about the content of this. This government proposal is indeed a Nordic job search model, which is therefore intended to provide a better and more personalised service to the job seeker. In other words, an effort to ensure that people of working age do not have to stay on the couch, but that they are supported for active and successful work at different stages of the job search process. I think that is a good thing once and for all. And we must remember that our employment rate must be brought to a higher level so that we can continue to maintain the Nordic welfare service.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u97	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u98	Irade the Talman! This is indeed a model that encourages both job search and then supports that job search. And, best of all, this is where an unemployed job seeker himself can influence how this will turn out. Your own activity will be rewarded. On the whole, however, we still have much to do with employment measures, although much has already been done. We have 50,000 job vacancies on the market, as many as 400,000 unemployed job seekers and the 110 million pot that will be decided in February. It's an important stage check. However, in order for it to be decided, preparations should be made in time. It requires action in various ministries. In that case, even if you put this euro-setting on the table, it will require preparation in the STM insurance department. All these options are now being prepared properly and in time so that a good decision can be made in February.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u99	Representative Said Ahmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u100	Mr President! This Nordic job-seeking model shortens fertility and secures people’s livelihoods. This model is customer-oriented. The unemployed person chooses which jobs he or she is looking for. At the same time, a thousand employees are employed at TE Offices to help people. This is indeed far from the previous government's active model, which was squirming and heartless. The Left Alliance does not believe in disciplining the unemployed; people's resources must be taken into account. Too strict a quantitative requirement for everyone is unreasonable and, in the worst case scenario, impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u101	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u102	Madam President! Indeed, there was a weakness in last season's active model that, for example, regionally we had a very different access to employment services and then to those jobs, and in that sense the 4.65% that was then cut out of the job seeker's allowances seemed very, very unreasonable. Mr President! Of course, this active model in the second, what it has also been called here in the Chamber, is compulsory, and I think that is what it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u104	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u105	Mr President! When starting this comparison of the active model of the previous period, it is good to remember that in the active model of the previous period, the job seeker really had to work or take part in these services so that this amount of unemployment benefit would not have been reduced. The problem was that this amount was reduced even if the job seeker had applied for these job opportunities if the job seeker did not lead to a job being found. In other words, in a situation where there were no job vacancies, it was not even concretely possible to get a job, even though you actively applied for it, the amount of unemployment benefit was still reduced. Well, in this Nordic labour model, the job seeker does not lose this unemployment benefit and its amount will not be reduced if the job seeker has applied for these job opportunities and implemented this work plan even if this job has not been found. In my opinion, this is a rather fundamental difference between the active model of the last period and this Nordic model of employment services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u106	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u107	Mr President! Let me be frank, I am in favour of this model that has now been put forward. [Left: Good!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u110	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u114	Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u115	Madam President! It is good to remember that each job seeker is a unique individual and each person has his or her own needs and personal challenges in his or her life or life situation. It is humane and necessary that employees should not under any circumstances be squeezed into the same mold, but that a personal employment plan should be drawn up to address the individual's own needs, the need for services, and that the requirement to apply should also be recorded together. But humanity seems to be a bit foreign to the opposition once again, and it is particularly annoying. In this Chamber, too, it has been shown many times that the Marin government is doing legislation in a humane and fair way, and it should be appreciated there too. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u116	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u117	Madam President! A meaningful job brings meaning and content and well-being to life. It is great that unemployed job seekers receive more individualised support for their job search and that the first encounter between job seekers and experts takes place more quickly. There will then be more support for job-seeking. Mr President! It is important that the employee's ability to apply for employment and employment is taken into account. If they are detected, they will be able to access services, rehabilitation and continuous learning. My question to the Minister is: how can rehabilitation and continuous learning be closely linked to this fine reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u118	I will give the floor to the representatives of Lindé, Wallinheimo and Eskelinen, followed by a minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u119	Madam President! We are now dealing with an equally important issue of employment policy: the model that will enable us to better deal with the job and the job seeker. Employment policy as such is a broad, large package, and I dare say here that the best employment policy is a good economic policy. For example, we have the most recent data on the employment rate, the August data — we do not yet have the September data: the August figure was 73.4 per cent, it is the highest throughout this statistical period. But to go this way: This is where better processes and increased resources are being sought. Then, of course, we always have a very hard-to-work group, where we need to find models for pension, rehabilitation, part-time work and subsidised work, which will then be our own. But with these three points, this whole thing can be handled well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u120	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u121	Mr President! I, too, am in favour of this Active Model Two. This is a good tool in the package that the government will undoubtedly need in the future. However, you are also looking for some 40,000 final jobs on your own sustainability road map, so these measures are needed. It is clear that here the left wishes to confuse the active model one and the second, but it does indeed resemble it very much. Active model two of the Sipilä government. And I don't want to start any cat-mouse game about what's an active model two here or during the Sipilä government, but those employment measures are needed, and we all know that this is at least a patting tool if not a stick tool, and they will, in a certain way, not be easy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for some information on the actions to be taken now, since some 40,000 final jobs are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u122	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u123	Mr President! Finnish employment services need reform, and this is going in the right direction. In addition, we have an urgent shortage of labour, we need individual employment services, and here they are now being offered. It is important for a young person or anyone who becomes unemployed, that an individual employment plan is drawn up at the outset and that the path by which he or she returns to work. The longer it is delayed, the harder it is to find employment. There is also the fact that this has now been heavily resourced, and what is essential is that now, to a very large extent, the personal employment plan and the individual assessment should go so far as to ensure that the resources are in place. It must also require training people in employment services and perhaps even a slight change of attitude, the introduction of this new model. It is also important to take into account the employee's ability to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u124	Secretary Haatainen, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u125	Mr President! There was a debate here about these failed employment measures by the previous government, which were first dismantled by this government because they were perceived as unfair and also unfair. In other words, if a person was given a mandatory job offer, he had to apply for that job, he applied for it but did not find employment, yet unemployment benefit was cut by nearly 5 per cent. [Right :Seonerisia! ] We are now also seeing a significant reduction in these sanctions, i.e. the severity. When, in the active model you missed so much earlier, 60 days immediately, if you did not apply for this mandatory job offer, here comes a reminder of your first failure. The next one's gonna be a five-day quarantine. Then if you still don't do what you've agreed to together, you're gonna have a 10-day haircut. But in that active model, which is still in force at the moment, there will be 60 days immediately and then the next one will be the end of the payment of unemployment benefit. I mean, it's kind of a relief, isn't it? Well, why lighten these carnivals? Because now that a little more comparative research has been carried out, it has been found that the severity of these toughness is not the one with the impact on employment, but the employment effect is precisely those strong services. In other Nordic countries and elsewhere, there are far less severe temperaments than we do. Finland has been a harsh country in this respect and they are now being relaxed to a reasonable degree. But I also think that the consequences should come from it if we do not comply with the agreed rules of the game. It has been the basic premise of Finnish social security that we have a causality and then also an obligation to do what is agreed. Here Mr Kinnunen asked how this rehabilitation and continuous learning are related. They are important issues, and these are what we are now solving, especially when we are doing this whole transfer of TE services to municipalities. A service centre for continuous learning and employment has been set up. It will be one of the major innovations in this respect that we will be able to link this education and work life even more closely together. Mrs Wallinheim spoke here quite rightly about intensive services. That is the case, and you asked about the follow-up. In line with its guidelines, the Government is still preparing further measures for employment. This isn't the end of it. Mr Biaudet then rightly pointed out that in these TE-digit services, and in other digital services too, the user orientation is often forgotten. These digital services are now being completely overhauled, and for many years the labour market market market has been under preparation, which will then be linked to this permanent learning and employment service centre, and business cooperation will take place there. It will be turned into a user-friendly soil, a platform in which both people seeking work and companies, training providers in the same place will find that they are not shredded in that world. And then this, too... I know, I've been through them, and it's pretty tricky. So this user-friendliness needs to be the number one thing in all digital services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u126	We shall now proceed to the list of — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u127	Madam President! A young man recently told me about his own unemployment. His municipality of residence is involved in a municipal experiment. When unemployment began, he was contacted by a municipal experiment official. “I’m looking for your personal help, ” the official said. Save the number, you can always call when you need it.” We worked out an employment plan, started working together to map jobs, build a path forward. Help came close, it did not remain a form or an impersonal voice. The young man was genuinely helped and encouraged — the unemployment situation did not seem so discouraging. In this case, a new job was found quickly. The job seeker and the clerk rejoiced at the job found together. Mr President! A meaningful job brings meaning, content and well-being to life. This reform wants to help people find employment. The Finnish welfare society has been built with hard work. Work is also the only way to maintain this Nordic welfare society. Finland has long struggled with lower employment than other Nordic countries. It has become clear that the current employment services are not sufficient. We need a service that genuinely takes care of the unemployed and is more close to people. Mr President! The basic principle of the Nordic Employment Service model is that a jobseeker is not left alone. The municipalities involved in the municipal employment experiment offer considerably more support immediately after registering as a job seeker. The idea is to help and support active job search, because without active job search you cannot get a job. The unemployed person must apply for at least four jobs a month — the majority of the unemployed are already looking for more. In the future model, the initial interview, in which the situation is mapped out and an employment plan is drawn up, will take place within five working days. The job seeker meets the official every two weeks for the first three months. Currently, the job seeker meets the official within two weeks of the start of the job search and then in three months. The difference in timetables is really significant. We're taking big leaps in the right direction. Mr President! This reform is not about punishing the unemployed. The penalties shall be applied step by step starting with the remark. No one is required more than what their own abilities are sufficient for. Each employment plan is drawn up on an individual basis. Job offers are received, and the unemployed seek only places they can expect to reach. This reform is therefore genuine support for the unemployed. Humanity is the starting point. From research, we know that regular encounters, active placements and monitoring of job search will significantly reduce periods of unemployment. Every Finn is worth a meaningful job. The opportunities for continuous learning and rehabilitation will also be developed in parallel, so that everyone can find their place. Finland needs all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u128	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u129	Mr President! In addition to social importance, work is of great importance to man himself. Your work and earned income bring freedom of choice and opportunity to pursue your own dreams. Although we also talk a lot about the problems of well-being at work, which are indisputable and real, it is clear that, as a rule, work supports the well-being of the individual. At best, the work produces pleasure and success experiences and gives meaning and content. Work in itself often also brings socialism, a person’s closeness to another person, that is, communication. President! The Government's proposal is a so-called Nordic job search model. Its purpose is to provide a better and more personalised service to the job seeker. All of us have heard stories about job seekers who feel at the mercy of the system. The services offered may have been perceived as inappropriate and obligations as a nuisance. The purpose of this presentation is to meet a person as a person, to help him. The unemployed person is in a difficult situation and each of us reacts to unemployment in our own way. Human and personal support is often a prerequisite for success. Applying for a job must be an opportunity to succeed and not just an obligation to fear consequences. The goal of employment services and job search must therefore be to get a quick job and re-employment. In the Government's proposal, the jobseeker will receive individual support faster and more intensively than before. The opportunities to influence one’s own job search are also growing. President! The basic principle of the Nordic Employment Service model is that a jobseeker is not left alone. The rights and obligations of the jobseeker must be balanced in order to gain confidence in the system. In the end, this is the essence of everything. President! The Nordic Employment Services model is one of the biggest government employment decisions and is estimated to increase employment by around 10,000 people. More work means more tax revenue and less social spending. Its starting point is respectable. I believe that all of us here hope that this objective will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u130	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u131	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will continue. — Representative Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u132	Mr President! The goal of our country's government is to make Finland carbon neutral by 2030, which means that the government is in the forefront of its climate action to shift the last jobs in our industry beyond our country's borders. At the same time, the Government strongly wants to increase work-related immigration to trample on the earnings development of Finns. And now the government has brought us a presentation in which the Green Left has turned to the city centre's demand for an active model from the 2nd, where 1200 employees are employed on the public side of the Employment and Economic Development Offices in 2020. Then why is the government hiring them? As the government is bringing to the delight of the unemployed, the active model for the second, and for this weakling, the government needs supervisors to impose sanctions on the unemployed, the unemployed. So, with its actions, the government transfers employees to the card and, at the same time, with reduced tax euros, hires an active model for second-hand carnivores to whip the unemployed. The price tag for this activity is approximately EUR 70 million per year. Next year, the activation model 2 will be implemented with EUR 70 million from the EU Recovery Facility. And as we know, Finland will pay considerably more for the recovery instrument than it will receive, so the active model will cost the second to a real cost of approximately EUR 220 million next year. The costs of the following years are then likely to be covered by tens of millions of euros of tax increases in heating fuels. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Would it not be better to take measures to safeguard industrial capacity and jobs in Finland than to make tax increases to finance the implementation of the active model two? Now that the government is digging up an active model from the scrap of the bad ideas of the Second Left Alliance, at the same time it has now also removed the pension line from the older working population. And the government did not accept over 55-year-olds even in the municipal employment experiment, which is accessible to all under 30-year-olds and to all immigrants and foreign-language speakers immediately at the beginning of unemployment. People over the age of 55 will only be eligible when they become long-term unemployed. In fact, the older unemployed are now left to their own devices only with the active model's tempers. This is what the former Labour parties are now doing in the Marin government. The active model in the second Employment and Economic Development Office or the municipality would provide job seekers with an estimated 2.3 million initial interviews, job search discussions or supplementary job search discussions per year. Today, the equivalent is estimated to be about a million copies. In order to fulfil the required job-seeking obligation, it is estimated that some 14 million job applications or other job-seeking events per year would be made by jobseekers. The active model of the Sipilä government compared to the active model of the second, the active model of the Marin government, in the second, will, of course, be relaxed, which is a good thing, and the resources of the employment offices will be increased. In practice, however, the government is setting out a model that is almost identical to that which the same parties in the opposition in the last period were very critical of the regime parties back then. The number of people employed will certainly increase in employment offices and it will cost tens of millions to implement the model, but the increase in the number of people employed will threaten to remain modest. The best solution would be to address the problem of matching and to find solutions that would bring education and training to the labour-intensive sectors. It is difficult to imagine that any job search training and the like will help anyone to find employment in any way if it is simply that there is no work available at the place where the job seeker resides for his education. Active model 1 cut unemployment benefit by 4.65%, i.e. in practice one day without compensation per month. The active model now presented in number two suggests that if a job seeker did not fulfil his job-seeking obligations, a remark would first be made, followed by a five-day qualifying period, which would in practice lead to a cut of less than 25% of the monthly unemployment benefit. A third time would then take up half the monthly unemployment benefit. Many of the parties who issued their opinion on the draft opinion considered the draft job seeker's service process and job search obligation to be too formal and complex. In addition, the authors of the opinion drew particular attention to the adequacy of the resources allocated and to the fact that the increased efficiency of the job seeker's service process has an impact on the growth in demand for other services. It is certain that, as a result of this model, companies will have to accept an absurd number of applications for employment from jobseekers who are seeking a defined number of jobs only because there are no sanctions. The total number of job seekers is estimated to be around 14 million job applications or other job-seeking events per year. This application bombardment means that a considerable amount of working time is being wasted on those who receive applications in companies. This also means that companies may no longer react to applications when they are time-consuming. This also means that the jobseeker does not receive feedback from the company as to whether the application has even been processed, which may further frustrate the sender of the application. If employment services focus on quantity rather than quality, it is clear that the effectiveness and usefulness of these services will suffer. At the same time, the number of applications that formally meet the requirements laid down by the Employment Office, but which do not allow any employers to hire them, may increase considerably.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u133	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u134	Mr President! Now we are dealing with an active model — yes, an active model. After all, the government has promised that the active model would not come, but it now shows that it is strongly coming and that it is similar to the one it used to have been. Maybe this is one of those retroactive models number two, if I may say so. There's going to be a lot of orders to apply for four jobs a month. Of course, this is quite a lot, and it certainly raises quite a lot of questions. And the questions that this raises: I wonder, then, what are the chances of employing such hard-to-work people? Is this any help in that matter? Then, if there are simply no jobs, if there is no job in the area where you live, which is equivalent to jobs, training or skills, how about the fact that car costs — taxes and so on — are rising in Finland and the car costs are quite expensive if you have to keep your own car, and the public in Finland are not working very well now. I'm sure there'll be questions. So what if you think about these companies when you start coming in a bunch of these applications, how do you actually process them? It may be that there will be really big bundles of these applications. Somehow it would seem that perhaps more could be done here to focus on the fact that it is worth taking the job. The kind of debate I would need and also such legal reforms to make it worthwhile to accept work. After all, having a short piece of work today does not necessarily make sense to accept it, it does not really make sense. That I hope for consideration from the government and also that we put the individual ahead, that we put a great deal of effort into that individual, that is important here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u135	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u136	Thank you, Mr President. The work is the best social security, and I think it is very commendable to the government that this bill is now coming to Parliament. The name whether this is now a work service model or an active model number two does not really matter. The main thing is that there is a positive momentum here, a positive incentive for Finland to invest more actively in the availability of labour and finding work, and that we are moving more and more towards the Nordic employment rate, closer to 80 per cent, which must definitely be the target we are going towards by the end of this decade. This law has a positive impact on employment, estimated at about 9500. However, I would like to shorten or correct the claim previously heard in this Chamber that the employment measures of the Sipilä Government were not successful, that they had failed: I believe that we must recognise and recognise that the centre-led government then created nearly 140 000 jobs in this country, with the help of the Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru, and I do not think that they can be said to have failed in a single position. Now this presented active model number two is an improvement on what the previous government did. It has, as it were, taken up the best aspects and addressed difficult issues, so that, if it is simply not possible to fulfil those obligations, then it will not be punished. That is the case, as the previous representative well said, that there must be an opportunity to apply for a job and there must also be an opportunity to receive that job. It cannot be that conditions are set that would be impossible to meet somewhere in the country, which was the main problem of its previous active version. Yes, we also need to discuss more widely in Finland that rights and obligations must be balanced, that all of us who have no health or other reason not to accept a study or a job also have obligations towards this society. When society supports, all of us individuals must also have responsibilities. I believe that the fact that more and more people are getting more and more help to find a job, and that more and more people are getting away with it, is an important employment policy, and we should continue along this path. As I said at the beginning, Mr President, we must be on our way to the Nordic employment rate, and all the means to encourage and enable more people to work are welcome, and I thank you for this proposal. I believe that this is a step in the right direction and that we will continue with the good legacy that has already been established under the Sipilä Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u137	Thank you. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u138	Mr President! Increasing the employment rate is one of the main objectives of this government, and the aim of this bill is to improve employment by at least 9,500 employed persons. Employment has started to rise significantly better than expected in the aftermath of the corona crisis, but we still need further measures to improve the employment rate. In order to finance the sustainability of the welfare state, it is important for everyone to have equal access to the labour market. The thresholds for working life must be kept as low as possible so that no one — young, elderly or disabled — is excluded. Extending compulsory education and increasing higher education places will contribute to employment in the future. Education and lifelong learning make it possible to change the sector as the world changes. The introduction of basic income would solve many incentive traps and reduce the red tape of unemployment. It must always be worthwhile to accept the work and do the work. Mr President! The number of long-term unemployed has doubled in Finland over the past two years. We know from the studies that the longer a person is unemployed, the harder employment becomes. The causes of unemployment are diverse, and it is often a human tragedy in which people need help and support. Long-term unemployment can be effectively prevented by active intervention and support at an early stage, and that is what this legislative proposal now before us is doing: improving support for the unemployed. I welcome the fact that an initial interview should be held within five days of the start of unemployment instead of the current two weeks. Overall, the aim is to provide a more individualised service and more multidisciplinary support. Mr President! In the beginning of last March, the municipal trials of employment began, in which 118 municipalities were transferred from the Employment and Economic Development Office to municipalities with the most difficult jobs, i.e. the long-term unemployed, immigrants and young job seekers. This experiment will last until the end of 23 C.E. The aim of the local employment experiment is to promote employment and improve the services of the unemployed by better linking the municipal services and employment services together and by pooling the resources of the municipality and the Employment and Economic Development Office to better serve unemployed jobseekers. It aims to provide employment services as far as possible on a one-stop shop basis, and the other advantage is that municipalities are better acquainted with the employment situation and employment opportunities in their region. In a way, these go hand in hand: now this Nordic service model also aims to provide those services when they are needed as soon as possible. Mr President! I see, therefore, that improving the effectiveness of employment services is a key means of reducing unemployment, and this bill will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u139	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u140	Mr President! To this very beginning, I would like to say that the Nordic model of employment services is not an active model of the previous period, nor can it be. In other words, I think that this proposal is too important and too expensive for this barking term that we want to use and, of course, it also partially blurs the changes and realities that this proposal contains. Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government has taken employment policy very seriously and has started to improve employment without compromising ambition in a sustainable and fair way, and it seems to be disturbing to someone in this Chamber. This set of proposals is part of the government's employment measures. Although the political speech has flashed echoes to the previous government’s presentations, there is a difference in policy in practice than at night and during the day. This proposal is coming up with a comment, a clear reduction in the severity of the problem, and employment services also receive resources for a face-to-face service. That is certainly what we all want in this Chamber for an unemployed job seeker, a face-to-face service where there is a clear need for it. At the heart of the proposal is to learn from the good and proven practice of neighbouring countries. We want to shorten periods of unemployment and help people get back to work, and here is the key difference between the policy of the previous government: we believe in supporting people. Even research evidence shows that in employment measures, the design of the stick line does not work in its simplicity. It also shows the difference in starting point that the current government believes that people want to find employment. We are living in the cross-wave of many powerful structural changes. As a result, the challenge lies in meeting problems where people's education and skills do not meet the challenges of today's working life. This government has taken a number of measures to address this problem since the extension of compulsory education and a number of legislative initiatives to reform employment policy. In the future, we will be able to provide tailor-made services more quickly. The necessary resources for TE Offices and municipalities have also been added to this. The proposal encourages job-seeking. At the same time, I do not believe that anyone is required to do something that he cannot do, but that every job seeker's ability to work and, for example, the labour market situation in the region is taken into account when drawing up the employment plan. Further consideration must be given to the fact that mobility to another place can be extremely difficult in a situation where public transport no longer exists. This must not lead to unreasonable situations for the unemployed themselves, and this will certainly be the subject of supervision here in the Chamber, if I do not say so. Mr President! Employment policy must continue to be done in a socially just way, and attention must be paid instead of discipline.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u141	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u142	Mr President! I did not think of having a history review here, although, admittedly, we are dealing with an issue that has already been before in this Chamber. This so-called active model number two: Just enough from the background that when it was being carried forward in early 2018 — I think it was then called the self-motivated job search model, and then the then opposition called it the active model second — the SAK organized a huge demonstration at the Senate Square against this active model and the active model two, and as a result, and as a result of the active activity of the opposition here, the then government withdrew from this law project and was not taken forward. It was a mistake, of course, that it was not taken forward, if you think there was a shortage of labour at the time, now we are again in a shortage of labour. And now that it is estimated that the employment impact of this project will be 9,500 working years, you can only ask how many jobs we have lost in the meantime when this system has not been in place. It has been quite a number of years since this system could have worked. As such, Mr President, I personally support this model and acknowledge to the government that it is now well established that these services for the unemployed, for individual services, are also very important here and that is something that has been taken forward for years through these municipal experiments. I myself have also been involved in the workshop in my own locality, the current Sastamala, for more than one decade, in which the long-term unemployed have been targeted at employment through individual services and results have also been achieved. And when we all know how successful Denmark has been, for example, I believe very strongly that we will be able to help those who are unemployed to find new jobs with active help, and that must happen quickly. In that sense, the good thing about this model is that the first contact takes place after five days and then every two weeks. It must be remembered that when a person becomes unemployed — it may be that a large factory is caught or reduced by a large number of people through the negotiations — even if the starting point has been the same, then everyone's path in the labour market is individual, and then it is very important that we immediately take a catch and support that new employment. We know that the vast majority of people are employed in the first three months, and we also know that if you have been unemployed for more than six months, the likelihood of long-term unemployment is many times higher. So the stakes that are made at this beginning are, of course, reasonable. This is the model with which Denmark has been successful for a long time, and in that Danish system they will invest in this staff, which will help to increase the number of jobs compared to Finland, but, by the same token, they will pay significantly less unemployment benefits because people will re-employment more quickly. This is a sensible model. Of course, in order for this to work all the way, this would also require financial incentives in addition to this, for example, the differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefit according to the duration of unemployment. But in any case, this is a good starting point, and I am in favour of this — and I believe that the group that I represent also fully supports this. It is now a good thing that the government now admitted that what was prepared under Lindström's leadership in 2018 was a good solution. Indeed, we have lost a few years in this labour shortage. According to Statistics Finland, when we have more than 51,000 vacancies, many of these jobs could already have been filled if this system had already been in place. But it's a good thing we can move on now. So when it's time to say thank you, I thank the government. Of course, I am a little surprised that quite a few are government lines when there seems to be little of those who give thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u144	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I tried to ask these questions when the minister was there. Unfortunately, I did not receive the floor, but I hope the Minister will listen to this and I will receive an answer in some other context. However, first of all, before I ask my question, I would like to talk about why, in the previous debate, the comments of the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance in particular were surprised. During the last term of government, the scream was pretty great about this active model that the guitars were swinging. That is why, of course, one wonders that at the time this type of activity was sticking and disciplining, and now it is better service and balanced action. It has now changed slightly on that journey. I would have asked the Minister, and I ask, I have asked several times: long-term unemployment has grown out of control. In Uusimaa it has grown by about 60 per cent in a year. That's a crazy amount. Think about it: 60%. And, of course, it's a good thing we're looking for ways to do that. I myself believe that if you do not want to voluntarily work or study, then you will have to have some kind of sanctions, I do agree with that. But the finances of the municipalities are very poor, and we know that very well, and now many municipalities have survived with corona subsidies, such as my municipality of Hyvinkää. We would have had a more difficult situation without interest rate subsidies, but now, this year, we will see what happens because we do not know what the interest rate subsidies are for this year at least. And in addition to this, these fines are imposed. In other words, municipalities have to pay fines for the long-term unemployed, and we now hear that in Uusimaa, for example, it has risen by 60 per cent in a year. This means that more money must be spent on fines for increasing unemployment, i.e. long-term unemployment, on the finances of municipalities. I hope now, those representatives of the government parties — Mr Lindén, you are here, you are very active often, Mr Mäkinen, you are in your party’s vice-chairman: could you take this forward — you are also the municipal decision-makers — that the municipalities are genuinely being met with these fines? I think it's been a long time, that the municipalities should somehow force the people to... Should all of them then be taken to work for the municipality, or what would be the solution? I don't think so. This is what I am appealing to you, Social Democrats: you now have the Prime Minister's briefcase, so take this matter to the finish line now, and save the Finnish municipalities, even though it was the task of the centre, but if the Social Democrats would do it now. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u146	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Matias, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u147	Mr President! We are now dealing with this model of the Nordic Employment Service, which involves three key elements. The first is the additional resources of additional staff for employment services: around 1200 new employees who will meet people there, especially in the early stages of unemployment, at a faster pace in the future than hitherto. The second part is the reduction of the severity, which means that this balance of rights and obligations is balanced in such a way that the severity, the sanctions, are no longer as severe as they were before, but they still exist there. If repeated negligence occurs, unemployment benefit can even be taken away altogether for the time being, but it is further away than before. And thirdly, this job-seeking obligation, which we have, of course, had in unemployment benefit until now. In the past, it has worked in such a way that the Employment and Economic Development Office has assigned jobs that the unemployed person must apply for. From now on, it is going in the direction that the unemployed can have more influence on what jobs they are looking for and then, depending on the regional labour market situation, how many jobs there are in the first place, and on the individual's personal situation. And that is the key difference between employment policy in the last parliamentary term. In this debate there has been talk of an active model 2 in which there really was a common element that this job search obligation existed in the active model 2 as well as now in this Nordic employment service model. On the other hand, these additional resources are now at a completely different level — EUR 70 million, 1200 new employees — than in the last period, and this alleviation of the handicaps will be taken further than last year's plans. And most importantly, the original active model that today’s government dismantled because it was perceived to be unfair is completely missing: a person could be cut off from unemployment security even if he had acted entirely according to the rules. Even if he had done everything the employment authorities require of him, but there is no job to be found, then he would have had this kind of surgery done. This is what we broke, and this is part of this package of employment services. So now this job search obligation, combined with all this other labour market policy, is a much more humane option, and it is also more individual, because by increasing the number of staff in employment services, we will also be able to deal with people much more personally and with their skills, their health, their personal situation in general, and, on the basis of it, we will be able to make a personal plan for what is the best way forward, through which the open labour market would be easiest and best to find employment in the future. There is a need for services and, as Mr Meri has just pointed out in this Chamber, the municipalities will play a very important role in this in the future. Now the municipal trials are about to begin. In the future, the role of municipalities in employment activities will continue to be strengthened, and municipalities will have a much wider opportunity to help people find employment in the future than, for example, the TE Centres have hitherto had. Such a comprehensive and humanised service is the important clue to the various reforms that the government is now making in terms of employment and employment policy. The second whole is then, of course, benefits. Mr Reijonen referred here to the fact that it should always be worthwhile to take up a job, and this is a very central issue that is currently being considered in the Social Security Committee. There is a very broad consensus between the parties that our social security system needs to be simplified. In terms of unemployment security, we do not have any incentive traps, i.e. a situation where it would not be worthwhile to take up a job, because we have a very well-functioning, well-adjusted daily allowance system, but we have one of the biggest problems for people who are receiving unemployment benefits at the same time, labour market support, income support, housing support, so many benefits overlap, and this patchwork must now be simplified, and I understand that we are reasonably in agreement in this Chamber, and that is a good thing for this committee to be able to move forward in its work. In other words, humanity, individuality, services and benefits for people according to their own life situation — it is the big line of labour policy in this government, and the Nordic model of employment services is one part of it, one concrete indication that we are now implementing it. And what is significant is that a lot of additional personnel are now being made to serve people personally. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u148	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u149	Mr President! At the moment, economic growth is strong at global level and it will improve the employment situation and it is positive, but we are well aware of all the forecasts that this is not necessarily going on for a long time, and that is why we really need strong measures to strengthen the foundations of Finnish society and the national economy. To date, the government has made some decisions on the pension pipeline, on the continuation of compulsory education and on the introduction of a municipal employment experiment, and on some energy tax solutions and the like, but the government has not taken the swift measures to improve the employment situation and the structures in particular so that we can safely look at the recession that will inevitably come to an end, not long after this huge recovery, which will be done with our money in Europe for 750 billion — or it will probably amount to 800 billion today — and in the United States and elsewhere. Then, of course, we will be in a whole new situation, and the prospects will be very worrying in that regard. Measures are therefore needed to make economic growth and employment more sustainable, and these tricks alone are not sufficient. Every six months the government has moved employment policy measures forward. I recall that, under Prime Minister Rinte's leadership, 19 working groups were set up in the summer to consider employment measures. It had until January 20 or perhaps March 20, then it was postponed to the next autumn budget debate, then the deadline for the measures was postponed again six months later, and now we are in the position of waiting for the end of the fifth period at the beginning of next year. It is always postponed and postponed, and the measures are missing, and I cannot believe that there will be any proper measures, because this government is a lobby-based government that is unable to take the necessary, painful decisions that the Finnish economy and employment would require. Mr President! The active model was discussed here in Parliament at the end of 2017. On 19 December 2017, it was put to the vote and adopted by 103 to 90 votes. The Finns voted against the motion at the time, and I remember that, for my part, especially because they treated the periphery and provinces of the country in a very disproportionate regional manner, and of course there were other factors that could not be supported. Back then, the Finns of Peru were in the opposition and the Blues took this with the Coalition Party and the Centre, and that 103 tells us that the bottom of the government was quite narrow at that point. At that time we also presented a impetus in which we insisted that it corrects the flaws that were present in the active model. Well, then this present government overturned it, and we agreed with that repeal. Now we are dealing with the new active model. The two active models were being prepared, and now, as Mr Lehto said, this is an active model 2.1. I refer to Mr Lehdo's good speech, in which he said that this model is certainly a good one, but there is also the stick, that is to say, the weakening of unemployment security, which is precisely what the left-wing opposition to the previous government was very critical of. So this is not going to fix those problems the way they should be. We should have far more extensive structural reforms in order to get the economy on the right track in a sustainable way. Mr President! That is where Mr Meri raised those municipal fines, and indeed we in Jyväskylä, for example, when the budget is made for next year, the very sharp rise in long-term unemployment will bring a further bill of millions next year to the city when more than 20 million fines are paid. Until a couple of years ago, it was less than 10 million. This will absorb heavily the funds needed to promote jobs and livelihoods from the regions where there is high long-term unemployment. Of course, there is a need for Kela, but you can ask whether this model is now at all reasonable, which we have in use today. Therefore, like Mrs Mere, I would urge the government to deal quickly with these shortcomings and problems in the system of fines and with what it is leading to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u150	Thank you. — Representative Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u151	Mr President! The list looked like Mr Lindén had been before, but it was a bit wrong to put it there. Mr President! To this end, it must be pointed out that, some two to two years ago, the Left Alliance was still opposed to the 'active model 2' and said that it was part of a pile of bad ideas. It would be nice to know what the members of the left-wing union feel — although they have not seen much here today — whether this is still part of the scrap heap. Well, at least when you look at the left-wing pages, you’re ‘stopping the continuation of the active model’, ‘active model 2, no thanks’. I wonder what the representatives of the other government parties will think about this when you are bringing this active model number two and some of the people are still running a campaign online in a different direction? Well, I understand the Left Alliance, but I do not understand how they have now stumbled into this idea of the city centre and agreed to the idea of the city centre. Well, I visited the TE Services website this morning to check out job search notices. There were 30,600 vacancies, of which 9,500 were filled with experts, managers, or entrepreneurs. Other jobs numbered 21,100, of which 17,000 were full-time or shift jobs. Of these, there were fewer than 11,000 places where the duration of employment was more than 12 months. Well, we know that when these applications have to be put away, then that 11,000 jobs will then be picked up by this army of hundreds of thousands of unemployed and banged up its 14 million applications. It may be that they do not like recruitment there, in these companies which submit their applications to TE services. Well, on the other hand, when it comes to forcing these applications to put them there and here, I do understand that this is the wish of the assembly and the centre that people apply for, that you get, when you have a couple of hours' working days and such, temporary work, part-time work and part-time work and a couple of days' employment. There is a need for workers, and this is how we can force part of it to go, when we have to put the application and there the employer will be happy to accept it, even if the employee loses it. But let's see and listen to what that left-wing union will say when it gets here at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u152	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u153	Mr President! Two more points. I will take part in this debate. First of all, in response to what Mr Lehdo has just said, I have the feeling that the whole Chamber is in favour of this bill and of this system, but for some reason it is now making a huge speech that has been put out of practice, or at least this reminds me of something that has been opposed in the past. So this kind of wording revolves around this, but isn't this the point of the matter, however, the most important thing that can be done is to make a rational model that will then improve for its part our employment situation. But I actually asked to speak after Mr Satonen dealt very well with that situation in Denmark, and he has the next floor, so if he is willing to do so, he can continue if necessary. For some reasons I have followed the situation in Denmark a little better than average, and it was also the country that our Committee on Social Affairs and Health got to before the corona started to make a very short visit to it during the autumn 2019 season. If you correctly summarise the difference between Finland and Denmark — I am not referring to differences in procedure, but to differences in results — then when we discussed this issue in the autumn of 2019 at the seminar there on the Danish trip, in the previous year the unemployment rate in Finland was 7 per cent and in Denmark 5, Finland 7 and Denmark 5, but the average number of working Danes was 30 hours per week and the average number of Finns 35 hours per week. In fact, Finland produced more hours than the population, but the difference was that more people in Denmark worked, there were considerably different lengths of working hours per week than in Finland. In Finland, this very clear patterned thinking, as full-time as possible, or is completely out of the labour force, was more dominant. In the social and health sector in particular, which was of course also in the interest of the committee, it was clear that the organisation of work was different in many ways, i.e. more flexible than in Finland. This is just here as an observation of the situation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u154	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u155	Mr President! Just a few more thoughts, on the basis of Mr Lindén's speech, but also on the basis of what Mr Kankaanniemi has said. In my opinion, the Kankaanniemi quite rightly described the fact that in this central bank-driven economy, which is entirely based on money printing and over-indebtedness at all levels — households, businesses, states and et cetera — there are serious risks that this will collapse at some point. Then, of course, the question is how to deal with it. And the key thing is that if we have a large number of people who are very capable of working, then — even when they have lost their jobs — they will find new jobs or be able to train them for new jobs. In other words, if we have a very broad and solid workforce, then we will be able to cope even if the world economy is going badly. But then, in turn, quite the opposite, so that there will never be such a good economic situation and economic time... If this increase in our long-term unemployment continues at the level it has been in recent times and if we cannot stop it, then we will have so many people out of these labour markets that the financing of this whole welfare society will be jeopardised through this system. This is a really big deal. We must remember that if there are some of the job vacancies now — depends little on who to ask, this is Statistics Finland’s figure — 51,000; and if 30,000 people are employed and specifically those who are currently unemployed get 30,000 jobs, then the public finances will be strengthened by almost one billion, and it will be strengthened by nearly one billion a year: it will also be strengthened in the following year and one billion in the following year. So this is a really big deal. Not to mention the fact that each of us knows that, even in his own circle of acquaintances, people who have been unemployed for a long time are at the greatest risk of being excluded from this society. And it also has a huge human price so that these means must now be used. In my opinion, this is a good balance between the development of its active activities, their individual services and, on the other hand, this system of sanctions, which I have the courage to defend in this respect. There will probably be some unnecessary applications, but it is not the idea to encourage people to submit unnecessary applications; it is the idea to get job vacancies filled more quickly and people more quickly from unemployment back to work and to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u156	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u157	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Satonen spoke very well, and I am sure you can agree with all these aspects. I, too, am in favour of this government proposal. It is good that the government has adopted an active model and wants to make an active labour market policy. But then again, Mr Lindén's excellent speech and comparison with Denmark. Indeed, I would like the government to be able to accept more flexibility in its own thinking in Finnish working life, because it is clear that, as the conditions for doing work can be agreed more locally, we will be able to move towards the situation described here by Mr Lindén, that working time can be more flexible and then also that the tasks are likely to be carried out in such a way that all the best forces can be harnessed for the most productive work possible. When the cake of the whole economy grows as much as possible, there will be more new job opportunities for everyone. And when we get to such a situation where the national economy is truly dynamic, new jobs are created, everyone can be sure that even if their own employment relationship ends, there will be new opportunities. In this respect, we have much to learn from Denmark. It is important not only to have an active labour market policy of this kind, but, in fact, to make it possible for the open sector to complete all employment opportunities with more flexible regulation and agreement. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u158	Thank you. — Mr Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u159	Mr President! This Nordic labour model will hopefully also move towards the higher employment rate in the Nordic countries, whether it is part-time or whatever, but we do need more people to work. And I agree with Mr Satonen that a good balance has been sought here between human obligations and also their rights and possible sanctions. We often talk about the Nordic employment rate, but the difference we have had has been that we have used far less resources for active labour policy, be it support measures or human resources in the employment office and labour administration. If we compare it with Denmark, for example, then before the interest rate, Denmark spent about 2% of GDP on employment services and we used one. And if we are also talking about levels of support, in fact, in Denmark unemployment benefit has also been higher than in Finland. The Danish model has also changed here over the years, but what I think is essential is that people receive personal service. When Denmark itself explained its own model, so they found that these interviews are important, but they are of greater importance in how they are done. If they are done in person, they increased employment by 4%, but if they are done in group interviews, their impact was not so great at all. And the fact that the personal service also highlights the genuine problems of employment — I believe that that effectiveness has come from it. If we think about the fact that we often talk about tougher sanctions in Denmark, then when, for example, Mr Satose and I visited there, I remember that when I asked the Labour Officer at one of the Jobcenters how to deal with these fines, the answer was that which fines, which sanctions. The service was so much stronger that the sanctions system had not to go. This system also applies to the sanction side for such fairness that as if mistakes and damages are not punished, but then if you repeatedly refuse to do so as if it were active job search, then it will already become unemployment benefit consequences. After all, we have the majority of people actively seeking work and the very jobs they are able to find employment in. Then there are people who are, as it were, unable to do that job search independently, and for that we need this better service. But now the big challenge for the future is how we can link our social and health services and employment services closely together, because one clear obstacle to employment in Finland is health and related problems. If we have employment services in municipalities and social and health services there are in welfare areas, then we need to build a close link. And another big challenge has to do with knowledge. Since we have a shortage of labour, we must find the bridge with which we will make sure that people who are unemployed who need training also get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u160	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u161	Mr President! I have listened to this debate outside the Chamber, and what we are talking about a little now in the government's employment policies is the way in which jobs are created. Now we are talking about employment services here and there is a great deal of investment, but just as much attention should be paid by the government to what brings them to jobs and to the private sector, because not everyone can work in the public sector. But what digs me up in this performance is that it used to be about language skills and integration, and now this proposal restricts itself to finding a job if the illiterate learns on his own. Now, of course, the first question arises to me: how many people do we have, if they have to be excluded from legislation, and when there are still people on the integration plan who have been exempted from this job-seeking obligation, how many years will this mean for those of us who have a migrant background that there will not be an obligation to do so? It didn't open for me from this show. Let us hope that this will be clarified in committee so that we do not suddenly have a situation in which immigrants in practice have been exempted from this job-seeking obligation for many years, which is certainly not in anyone's interest. Then there's another thing. Mr Meri has previously highlighted the increase in long-term unemployment, and now, in this proposal, once again, there will be no job-seeking obligation if you are over 25 years of age who have been unemployed for over a year and if there is a need for cross-cutting services. I understand that these multidisciplinary services must be made work, but on the other hand, work will certainly not come home to offer, so it would require the job search that could also help with long-term unemployment. If you're looking for that job, you can also get it. I would like to see these issues dealt with in the committees and, of course, the government's greetings that they are also needed to create jobs in this country. We cannot live on services alone either. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u162	Thank you. — Representative Bracelet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u163	Mr President! Just a few comments. I will catch this representative from Rantanen's private jobs. Of course, this will not, as a measure, increase the private jobs that we urgently need, but, instead, the Marin government has increased the public sector by 4500 during this period. This reform, this Nordic model, will continue to increase the number of mid-level managers, for example, and this is not a substitute for quality when we try to get the unemployed to work. This strange notion that the more people there are working, the more unemployed they will be able to get to work, is not true. There are major obstacles to this service process, and one of those obstacles is the ict systems, which I have asked many times about here from the ministers, but they have not answered them. There is obviously never going to be any greater reform. It cannot be that in the public sector more than one per cent of working time is spent on these systems. Then, of course, it must also be said that this whole reform is not based on an assessment of the problems in the field, how those processes should be reformed and changed there. It has only been stung like this in a huge number of new ones, and now has been acclaimed here no matter how long already by the fact that the Nordic model comes and saves. It will not come and save if the processes do not work, if the information systems do not work and if there are no private jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u164	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u165	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, the debate is now taking place here on this Nordic job search model, and the most important aspect of this reform is that this model will provide job seekers with better and more face-to-face services. At the same time, the job seeker’s service process and obligations will become clearer. I come late to this debate, Mr President, because I had experienced poverty and Members of Parliament at the same table, and the message there was quite clear that those seeking employment, including the long-term unemployed, often lacked skills, and the lack of knowledge on that occasion was, among other things, a lack of knowledge in relation to these digital services. Yes, President-in-Office, I now see this as being more up-to-date when face-to-face job seekers face face-to-face and, at the same time, taking into account the training needs of the job-seekers concerned. It has now been said that the public sector is now starting to swell, but yes I think that care should be taken to ensure that those resources are properly provided, so that it does not happen as in this current system, that an unemployed job seeker goes through this kind of mechanical system, where he will not be able to serve at that job search point but only record the data and put it in a pipe. Yes, the unemployed job seeker, the person seeking work, must serve there as a customer and as a person and not simply spin through the system and nothing happens. President! Why is this reform now being carried out? The employment rate in Finland is lower than in other Nordic countries. However, a higher employment rate is a prerequisite for maintaining and developing sustainable well-being in Finland, and the aim of this reform is to obtain an estimated 9,500 more employed people in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u166	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u167	Mr President! It is a good thing that this law came to the table and that the root causes of the search for employment are brought into play, which will probably contribute to employment. I have not heard all the speeches from this debate, but I believe that an important point has remained where the big line goes: I am very concerned about the current situation in Finland, where various active measures are being taken to limit the possibility of employment, for example through this climate policy. Finland is the cleanest country in the world. In this way, we have destroyed a huge number of jobs, and in practice we have driven our own energy production down and outsourced it to Russia. Last week I got a call from an entrepreneur. It is a bit bitter when he had seen it with his own eyes when a Finnish big entrepreneur apparently drives a pick-up truck to Finland with Russian trucks. A huge number of jobs were lost at the expense of the climate humma. It was supposed to be a good service for this country. That is exactly the opposite of what happened, we lost our own energy sources, we made a huge amount of emissions — is there any green ones here to hear? — when you drive across the Russian continent here with a variety of energy needs, and then you get peat when you don't get it from Finland. Growth peat is needed, and many more things are needed. A huge number of jobs were lost. All those entrepreneurs are down, the workers are down, a huge financial loss has been created, and money is flowing out of the country all the time. We're getting poorer all the time. It can't be like this. Of course, I understand that new climate policy measures are being taken, but they have to have calculations behind them, which is true and what is this climate project, which has become so expensive for this country. Look what's going on in this country: Now the price of electricity is rising with noise as a huge amount of energy is removed from CHP power stations when the peat runs out. We'll have a huge amount of electricity out of the market next winter. Who's gonna pay for it? It is paid by a tenant in Helsinki who pays expensive rent for his apartment, but also a huge energy bill. Then the entrepreneur pays more and more for his products when the electricity is expensive. Last winter there was a situation in Sweden where paper machines were shut down because of the increased price of electricity. It does not support employment; it makes the unemployed. We all know that getting some 30,000 unemployed people to work means a billion plus for public finances. This bill now before us is a good one, and I am not against it. I remember that at the time of Sipilä’s government, when the same thing was done and the goal was 110,000 jobs, there were 140,000, and an impartial external study showed that 60 percent of the long-term unemployed got jobs — more than half of them got jobs, the right job for the private market. This has to be the goal. Let us not stop jobs; let us make more jobs. We have a country full of opportunities when we stop, for example, cutting jobs and restricting construction. Rural communities have experienced this terrible experience. If you want to hear what it really is,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u168	Thank you. — I would ask you to focus on this legislative proposal. We still have another session and a long night ahead of us. — Representative Bracelet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u169	Thank you, Mr President. There was reference to this face-to-face service. That will not help at all if these information systems do not work, if such faulty and poor systems and processes are transferred to municipalities with their hairs on, and if and when there are no private jobs. I don't know if you know what's really going on at the TE Offices right now. It's a pretty critical situation. [Jomas Kettunen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u170	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u171	In view of the speeches made by Mr Rantanen and earlier by Mr Rantanen, I would point out that, when we look at the current employment rate, which was 73.4 per cent in August, which is the highest that has ever been in the history of statistics in August, and we compare it with the same month one year ago, as it should be compared, because, as we know, since August 20, 104,000 more jobs have been created in Finland and not all have come to any public sector. In my own debate — when the length of the speech was one minute, as it is — I divided this employment issue into three parts. I fully agree that the best employment policy is a good economic policy that creates demand and thus creates, could you say, a natural force for work and then for jobs? Then we have this where we are trying, as we are now doing with this legislation, to better meet the job opportunities offered by the employer and the opportunities and limitations of the job seeker. Then we still have the third person who deals with people who are very hard to work, where we really need to think about whether a person's place is retired or waiting for a job that he will never be able to get under those conditions. It involves part-time work, supported work and many other solutions. These are the three ingredients that make up this. Of course, the biggest volume is the first impact of economic policy. Of course, it speaks of hundreds of thousands when we are talking about a more limited number.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u172	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u173	Mr President! The key changes in this law are that, in order to support job search and guide services, the assessment of the needs of the unemployed for services will be developed and support for job search will be increased in such a way that the unemployed will be confronted at the beginning of the job search every two weeks, followed by a one-month period of intensive service after six months of unemployment. Now all we have to do is make sure that the person who is looking for work is not trapped in the system and that is not the place where the mechanical wheels are spinning. I agree with Mrs Rante that this should be the case when it also goes to the committee debate, that how to look at these information systems as a whole in the state administration, and not just on a ministerial basis. Then it will drown the person, the person seeking work there, if these systems are still silod. And how do you make more use of that knowledge and the data generated by job search in order to promote employment? Honorable Speaker! Statistics on Kainuu: At the end of August, nearly 3,000 unemployed job seekers in Kainuu, which is 256 fewer, 8 per cent less than one year earlier. This is August's data. At the same time, we have a desperate shortage of skilled labour in Kainuu and we have job vacancies. TE Services have announced new vacancies in August 1200. And this is what we need to find those solutions to the problem of confrontation. I believe that with this Nordic job search model we will respond to this problem as a solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u174	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u175	Mr President! Congressman Kettunen spoke the words of wisdom. I agree with him 100% exactly. [Jomas Kettunen’s interlude] The first is that when there are many people there who are unemployed and who have different illnesses, different types of injuries, I could imagine — I am not a doctor, but there are others here — Mr Lindén has just made good speeches here when I was listening to them in my office, and many other experts in the field know — that the ability to work for a multi-sick person has been largely lost. Directing such people with dignity into retirement would be fair. It is not to torture and run red tape in vain, but to give him that dignity and to direct him to a polite, honorable retirement, and that would allow his life to have such a peaceful situation and not always have to be afraid of what will happen tomorrow. The second point is this encounter with the unemployed. Of course, a person who is unemployed must not be punished. He needs to be supported, and it is absolutely essential that the human labour advisor — or whatever he is, the person in the employment administration — confronts the unemployed person in the nose, talks with him, settles the way forward. Each of us has been through this — last week, I tried to find out something online with the tax office, a little minor thing, but there was a lot of time in it. I don't have a cigarette when I don't smoke one, but it took a lot of time. I didn't feel bad about it, but then I went to the IRS myself and found out. But in any case, I would also like people not to be run in the bit jungle waiting in line for that telephone connection or, on the Internet, getting some information that is practically impossible — but very difficult. And think of a person who has the mental and financial strain of long unemployment on his neck. Surely he is not the most active member of society to actively defend his rights, which means that in the name of our love of neighbor we must be able to help these people. It is our duty to help those people who are in distress. This is how we have been taught since we were little, that you have to help your neighbor, that you have to help a friend. If anyone's in trouble, they'll be helped. I hope that the committee will draw attention to this during the course of its deliberations, that we will be able to improve this, because we have a lot of work to do in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u176	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u177	Mr President! I was just in the same situation where the unemployed met with MPs, where Minister Sarkkinen said: ‘Finland has almost 8000 people at risk of poverty and exclusion. This situation reflects the failure of society, not the failure of the poor.” I thought that statement was valuable. We currently have some 36,000 highly educated unemployed people. There an expert, an unemployed 54-year-old college student, said that he had filed 3,000 applications for work, received 20 requests for interviews. Eventually, his unemployment benefit was cut because he was not active enough. Now this reform, which is being pursued here, is important in such a way that it is being done right at the start when unemployment strikes, the employment plan. And yes, we must now be able to go in the legislative direction of turning all the stones, so to speak, and experimenting, so that these Finns, who really want to work, can get to work. And this system is really strange if you make 3000 applications and then because of a factual error in your application or process, your unemployment benefit is cut and accused that you have not been active enough. He asked if I should have made 5,000 applications to stay within its normal range. I support this proposal, and I hope that when it comes to committee it will improve. We have an enormously skilled, trained workforce out there who wants to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u179	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u180	Mr President! Mr Satonen here shared the concern I expressed in my own speech about this monetary policy of the European Central Bank, which has been artificially keeping interest rates very low for years, including with this huge debt purchase programme. The ECB is probably already spending between 5000 and 600,000 billion on these, and of course as long as this continues, as long as the situation remains stable throughout Europe, but one day it will inevitably end, we will have a very strange situation and even a frightening situation. This is not something we talk about here in Finland, whether this is in our interests or not. We have responsibilities, huge responsibilities through this, and this has kept employment and businesses up, including Italian companies that are bankrupt, and banks with huge numbers and countries in the Mediterranean countries. We cannot continue on this path, and when this goes into our arms in the next few years, this hall will be quiet then. You think about what you do, you don't mess with some small things. I just want to warn you that this is probably for the younger ones. [Jomas Kettunen’s interlude] Mr President! In fact, this is something that the President does not blame. For 30 years I have, over and above, been involved in the discussions on employment management, and I would say that about all the stones that have been reversible have been translated, but the result is that we have a huge group of long-term unemployed who are suffering enormously every day. And we have other unemployment, and our companies, even if they have jobs open, will not be able to hire from this group of workers, but will be calling for imports from India. Well, India was, of course, Nokia's CEO, but it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u183	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u184	Mr President! On this point, I fully agree with Mr Hoskosen that, obviously, we still have people in the statistics of the unemployed who do not have the actual capacity to work, and that is, of course, a problem of some kind, because then they also block these services when they cannot find employment. But when you think about both this debate and the previous debates, I cannot fail to continue to be surprised that there is a great deal of reluctance to talk about how the jobs of the open market, the private side, will become in this country. No matter how much we provide services, if we do not have jobs, what we show, that service is of no use. The second point is that, as has been said here — whether Mr Laukkanen, who has pointed out, there are 36,000 unemployed highly educated job seekers, but I believe that I have heard repeated chatter in this Chamber for the last six months about the need to bring us experts from abroad. Are our own Finnish higher education students not good enough for anything? It's very confusing. And as far as these other issues are concerned, I personally do not believe that this proposal is a pomp of employment, because we have a clear problem of encounters. If you look at Uusimaa, there were 102,000 unemployed job seekers here in August. There were more than 20,000 of them, which means that you can also be surprised at what the government is imposing on us when we already have so many foreign job seekers who are unemployed in this country and, in fact, only in Uusimaa. And then what about this long-term unemployment, which is in fact now excluded from the job-seeking obligation, is only providing services, so how are we going to get these people to work at the end of the day? There are more than 45,000 of them in Uusimaa alone. And this is a problem because in August nearly 31,000 vacancies were announced to Uusimaa. After all, this is a rather strange situation in which we have 102,000 unemployed job seekers and 30,000 jobs. This is probably the biggest problem we have in this employment sector, and in the capital region it will certainly be explained by many things, such as the cost of living and living, which, with the actions of this government, will be even higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u185	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u186	Honorable Speaker! By the way, there was a good opportunity for those who had experienced poverty and for the Members of Parliament at the same table. I also recommend this opportunity to the representatives of the People's Party of the People's Republic of Finland. Next year it will be organised, and I hope that people will also be seen there. Is this really the case that the country union centre, the centre of Finland, is the only party for the poor? I hope that there will also be solutions to this poor issue from the perspective of the Finns of Peru. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] This Nordic job search model is also part of how we get people looking for work, Finns working. This figure has now been highlighted, as Mr Laukkanen pointed out, that 36,000 educated Finns are currently unemployed. There is certainly also often the reason why skills, certain skills, have become obsolete. Now that we are talking about digital skills, this Nordic job search model is part of the solution to facing a job seeker as a person at the employment office, or what office it will be in the future in that municipality and city where the person seeking work as a person will be met, see what needs need to be trained, and then make it a study trail and then work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u187	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u188	Mr President! I, too, come from the same great opportunity — those who experienced poverty and those who spoke at the same table — and the issue of employment was very much on the agenda there. In fact, I am now paying more attention to these measures in the service sector in this draft law, which is particularly important because it is precisely these self-trainers' resources, and also training and skills, that are being increased in such a way that we are able to find their own path for each job seeker. These barriers to job search, obstacles to employment are identified there, and then the means will be found, and this service will be developed here. The needs of those with part-time skills and the way in which this employment agency is now being strengthened were also raised. Well, then we have talked about these skills that are missing, and digital skills were indeed identified as one factor, and we also need to invest in them. And it also comes from identifying what these missing skills are, and then looking for the appropriate training path. There, a large number of these measures have been identified in the strategy for continuous learning. For example, the target group is those aged over 55 who rely on basic education and who have found ways to do so. Well, the kind of feedback that came out was also about this treatment that the job seekers receive, and in this way, that if a poor experience is generated in the service, then it may then be an obstacle in the future that you dare not or do not want to, will not be able to apply to its job search service, and this raised the client boards and the possibility for the unemployed to influence the quality of the service as well. And also from universities, where the Finns here challenged that there is nothing about educated Finns: I see that it would be very important to create such means that if you have missed a degree, for example, you can complete that degree at an open university, you can update it with part-time degrees. You do not need to complete a new degree, but you can update your skills with part-time qualifications in such a way that you are well-performing in the labour market. In other words, the great menu is moving forward at the same time, and that is necessary and important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u189	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u190	Mr President! I have to say to both Kettunen, the representative of the centre, and Hopsu, the representative of the Greens: Now that you tell me that you are in the cause of the poor, is this really the case when you are constantly raising the price of living and moving here and certain taxes are rising? It's not like it's a poor man's business. Instead of going pasteurizing on these occasions, do in this hall the acts that are for the poor. And then I have to say that Mr Hoskonen, of the parliamentary group in the centre, very often represents common sense here, as he did today. He specifically pointed out that businesses have left work, including peat entrepreneurs. Don't you listen to your wise representative Hosko at all? He's here for the poor, isn't he? He also takes care of jobs, not just the services that you are now presenting as a solution to this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u191	Now I would ask you to focus on this matter and not on anything else. — Representative Bracelet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u192	Mr President! Mr Rantanen's excellent speech should be continued. I will return to these beautiful words and to these processes that are supposedly being developed there. It is quite clear that you do not have any idea in the government what is happening in the employment services there. They make hair, they do different courses, they bounce around in different activities and experiments. It's a trick job. That is quite clear. And you think that's not gonna happen. Even if it is not very much to expand this debate, I will raise the issue of the poor. A large proportion of the unemployed are poor. And what Mr Rantanen referred to is that the policy of your government is such that it impoverishes the Finns, including those who are not in employment. Do you think that your EU policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u193	Thank you. — Representative Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u194	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about a face-to-face meeting. There will be more, and it is a good thing that an unemployed job seeker is met face-to-face, but not all meetings here are face-to-face. There's quite a lot of these people here, whether they're using a phone or a video. But what is this steak is that now that we count all the meetings that the Employment and Economic Development Office makes a year, there can be as many as 2.7 million encounters, of which 1.8 million are on the spot. But if you consider that to be more than 2.7 million meetings, you will now make less than 900,000. This number of meetings will be more than tripled, but the number of staff who serve these unemployed personal customers at the TE Office will rise from 2080 to 3280. It's not exactly getting up in this respect. So how can that level of service increase when in practice a smaller group of people in relation to the number of visits is able to do those services? These resources will not be sufficient, this EUR 70 million and 1.2 thousand people at the TE Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u195	Thank you. — And Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u196	President! Now it has to be said that the discussion of the Finns is far from reality, if you think about what the government's actions have contributed. Have you noticed that in the provinces industry is investing at a huge rate? [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group] President! We are talking about the Nordic model of employment services. It is one of the government's actions: the government will reform the employment services to support quick access to employment and re-employment. In addition, the government wants the reform to moderate the system of sanctions for unemployment security so that rights and obligations are balanced — rights and obligations are balanced. These sanctions, such as carnage, have been considered unreasonable today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u197	Congressman Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u198	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Rante for raising these opportunities in the fight against climate change, including in employment. If we succeed well and are pioneers, then we will also have the employment potential of exports. There are several studies on how it employs indirectly. [MariBantasy Call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u199	Congressman Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u200	Mr President! There was such a commendable speech here about trick job creation that I thought at first that the Magician It's Luttinen, but it was Kuhmo's representative, Kettunen. In any case, Mr Hopsu has also made a good point here about the impact of poverty, and it is good to continue with the next one. In other words, when it comes to employment, it should also be possible for people simply to get to work first. And the President of the Greens, Finland, has stated: ‘The more money a person has,the more money he has on a car. “ He has continued to live: “Many of the poorest do not belong Could Mr Kettunen answer this when you have a uniform line that how do you get to work in Kuhmo without a car?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u201	Congressman Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u202	Mr President! I will not delay this debate any further, but first of all Mr Kettunen said that the rights and obligations of this proposal are balanced. But I would like to return to my first speech where I said that this proposal suggests that, for example, the illiterate do not have to apply for a job. In my opinion, there is no limit to it in this proposal, and as indicated in the previous debate on the Finnish language, we have no obligation to study the Finnish language. We have no incentive, no restriction on the use of interpreters, among other things. So do you think this will be balanced if we can stay in Finland and say over and over again that I am studying reading and writing? I would hope that these rights and obligations and their balance will indeed be taken into account in the deliberations of the committee on this law. And as far as Mr Hopsun is concerned, when we find the right measure, employment is progressing, I would think in some way that when we find a job, that employment is progressing. And that must be at the heart of this, not of their various procedures and service processes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u203	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u204	Mr President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has prepared a draft amendment to the Procurement Act amending the transitional provision of affiliated entities operating in the social and health services sector. The amendment provides for an extension of the transitional period of one year for the percentage of eligible exits of affiliated entities operating in the social and health services sector under Article 174 of the Procurement Act, with a transitional period ending on 31 December 2022. The proposal safeguards the implementation of the reform of welfare areas in such a way that the measures to adapt the business resulting from the end of the transitional period for affiliated entities operating in the social and health services sector under Article 15 of the Procurement Act are not disproportionate to contracting entities and their affiliated entities. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 22. In this context, I would also like to say that the entries in the Government Programme on the procurement law are in separate preparation at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the related proposals will be brought to Parliament later, estimated at the beginning of 22. So this proposal is now urgent about this part of social welfare and health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u205	Conversation. — The debate is closed. The matter will be sent to the Economic Committee... - Oh, let's take a little back. Was it true that Mr Lindén has the floor there? — All right, Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u206	Madam President! Sorry — I pressed the button on time, but there seemed to be a slight delay. In this context, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the further reform of this procurement law, it is very important that public entities, for example, should be placed in a position where the neutrality of competition is currently limited by the fact that it is said that private purchases from public bodies are very narrow. I would like to take, for example, the large HUS laboratory, which produces laboratory services around half of the unit price, i.e. the cost price, as is currently the case in the open sector, for example, the prices of laboratories. However, it shall be limited to 5 % or not more than EUR 500000. And in this case, when it comes to a large unit, the EUR 500000 comes very quickly. Similarly, from a small locality, I would like to mention an industrial town called Uusikaupunki. There is a situation there, or at least a moment ago, where private occupational health care does not have its own imaging unit. And then when you should use the public, i.e. in this case the public imaging of the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi, then the same way here comes against this kind of boundary. In fact, customers will then be sent many tens of miles away simply because they cannot use the public-owned unit in a commercial sense. In other words, it is precisely these supply limits which are subject to competitive neutrality. This is something I believe to be in the process of further preparation. In fact, the EU directive offers less scope for this than is currently the case in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u207	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u208	Thank you, Madam President. These public procurements have come to light, and especially now that the war comes into force, they will have quite a big impact, because there are a huge number of contracts, hundreds and thousands of contracts, which are going to be re-evaluated and changed, and even competitions are being greatly affected. In this respect, these public procurements will then come to a new thought, and it will require a great deal of knowledge, procurement skills. It is needed in municipalities, it is needed in health care districts and especially in these well-being areas, and it can be in such a way that when competitive tendering is carried out, then necessarily the benefit of the welfare area is not the same as the interests of the municipality or the interests of the health care district, so that it really requires a lot of this kind of legal expertise. I don't know if we've been prepared for that, but I feel like we've been talking too little about this. It affects local companies too, and especially if the competitions and others are carried out in terribly large entities and are not broken down, it may be that local entrepreneurs do not have access to these competitions at all. I think it is quite important to invest in public procurement, and it is important that even small entrepreneurs are always able to take part in such competitions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u209	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u210	Mr President! Although this is a question of extending the time limit for concessions until the end of the year, it was good to hear what the Minister said there, that there are still those legislative reforms that are actually in preparation for public procurement. Mrs Lindén rightly pointed out that, when this procurement law was discussed here in Parliament last season, it was made more stringent than would have been the case with the directive. I recall that the limit would have been whether there were as much as 750, while now the limit set in Finland is 500. In that sense, I think that Finland does not even use all the flexibility that is possible under EU regulation when it is made more stringent than national legislation. But on the other hand, I am also concerned that, in this future welfare area model, those small regional players will actually have the opportunity to be there as providers in the future, and, if you look at these different types of service providers involved in social services, it is now almost the same that they fear that there will be no possibility — not so much these public services, but rather the other side. These small service providers — which then often provide women-dominated jobs in those small areas — and their future role in this welfare area may now be what it is worth doing in drafting the law, when public procurement is being carried forward and making changes, pays particular attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u211	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.— Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u212	Mr President! In this proposal, it is proposed to amend the Chemicals Safety Act, the Mining Act and the Nuclear Energy Act to complement national provisions to EU legislation. Following a formal comment from the Commission, references to the provisions of the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure Act concerning the international consultation procedure would be added to the laws. It is also proposed to amend the Chemicals Safety Act to clarify the provisions on permit projects, specifications, notification of authorisation and appeal that require an environmental impact assessment procedure in line with EU legislation. The amendment would increase the right of appeal to organisations and municipalities for the storage and handling permits granted under the Chemical Safety Act. The law would include the power to adopt a regulation by decree of the Government to provide for a more precise content and information of the permit decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u213	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Lintilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u214	Madam President! Ensuring security of supply at all times is an important part of energy policy. Homes must warm up and factories machinery must go when needed. Energy security is based on a functioning energy market, a long-term and clear investment-friendly energy policy and energy efficiency. Security of supply must be based on a wide range of energy sources, reliable and distributed energy production and on secure transmission and distribution systems. A significant part of our energy supply depends on imports. In the event of an import-based energy supply disruption and in order to meet international contractual obligations, Finland maintains a quantity corresponding to the five-month normal consumption of imported fuels. Stocks are part of the security stocks of the Emergency Supply Agency and are partly based on the Act on Obligation Storage of Import Fuels, which provides for the obligation to store oil, coal and natural gas. Of course, our big goal is to get rid of fossil fuels. Increasing our own domestic renewable and emission-free energy production also strengthens our security of supply. In the current circumstances, however, we must also be prepared for the storage of oil, coal and natural gas. The proposal now submitted to Parliament concerns the amendment of the law on compulsory storage of imported fuels, which updates the current system in particular to reflect changes in the gas market. Mr President! The current law was adopted at a time when imports of natural gas were a monopoly of one company and the gas market was a national one. The aim of the proposal is to adapt the regulation on the obligation to store natural gas to the opening-up of gas markets. The transfer and sale business of the Monopoly company Gasum Oy has been separated, and Gasgrid Finland Oy is currently responsible for the transport of gas in Finland. Imports of natural gas are no longer solely dependent on gas imported from Russia via the gas pipeline, but also from the Balticconnector pipeline, and LNG terminals are located in Pori, Tornio and Hamina. According to the proposal, the obligation to store natural gas would be imposed on natural gas installations, which would be defined in the light of the Gas Market Act. The limited annual supply volume of a natural gas plant would no longer exempt storage. The share of natural gas importers in the storage obligation would be transferred to natural gas plants. The aim of the proposal is also to harmonise the integration of imported fuel used for industrial production in the storage obligation. Coal storage obligations would no longer include coal used for industrial production. The obligation to store coal, oil and natural gas would apply to new operators and to those who have established their activities to the same extent. In addition, the powers to adopt the regulation would be updated, the law would include a provision on civil liability and the introduction of an appeal procedure as a first step appeal. Mr President! The objective of these changes is also to maintain good security of supply for imported fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u215	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u216	Madam President! We are now dealing with the reserve of obligations. It would also be essential for security of supply to ensure self-sufficiency in energy production. Finland is unduly dependent on imported energy. Of course, we cannot count much on domestic oil production or such, because there is no such thing, but of course peat would also have been one interesting thing. We are about to face an energy crisis which has already brought about a 25% increase in electricity bills, in terms of taste and wild forecasts. Does the government understand the life of an ordinary person anymore? Helping people from the climate or other countries is not enough. At this rate, we will soon have to declare the emergency of the ordinary person — the emergency of the ordinary person. People will soon no longer survive normal life when the cost of energy and travel seems to be rising and rising.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u217	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u218	Mr President! Now that the minister is here and you have presented this government proposal with merit, I am curious to know how you are currently assessing the situation in Finland from the point of view of obligation storage in relation to fuels and in general. This applies now to imported fuels, but, as we have seen in general, now that this pandemic, for example, has put us almost to our knees, and then when you think that there can be some such cyber attacks or something else, we are in a very changed world and we are moving towards more change. So I ask about interest — when I know that you are the Minister for Energy — because it is true that quite often, if we talk about cyber attacks, we talk about biological weapons and a great many: What, then, if they do touch us, how, for example, if we do not have fuel? Then we'll be in real trouble. How do you assess the situation in Finland at the moment, and if you could decide on your own what you would do?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u219	Minister Lintilä, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u220	Madam President! Just as Mr Risikko said, this is precisely the law on imported fuels, not domestic fuels, and I can say that peat has a very important role to play in security of supply now and in the future, and that will continue. But this law applies to imported fuels. These are two completely different laws, which is why I did not take a stand. On this question by Mr Risiko: we are currently in the process of drafting a law on these stocks and their replacement price in terms of security of supply, and then, on the other hand, I have instructed the Energy Department and the Energy Agency to carry out immediate monitoring now, which is the current situation and then look at the winter. In addition, of course, we have the normal preparation of security of supply stocks, and then the Agency of Supply belongs to Minister Haatainen's Rootel again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u221	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Now that the Minister has pointed out the importance of this peat now and in the future that it is very important, can you, in concrete terms, tell us what it means? When you think about this last year and the debate that has taken place over the last few years, I think that peat and peat producers have been criticised and said that peat needs to be disposed of and that it is not a renewable resource, even though I think we have less than one per cent of peat use. So tell me, then, what does this mean to ensure that peat production can be considered and used as a bedding? So when this is the idea of the Greens that it should be completely eliminated, how do you make sure that this will not be the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u223	I will continue to say that this is a question of the storage of imported fuels, but Minister Lintilä will be kind enough to respond. - Here's about a minute for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u224	Mr President! I am happy to say: Yes, peat must continue to be a security of supply perspective, as has been said all along. What that means in practice, and you know it well, Mr Meri, is that we do not disclose the quantities we have in terms of security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u227	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the report SiVM 9/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u228	Mr President! This is therefore a government proposal to the Parliament for a law amending Article 10 of the Freedom of Culture Act and, as chairman of the committee, I will therefore present the report. The draft law proposes that the state funding of education approved in the integration plan for immigrants should be separated into a separate entity within the financing system for liberal education work. The committee considers that a proposal from the government is necessary and appropriate and proposes the adoption of a legislative proposal with a technical amendment modified. Article 9 of the Law on Free Cultural Work provides for the amount of State participation. According to the first paragraph of the Act, a central government contribution of 57 per cent is granted to the administrator of the National College, the Adult Education Centre and the Summer University and 65 per cent of the imputed basis for the central government contribution. According to the provision, the administrator of a folk high school, a student centre, a community college or a summer university is granted a 100 % central government contribution in the case of training for immigrants approved in the student integration plan referred to in Article 1386/2010 of the Act on the Promotion of Integration11 or in the case of education within the meaning of Article 1214/20205(2) of the compulsory education law. The educational institutions of liberal education have long experience in implementing education that meets the needs of immigrants. In line with the integration plan for liberal education, the educational model has diversified the study opportunities of immigrants' literacy skills and has contributed to supporting immigrants' pathways to education or working life, i.e. creating opportunities to become attached to Finnish society. The main content of the training is the studies of literacy and Finnish or Swedish skills and other content in accordance with the objectives of the Act on the Promotion of Integration. The committee notes that sufficient language skills create the conditions for smooth progress on the educational path. The education approved in the immigrant integration plan is now included in the financial system for liberal education. Thus, the number of successful outcomes of education and training for immigrants, organised by liberal education, is interlinked. If the amount of performance established per year for the educational institution is exceeded, only the amount of performance established in the financing of the educational institution shall be taken into account. In this case, performance cuts due to overshooting of performances will be proportionate to all training organised by the educational institution. In the future, when the funding of education for immigrants becomes a separate entity, the dependence of this education on other forms of education in liberal education will be eliminated. The amendment clarifies the financial system for liberal education and must therefore be supported. According to the calculations, a total of EUR 11.8 million of central government co-financing is required to form the funding of training approved in the integration plan for immigrants, so that the number of outputs allocated to this training is not reduced. In the budgetary plan for the period 22-25, EUR 5 million will be added annually to the integration training for immigrants in liberal education. The amount of funding for training approved in the integration plan for immigrants amounts to EUR 11.83 million, while EUR 5 million is added to the EUR 5 million available for this training and nearly EUR 2 million will be transferred to the central government system on state grants, i.e. the student voucher grant for the youth guarantee for immigrants. According to the Government's proposal, with the changes, the funding of integration training for immigrants amounts to around 4,000 students per year in a comprehensive manner. The Committee on Education notes that the proposed changes will improve the predictability of the activities and funding of the educational institution for liberal education and will enable the long-term provision of education to be designed also for other educational institutions for liberal education. The committee believes that the additional funding will make it possible to finance the full amount of education and training. However, despite the additions made, the appropriation for integration training for immigrants is still limited. The expert consultation has highlighted, for example, problems with the unit cost of UMAKO training organised by adult education centres and, more generally, the view that the allocation for training approved in the integration plan is still insufficient to meet all training needs. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it important to monitor and assess the adequacy of the funding of training approved in the integration plan in the coming years. The present proposal concerns the financing of training approved in the integration plan for immigrants. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it important that the training needs of immigrants who have exceeded the integration period are also met and that they can be guaranteed access to training to promote integration. The committee also believes that the consolidation and adequacy of the funding of education and training for immigrants not covered by the integration plan should be assessed on an ongoing basis. In conclusion, the Committee notes that the effectiveness of integration training needs to be monitored and evaluated regularly and that the necessary measures need to be taken on the basis of the evaluation. And then the one amendment we made. In the detailed explanatory memorandum, we state that Article 10 of the proposed Article 10 — fixing the number of supplies to be used for the calculation of the State contribution — is therefore titled as follows: It contains a provision that ‘the Ministry of Education and Cultureconfirms,on an annual basis,the number of weeks of students’weeks of study and teaching hours that have been mentioned When Article 9(5) provides for education provided for by folk high schools and when students' weeks of education and not classes are used in folk high schools, the Committee on Education proposes that the reference to teaching hours be deleted from the regulation, and that is indeed what we did. So, here we go. There was one objection here, but it was well thought that integration training needed money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u229	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Kinnunen, please. Congressman Kinnunen is gone. The general debate is closed...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u230	Mr President! Thank you for noticing. Just as I speak, I want this because that was the presentation of the report. I would just like to say that we had a very good debate on this integration training, and we also had a debate on the importance of language skills, for example, for integration. We came to the conclusion that it is of enormous importance, and we also stated in our report that it creates the conditions for further progress on the school path, that it should acquire its language skills as quickly as possible, Finnish language skills. But it is not quite simple, of course, and that is why, of course, we encourage the availability of language training, either Finnish or Swedish, and that immigrants can then take part in it as soon as possible. In most cases, learning language skills is the best way to do it when dealing with people who speak the language they want to learn, especially at work or, for example, in various interactions, hobbies where you can learn the language, while, of course, there are also these formal programs, which are worth participating in. It is great that Finland also offers this language training in connection with integration training, which, in my opinion, is a very long-term prerequisite for understanding Finnish culture and knowing how to work here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u231	Thank you. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u232	Mr President! I can't wait to get away with this language study. It is clear that if you do not learn the language in the land, you will not learn to live in the land the way the earth does. However, we have a slight contradiction here when we go to the municipal level with regard to the requirements for teaching and learning these languages. In practice, we can use an interpreter at least in Vantaa until the end of the world without learning the language when dealing with the authorities. Such a service with this kind of spike open to the use of an interpreter in practice indefinitely, does not lead to the fact that there is a desire to learn the language, and if you do not want to learn the language and the need to learn the language, then it is quite clear that those Finnish cultural and other ways will not be adopted. This also adds to what we are trying to do at municipal level, i.e. segregation. We have found, at least in Vantaa, that segregation takes place precisely in such a way that groups of people in the same language are happy to move to the same town rental house and form such suburbs that do not need to speak the same language as one, which unfortunately is not necessarily Finnish. Now, at the level of the state, I think we should move forward in such a way that we should give the municipalities such incentives, that is to say, in English we should not give them money to organise these language interpreters other than for a certain period of time to be able to put them in order. I believe that this would encourage language learning much better than many other measures. In addition, the best prevention against segregation is that we do not allow, for example, one group of people to move into the same house, as we do in Vantaa with a house that can have 80 apartments and often want to fill a house with people of the same language. We have made such a principle policy in Vantaa that rental apartments, rental houses would no longer be allowed to create such concentrations, which creates such areas, which have no need to learn the language. Is it not good for children too that when you go into a sandbox, you can hear Finnish and learn Finnish already through it? Such a development would be supported by the government on a larger scale. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u233	Thank you. — And Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u234	Thank you, Mr President. This seems to have allowed a small integration debate. After all, we had a somewhat broader debate here a few weeks ago in Parliament. This debate is marked by the fact that Finnish society is so easily guilty of our failure and lack of services. Even if there are services in every peninsula, if a person is not motivated or is not required to do so, then he will not learn and may not want to learn. With regard to these municipal services, as basic Finns, we have made many suggestions in Hyvinkää, among others, that tax money should no longer be used to teach people their own native language. Yes, the focus should now be on tax revenue to learn Finnish and not the language that is perhaps the most pleasant and close to yourself. In addition, we should be able to provide interpretation services for some time and then it is there, and more interpreters can be obtained from our own resources. I would like to take the example of going to Italy, France or the United States now: I do not receive any interpreting services there, or any other special services, but I am required to come to work there and take care of myself and, if I cannot manage, I should return to my country. We should anyway have a debate on how we would have temporary asylum decisions, and our citizenship conditions should be linked to language skills and so on. We need to move on to more binding legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u235	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 6/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Park, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u236	Thank you, Mr President. This matter was briefly discussed in the referral debate and I took the floor. At the time, the Minister was there, and I thought that I would now add my point of view to this, because I think that Singapore may well grow in importance in the future and that there are also very interesting developments in this area. After all, the region has developed very strongly for decades and already has hundreds of millions of consumers in South-East Asia. Technology has developed, and for a long time there has been a great deal of manufacturing, especially in and around the Helm River in Southeast Asia. Singapore's position is interesting in that traditionally there have been two similar cities that have competed for the main hubs in this area, as it were in the main bridge. It has had Singapore on the one hand and Hong Kong's Special Administrative Region on the other, and both have long been logistics centres, the largest ports in the world, financial centres, and have produced a lot of service business and have also been technologically well-developed. They are also about the same size — Singapore is less than 1,000 square kilometres and Hong Kong is somewhat above it — and each has a similar history from the 19th century. But now that you think about it, I hope you can get out of the pandemic, at least the worst of its stages, and at the same time, a lot is happening technologically. So both places have invested very heavily in technology, such as digitalisation and biotechnology, perhaps there are different breakthroughs, but now, for example, in the situation in Hong Kong, there has also been a lot of different political turmoil. And then the question arises as to what effect all this and what competition between these regions will have on regulation. There are many other cities, such as Shanghai and Busan in South Korea. These are not the only two places, but in a way they have been rivals of each other. And now I think that the importance of Singapore can be highlighted here. Now 2021, when measured by the Index of Economic Freedom — that is, how free the regions are — Singapore was, among other things, number one here. Singapore has now invested very much in a different fintech and has taken advantage of it, and here you should be quite awake. I would like to finish by drawing attention, for example, to these smart city projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u237	Thank you. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u238	Mr President! There was no need to make a presentation on this at first, but I would like to raise a few points about this now, so that this partnership and cooperation agreement between Singapore and the EU and the Member States becomes the right image for all those outside who are interested in this issue. The reason why Finland enters into such agreements or agrees with these EU agreements is simply because such bilateral agreements benefit Finland as much as the whole of the EU. We must remember that Singapore is a very important commercial partner for Finland. In 2020 we had exports to Singapore worth EUR 200 million and imports to Finland amounted to EUR 114 million. This agreement aims to increase this cooperation more at EU level and also at Finland level. Singapore and I have a lot of things that are important to us Europeans. As an example of this in terms of security cooperation: we will intensify it and contribute to the internal security of both sides. This also means that there are agreements here on immigration and free movement, which aim to prevent illegal immigration both towards Europe and towards Singapore. In addition, it aims to act in the field of terrorism and organised crime in such a way as to combat these measures through joint projects, and there are also a number of common objectives to be achieved on arms control issues. I would also like to point out that we have not only this fight against organised crime but also the fight against the impunity of serious crimes and the cooperation projects on drugs that we need to promote. Last but not least, this will help us to increase trade between the European Union and Singapore, and it will help to support their conditions in order to strengthen the multi-centre trading system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u239	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u240	Mr President! I know that there are certainly many more people travelling in Parliament than I am, and there is no personal travel report here, but here I thank Mrs Park and Mrs Niikka for their good speeches. It turned out that just before this corona pandemic started — it is my previous foreign trip, which I have made, and of course it is a civilian at my own expense — it was a ten-day trip to Singapore in January 2020. I had been quite careful to prepare for this journey and also, through my previous work, arranged for two visits to top hospitals there and a meeting with a representative of the Ministry of Health, when I went over the previous profession and, in due course, the current work. Of course, I have to say that there was no surprise in itself, but it was impressive when you actually saw what you had read earlier. In other words, just as Mr Park has said here, the very dynamic system of Singapore, which in a certain way combines a kind of equality at a certain level and then, at the same time, a very strong degree of competition and enterprise, produces results which are reflected in a very high national income and yet a relatively even distribution. And among other things, when I just told you about hospital systems, just like this in international comparisons, in some of them, Singapore's health care system has been penalised for the most effective results in the world: the life expectancy is well over 80, I think it's 85, and it's obtained by a relatively low share of GDP — I think there's something between 4 and 5% of GDP in health care, when even in Finland, where it is relatively low in European terms, it's 9.5 percentage points. So I think the interaction is really important. Of course, we also know the shortcomings of this system in a certain way — if that can be said — and it is, of course, largely during their own history and then also during the Second World War a very strong occupation period, which they had to experience there by the Japanese... But I would point out, for example, that in their 60-member parliament there are five representatives of the opposition party. The electoral system is such that in this 5 million population, where the proportion of migrant workers is quite high, more than one million, there are ten constituencies in which a list is held. In other words, the ten constituencies will then be elected, for example, six people, when the party that is the largest in it will have all six seats, and this has led to, for example, only one constituency then the opposition being greater than the dominant party which has largely created and led this system. But all in all, I think it is important that these contacts are maintained, and we have quite a lot to learn from them, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u241	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate and discussion were suspended at the plenary session on 8 October 2021. The debate will continue. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u242	Mr President! On Friday, we had a debate on this government proposal to amend the Employment Pensions Act and the National Pensions Act. It turned out that, unfortunately, this bill also reduces the entitlement to a widow’s pension. This is a proposal from the government to limit the widow's pension to ten years, and this is worrying. I believe, however, that if the government has good will, the government will want to ensure that the situation of those who receive a widow's pension whose benefits are being undermined does not deteriorate. On Friday, when the debate was about to take place, it was going to be Vanhusten Week, and the purpose of the Vanhusten Week is to focus attention on ageing and the various challenges it faces, such as economic activity and economic survival. As a result, in order to ensure that the benefits of widows' pensioners do not actually deteriorate sufficiently to increase pensioner poverty, I would like to make the following statement, which I hope will also be shared by the members of the government. More or less the same idea can be found directly in the report. This statement would be worded as follows: ‘The Commissionrequires that thereform’simpact on the development ofpovertyis monitoredin a different part of the fixed-termretirementpension. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u243	Thank you. — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u244	Honorable Speaker! Yes, yes, yes, last week was senior seniors' week. Pensioner poverty must not increase in Finland, and of course there is a threat that government action and general wage developments, inflation and, among other things, higher prices of electricity and heat will weaken the purchasing power of pensioners. I would therefore like to support the statement made by Mr Niiko. Now, last week we also had an oral Question Time to discuss how they in other countries, including Italy and Spain, support their citizens' electricity bills and help to contribute to these costs. And then, last week, there was not a very clear answer to the fact that in Finland, is Finland supported by the Recovery and Recovery Support Facility for pensioners and low incomes and their growing electricity bills, and if not, why not? So that this pensioner poverty is a serious issue, which should receive attention every week, not just at the Old Age Week. I would like some kind of debate on this. Is there anyone in the government parties who can answer this question about the recovery and recovery support instrument?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u245	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-113.u246	Mr President! I did not think about answering this question by Vähämäki, but I would draw attention to the fact that, when this same law was at first reading, there was also a small-scale discussion, a rather lively debate. Even then, I said that this proposal was a typical one, which was in the trialogue and was then accepted by the parties. In the future, this will be accompanied by a weakening of the status of young widows compared to what it has been in the past, but on the other hand it will also include new improvements in the status of orphans, for example, and some others. So, as a whole, this is not a deterioration of the law under any circumstances. It would hardly have been accepted as such by the social partners, at least not by the employee side. Now I am not going to enter into this debate on the recovery instrument in this context.
