ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance, i.e. no later than 1 November 2021. The debate and proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 30 February.021 In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the 4th to 22th agenda. on the subject. The debate will continue. — — — — Mr Blomqvist, please give a presentation for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! Finland will chair the Nordic Council of Ministers this year. During this year, Finland has promoted the Nordic vision of Nordic cooperation that the Nordic Region will become the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u3	Mr President! Thank you very much for this clear proposal by the Minister. When I know that you are both Minister for Nordic Cooperation and Minister for Gender Equality, there are a few questions about these two issues: On gender issues, especially when gender impact assessment is what needs to be done in all laws. Have you made any changes in that area during this period of your own? So how do you assess this so-called tolerance at the moment? Then these border barriers and cooperation in the Nordic countries in general. What has been done about security? There's a lot of gangbanging in Sweden. What about health services? Have you worked together to move from the north to the Nordic countries for health care? And then on the asylum system: Finland is undergoing an amendment to the Aliens Act, which has the most liberal family reunification model in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u4	Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u8	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u9	Mr President! The Nordic countries are Finland's most important partner in the European Union, especially when it comes to security issues and stability, for example, what is being sought for Europe, for example, in the Arctic region, where there will be fierce competition for these natural resources in the future, and it can also cause instability here in the Nordic countries. I would have asked, Ministers: how can we contribute to this stability and environmental development in the Arctic and its geopolitical cooperation, and make Russia, for example, work in favour of all other countries there? After all, Finland will have a presidency in this area next year. In what way can we, in a way, make use of that presidency in all these areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u10	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u11	Madam President! We have talked here before about the impact of corona on Nordic cooperation, and that may have revealed some rather fragile points: all of them The Nordic countries operate at a slightly different time and also in different strategic ways with the interest rate. On the other hand, we always say that we want to be the most integrated region in the world and intensify cooperation, but then in practical life, at least in this crisis, it did not work at all at the same pace. Of course, for people in the Nordic border regions in particular, that world will continue in exactly the same way across its national border, where they are at school and working, so it should always be possible to detect it. The bigger problem is perhaps the weak links between the substance ministries in the different Nordic countries, rather than the weak links between the Nordic ministers. What, then, is it that, as a learner of this difficult period of a few years, we really can be the most integrated region in the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u12	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u13	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his active work on promoting equality. The results of the recent school health survey on girls’ harassment and the prevalence of harassment are quite halting. We are in the government reforming the legislation on sexual offences in order to improve the status of victims and strengthen the integrity of everyone. This work is in the middle of the Ministry of Justice, and that is good, but it is clear that a simple change of law will not help if the attitudes of society remain the same. Sexual delinquency is only part of this phenomenon, including sexualism, harassment, harassment in society. Active action is needed to eradicate these from all aspects of society. Thank you to the ministers for raising this issue and bringing together the various actors in society to discuss it — I understand that you have also organised such a round table with Minister Sarkkinen on the subject. I'd love to hear what kind of solutions there are.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u14	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u15	Mr President, Mr Basta Talman! This government has promoted gender equality on many fronts, and many equality actors have also put their hopes in this government. There are many things that have been promoted, but many important things remain to be done. There is, for example, the reform of the transfiguration, which is still waiting. Similarly, women's organisations pointed out how the lack of pregnancy discrimination and the related legislation continue to be blocked and not progressed. I myself, as a Member of Parliament for the first term, have perhaps also been a little confused about how difficult it is to prepare legislation for equality of opportunity, and I see that it should definitely be strengthened. I would like to ask the minister about the Nordic Council: what about this cultural budget? They have proposed huge cuts for the whole cultural and educational sector. If you could just open that up a little bit more. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u16	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u17	Herr Talman! Vi vet alla att coronan har drabbat män och kvinnor och oliika grupper i samhället på lite jätt och att kvinnor harvarit särskilt utsata när det gäller att ha strabbats av brissten på sysselsättning — på grund av att kvinnorna finns valdigt ofta inom service sectorn. Jag skulle gärna grain höra om det finns några tankar om hur man skulle kunna reparera eller, ska vi säga, balansera upp de ruus könsskilda effekterna av det är och lassaså av återhämningspaklet eller den ekonomiska politiken, och det kräver naturligtvis att man skulle göra en sådan iuri “suvaus”,en “s gender impact assessment”avdet. Den andra frågan, som är viktig i Jämställdhet och som är stor, gäller naturligtvis famileledighetsreformen som naturligtvis är historisk men som ämtar förbättring för Jämställdhet bara om männen, papporna, verkligen Värjer att ändra på sitt beteende [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u20	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u21	Madam President! I would have liked to ask you first of all, in relation to your Nordic cooperation minister's portfolio, about these border barriers, what is there in that representative? I even brought up my eyebrows. It is precisely this corona age that has caused problems in everyday life. Are there any plans now to better prepare for the types of situations that will have to be dealt with in such exceptional situations and, however, where there may be different regulations going on in different countries, to make life easier for people living in the border area? And then: is there still a lot of questions about these Swedish pensions and their taxation and associated social security contributions for citizens? Then I would have asked about this in your equality portfolio: unfortunately, the Korona era has increased a lot of home alarms, and there is also a lot of domestic violence. Is there some kind of statistics on these already? Violence against women is also in the corona era
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u22	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u23	Madam President! When we discuss the administration of the Minister for Gender Equality, we cannot ignore today's day of civic engagement. Women’s Organization Today’s campaign “SunVuoro”,which challenges people to act in a more equal society. It would therefore not be possible to deal with Mr Blomqvist's administration at a better time. As far as the government's actions on gender equality are concerned, they are largely based on the Government's gender equality programme, and I think it is very important that this long-term and planned programming is the basis of the work in each ministry. You have to work for a more equal society every day. Here too, I would like to highlight the ongoing reform of family leave, which will also improve equality in the labour market. The role of reporting violence against women will be established from the beginning of the year, and that is a good thing. Minister, I am referring to the same thing as Mr Hyrkko. Sexual harassment is a major social problem and we have read that you and Minister Sarkkinen organised this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u24	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u25	Mr President! The government is now bringing the legislation on family leave to Parliament, and unfortunately there was still one significant weakening of the current state of affairs in the consultation, namely that if a child dies just before or after birth, the parental leave that could then be taken had fallen from the present state. Is this detail now corrected after the consultation, for we all understand that losing a child is perhaps the greatest sorrow that can affect us in life, and it is reasonable that it is also possible to have a sufficient amount of parental leave in that situation? Mr President! The reform of family leave involves not only a concrete change in the number of family leave but also a change in genuine behaviour, because we now know that, after having the first child, the wage level for mothers is permanently lower.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u26	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u27	Madam President! The stability and security of Northern Europe is one of the key issues. I know, Minister, that you are well acquainted with the defence sector — you were in the Committee on Defence during the last parliamentary term — and with the cooperation that is being done in that sector. But when your portfolio takes a broader view of this Nordic cooperation and when these shortcomings have also arisen here, for example, with regard to border security, I would like to ask: how, in your own role, with your colleagues, do you look at safety in the various sectors of the Nordic countries in terms of internal security, border security, cybersites, all those who have a major impact on our security? And I would encourage greater coordination between the Nordic countries. The better we are on the same lines on these issues, the safer we will be here in the north.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u28	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. In this debate, I would like to raise two important points which have actually been asked a little bit. After all, in the spring, the Nordic co-operation ministers decided to have a strategy report drawn up with concrete measures to strengthen this cooperation, Nordic co-operation, particularly in times of crisis. This is a very important concrete issue, with Jan-Erik Enestam as the liquidator. Furthermore, the Border Obstacles Council and the Border Obstacles Working Group have been working very actively throughout this period of corona to resolve these concrete obstacles at the borders that make it difficult for us to live daily, to work for our citizens and so on. They have therefore been dealt with on a grass-roots basis with local officials and authorities. The work continues, and it is very important and I would really like to see a little more understanding in this Chamber and emphasis on the fact that this Nordic cooperation is:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u30	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u31	Mr President! Indeed, one of the main problems of equality and human rights in this country is violence against women, as we have already heard in this Chamber today. One in three Finnish women has faced violence either by their current or former partner. At the same time, however, we know that much of this kind of violence remains a hidden crime. Violence against women is discrimination on the basis of sex, and no one should ever have to face any form of violence, not fear at home or outside its walls. Violence brings both human costs and suffering and economic consequences for society. It is important that this government is genuinely committed to combating violence against women and helping victims. It is a great thing that the government has just presented a proposal to establish a role for reporting violence against women, as Mrs Taimela referred to in her speech. The state has a duty to safeguard human rights and the security of its citizens. It is not enough to talk about them and say that Finland is an equal country. We need active action, and the budget is a key tool here. That's why I'd ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u32	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u33	Irade the Talman! This has nothing to do with the subject of Minister Blomqvist, but since Mr Risikko raised this issue of family reunification, it may also be appropriate to correct Mr Risiko's claim that the income requirement should be completely removed. This is not the case; it is being moderated. It has been unreasonable for a minor, for example, to have been required to do so. And in the current situation, for example, a parliamentary assistant could not, on a general level, initiate the process of family reunification.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u34	Mr President! The nations of the world continue to look with envy, with respect for the Nordic countries. In international welfare surveys, the Nordic countries are usually among the top ten countries. We have done well here in terms of social, educational, cultural and equal opportunities policies. I have drawn attention, Minister, to your good introduction to this forthcoming gender equality programme. Do you, as Minister, now have your own personal level of ambition as to what you consider important, or can you otherwise open up the work in preparation? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u35	And I am always concerned that we should stick to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u36	Mr President! Regrettably, the school health survey shows that harassment among young people has increased. I know that schools are doing a great deal to tackle this issue, but harassment is always linked to the culture of action. It is also a question of leadership, it is a matter of value, but I think that the core of the anti-harassment action is always, in the end, adulthood. So do we have time to interpret the signals that are happening to young people? Do we have the time and the will of our parents to ask how the young person is doing? I would therefore like the Minister to reflect on the responsibility of adult and parenthood for what is happening in relation to harassment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u37	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u38	Irade fru talman! Som det har framkommit auri så är ju de nordiska länderna våra närmste samarbetspartner, och det är glädjande att vi har en Consensus kring den är synen i salen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u39	Madam President! We haven't talked about equal pay yet, so I thought I'd check it out. The pay gap between women and men is a major and long-term problem of equality. Women's earnings are still lower than men's, even today. However, the gender gap in earnings varies by labour market sector by country, municipality and private sector. How is the government planning to improve this problem, and what is the situation in terms of wage equality? Then, in fact, the second question comes from the Arctic region inspired by Mr Nikon and where we are going to promote equality between indigenous peoples and improve their own voice, their own culture and their own influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u40	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u41	Madam President! Nordic cooperation is vital to us. We have a lot of common, valuable heritage, especially in the field of culture and culture. Thank you, Mr Blomqvist, for your commendable work in promoting all of this. Our shared vision of the Nordic Region is that the Nordic Region will become the most sustainable and integrated region in the world. There are still many obstacles to overcome on this road. Sustainability should be widely seen. Our vision of the priorities of education and culture was missed, and now there is a strong cut in the Council of Ministers' budget, although the Nordic Council meetings discussed strongly that culture and knowledge are just like other priorities in terms of content. It's culture that has helped the corona...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u42	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u43	Mr President! Minister, there has also been a recent study in relation to the gender equality portfolio that there has been too much sexual violence and sexual violence against women among foreign men.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u47	And at this point, I will give the Minister the floor. — Minister, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I’m trying to write down these good questions, what came up with so much. I don't think I can answer everyone in five minutes. A lot was asked about gender-conscious budgeting and gender impact assessment, including representatives of Risikko, Honkasalo and others. As I said, in this round of budgets, the Ministry of Finance has clarified its guidelines, and the ministries have succeeded better in their gender summaries, but this does not mean that there is still no development margin, quite the contrary. We have recognised the need to further develop both knowledge and skills to ensure that this gender impact assessment is at a better level than it is at present. The same applies to what Mr Biaudet at least asked about this tolerance, whether it will now be made when we return from the corona to normal conditions, and how this money will now be spent. Yes, that is what we in the government have decided to tolerate in this area too. In addition, THL also investigates the impact of the corona epidemic on intimate partner violence, which was also asked. We have noted that violence has increased during this crisis. In Finland, the police’s home alert missions rose in the autumn of 20 and also in the winter. The various forms of violence, including intimate violence, employ the police, and, for example, the police in south-west Finland said that the number of home alarm missions was as high as 40 per cent higher on Easter as last Easter. So there is a considerable difference here, and that is what we are, of course, trying to answer. Then I can also say, as far as shelters are concerned, that their number of customers has not increased in the same way, but we have also increased investments in shelters in the budget. Yes, and Mrs Filatov asked about this European recovery package. Yes, it is important to carry out these gender impact assessments and to see that they are targeted correctly. Then there were quite a few questions about sexual harassment. As has been said here, I held a round table with Mr Sarkkinen last week, in which the social partners were very much involved in discussing and considering how to prevent this and what measures we can take in the workplace and what government or government can do for its part. This is probably also quite a question of changing the culture of action, changing attitudes. Not a lot of shortcomings were identified — at least large ones — in the legislation. But these discussions are to continue. For my part, I am also convening a new round table in which perhaps the cultural sector, the sports sector and so on would be represented, because I believe that this will also enable us to influence attitudes. Then there is Nordic cooperation, which is now, unfortunately, a short period of time. That is where I think Mr Wranne said quite well what is being done. Enestam will carry out such a study, which will then be followed by 10 to 15 draft measures, how we can improve Nordic cooperation in the event of a new crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Work must also be done to achieve equality between men, even though it is not media sexy to talk about it. Without underestimating any misappropriations for women, I would like to draw a few examples for men. Military duty: does not apply to women. Immunity: you can't mutilate girls, you can have boys. Exclusion: a higher proportion of men. Intoxicant abuse: more common in men. Long-term unemployment: more common in men. Health: female breast cancer screenings are valid, male prostate cancer screenings are not, although cancer is more common. Parenthood: fathers have a weak position in divorce situations. Education: on average, the way girls learn is still better supported by teaching methods. Literacy: boys are weaker than girls. Housing: for men, homelessness is more common. Suicides: men are overrepresented. Now that we have our own Minister for Gender Equality in Finland, we must also take the problems of gender equality seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u51	Congressman Koponen Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u52	Mr President! The evaluation of the impact of children gave the budget a new important and desirable dimension to equality and equality. The allocation of funds and actions to children, young people and families with children tells a lot about the values of this and also the governments that follow, as well as the desire and choices to invest in the next generations. The estimated direct impact of this budget, EUR 7 billion, on children and families with children, is a good start, the development of which must be closely monitored. Although this is a first-stage piloting exercise, I would also like to draw attention to the ministerial implications that I myself missed. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you think the piloting of the impact assessment on children was going and how should it be further developed in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u53	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I have to take this. Mr Al-Taee has just pointed out here that some studies show that there is too much sexual violence against women in the case of foreign men. I would point out now that we are not going to generalise foreigners in this Chamber but that the fact is that certain third-country nationals are over-represented in the problems you mentioned — once and for all extraordinary. Then I would ask you again when you mentioned this ‘too much’:is there a valid amount? Zero tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u55	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u56	Mr President! This hall is too valuable for this type of debate. Personally, I would now like to address my question to the minister responsible for equality. What can be done to radically reduce and eliminate sexual violence against women and men within a certain period of time? That would be what this issue of security is about in the long term and what we must strive for with all our strength through this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u57	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u58	Irade the Talman! Mr Tynkkynen raised a list which is, to a large extent, quite relevant, and one can of course say that, in the light of the studies, in the event of resignation, the father's position is considerably better when he has also taken his or her share of parental leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u61	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u62	Mr President! In fact, there were many good questions here about this cooperation on security, and some clarifications would be desirable. Then the question is: does the Minister have any information on how much help has been needed in Sweden during this pandemic, for example, in intensive care patients? At the time of the previous pandemic, there was some cooperation, a need for it. And I thought that Mr Adlercreutz would then be opposed to my actual speech because he spoke the truth that has been changed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u63	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u64	Mr President! I would return to this gender equality and its promotion. It is not true that the inequality faced by men has not been addressed — many times it has been tackled, and it is an essential part of gender equality work. But I am concerned that gender equality is often an issue that remains the responsibility of women, who are promoted by women. We see it here in Parliament, we see it in many political arenas. And I'm worried about the fact that gender equality is seen as such a zero-sum game, i.e. so that if girls' rights are promoted, then it's out of the boys, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u67	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u68	Mr President! I would like to pay tribute to Mr Tynkkyse's speech, because his speech very closely listed these problems in relation to young men — and men — in this society. We should be particularly concerned about young men who are excluded from their homes. There are several thousand of them. No one knows how much, but we know that at some point we had as many as 50,000 young people, of whom we did not really know what they were doing. Of course, that figure has probably improved since the last parliamentary term from what this figure was, but we should do something about it. It is not enough for us to talk here; we should get these young men back into society, and there is still a lot of work to be done. But I would like to come back to this question because Finland holds the presidency of the Barents Euro-Arctic Council during the period 21-23 and next year in the Nordic Council: how could Finland use these in the work of the Arctic region? The importance of the Arctic region is growing,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u69	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u70	Mr President! I would also like the Minister to be able, in the next reply, to return to the issues of Nordic cooperation and, in particular, to these issues of security, as was the case with several contributions. With regard to Nordic cooperation, climate issues are the ones where the Nordic countries are the pioneers. I believe that these too will be dealt with quite strongly in the debates in which you are involved. I believe that in the future the Nordic countries will be the ones who will also provide food security throughout Europe. I would like to ask: are there any projects in connection with this climate change debate on your way? How to strengthen food self-sufficiency and energy self-sufficiency here in the Nordic countries together so that, even for the worst day, we can take more care of the food security of our own citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u71	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u72	Mr President! I also think that the fact that fathers share parental responsibility with mothers or that fathers take at least half of it will certainly improve their lives, so that equality is important to everyone in that sense. Now it was quite worrying news today in the YLE news that it is a case that the prosecutor is demanding punishment for the Chief of Staff of the crisis management team, who has called their female subordinates very harshly. We know from research that sexual harassment and harassment against sexual identity and sexual orientation are also too common in the Defence Forces and military service, for example. I was thinking that this could be the next round table for the Minister for Gender Equality, now with the Defence Forces, how they could really start thinking about how to manage and know how to deal with equality and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u73	I will give the floor to the representatives of Kinnunen and Lohikoski, followed by the Minister. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u74	Madam President! Like Mr Gustafsson, I am also concerned about the success of the boys in school and, in particular, about the fact that there are more boys among those with the weakest skills, which means that there is a high risk of exclusion. Of course, it must be borne in mind that the learning gap between boys has increased. Their troops are very diverse, too. It has also raised the point of view of boys and men, and I also believe that equality belongs to everyone and we have a lot to do. As a question, I would like to raise a slightly different issue: over-indebtedness. When someone is in debt, even in the middle of a corona, it is important to have support for not repeating the cycle. I need to learn more about financial skills in school. There has been a constraint on the take-up of quick levers, but clearly further action is also needed. I'd like to ask the Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u75	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I regret that this is not the beginning of this debate — I hope I am not asking exactly what others have asked. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I am interested in the gender impact assessment of economic policy. So, of course, the great thing about this is that family leave is being reformed, for example, and it certainly has an impact on gender equality. It's here in the budget, of course, a lot of other things. But now that we have this wonderful child budgeting in the budget book, in a way I would miss this gender impact assessment. I think that, of course, in future, it would be great to have a chapter on it here in the yellow book. How would you describe this? What about the impact of the corona crisis on gender equality from the perspective of economic policy? Are there any answers to our budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u77	Minister, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u78	Mr President! Thank you for a very good debate and good questions. I thought I'd fill in a little bit of the answer I gave you earlier. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, I agree with everyone that the Nordic countries are our main partners. And the goal is that the Nordic Region will become the most integrated region in the world and will require both cultural cooperation and investment in this sustainable development and green Nordic region. What Mr Niikko asked about this Arctic cooperation does not belong to the Nordic Council of Ministers, but is a matter for the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Minister. Of course, it is an important dimension in this Nordic cooperation, but since I am not the Minister of Responsibility, I shall now refrain from answering these questions which are important in themselves. I would also like to stress the good cooperation that we cooperation ministers have had with the Border Obstacle Council, where perhaps everyone knows Kimmo Sasi as chairman at the moment. The Border Barriers Council is doing a really good job. They identify these challenges and then address these problems as far as border barriers are concerned. Their activities are likely to be further developed, and there have also been discussions on this. Then about this preparedness cooperation, which is what a lot of people have asked about, including representatives of Risikko and Savola. It is the initiative of Finland now under our presidency, by Prime Minister Marin. And it is now being put on the line that we will be better equipped when the next crisis comes, and it will be further developed anyway, perhaps we will learn from the defence cooperation which is also very important but which is not my concern now or the Council of Ministers. But this is what is being invested in and, as Mr Savola said here, is what is being done in a cross-sectional way, and we are trying to involve all sectors in this cooperation. And then a few words about this Enestam report. We are trying to learn from this crisis that next time, however, we will probably be able to face a new crisis, a crisis of some kind, better together. And this will probably include these very things, which we do not have time for, and I am not responsible for them, because there are 12 different ministries in the Council of Ministers, including energy and food security. Now for equality. Men and equality: To give you a few examples, this raising of compulsory education to 18 years of age is such an act of equality that will certainly benefit young men, family leave reform is also important for fathers and we have a programme of halving homelessness on the side of the Ministry of Social Affairs and then, on the side of the Ministry of Social Affairs, a decision of principle on promoting the well-being, health and safety of the population. These are all issues that promote equality for men, and equality for men is, of course, equality, as is all other equality issues. And I think it is right to stress this very fact that equality benefits everyone and equality means equality, and it is in the interests of both men and women and of all of us to build an even more equal society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u79	Mr President! The Government's draft budget for the year 22 is hardly surprising for the government's toxic-green ideology-based activities and funding. There will be no tightening up in the fight against climate change and in the hugging of the world. Development cooperation is not compromised, although the draft budget is EUR 6.9 billion in deficit. This is once again covered with a brisk increase in debt. Central government debt is estimated at EUR 146 billion at the end of 22 years. The European Union's debt ceiling in relation to GDP seems to have been overshooting a few days ago, but the government does not care. And I do not believe that these billions of dollars of debt will even suffice for all the ideology that the government is about to share. Mr President! The structural imbalance between government expenditure and revenue will continue to grow and adjustment measures will not be agreed. The government does not admit that it has failed, among other things, in the employment objectives of its government programme, but is moving them forward every year. When it emerges that the 75% employment target is not being achieved, it will be conveniently postponed by a few years, beyond its own term of government. 60,000 additional employees can also easily be raised to 80,000 with the Government’s magic tricks, as time is given from 23 until the end of the decade — far away from the government program and from the responsibility of the current government. Dearly beloved, the carnival has returned to Arkadiamäki. This government transfers the objectives of its government programme to the next governments and uses as one of the means to do so the law changes over the period of the elections. Hard is the work of the next governments to correct these mega-class mistakes. Quote on the Government Programme: ‘The main objective of Prime Minister Marin’s economic policy is to This means ecologically and socially sustainable economic growth, high employment and sustainable public finances." The question arises as to which fiction the abovementioned economic policy record of the Government Programme and many others have been quoted, since it is so utopian in relation to the current situation. Mr Government, you have driven the Finnish ship firmly to the rocks, and it seems to be speeding up. Mr President! The goal of Finland’s international development cooperation is said to be the eradication of extreme poverty, the reduction of inequalities and the realisation of human rights. After all, Finland received a taste of this a month ago from Afghanistan. It is not enough that Finland has funded the country for decades, trained soldiers against the rise of extremist organisations — now it picks up the raisins by bringing thousands of people persecuted by the Taliban to help our country. The number of people to help doesn't come here by flying out. Where do you get the money for this madness? Once again from care for the elderly? I can't believe it. Although Finland has for decades blamed tens of billions of tax dollars from the backs of its citizens for various development cooperation projects, the results of these lofty projects have not been bothered to tell the people — whether they exist. On the basis of some studies, it is known that at least some of the money has gone to corruption, and this has been likely to undermine the democratic development of the recipient country. At worst, we have been involved in feeding the birth of civil wars, and it is not excluded that Finland has contributed to the rise of these extremist movements through the development aids it has funded. Finland has supported corruption. From the point of view of the legal security of democracy, it would be best for development cooperation to be completely abolished and for the taxpayer to decide for himself whether he wants his money to be spent elsewhere than in order to put domestic affairs in order. Mr President! The climate partnership is reflected in this budget in the administrative sectors of all ministries. There are no euros to be found to improve internal security or to correct health problems, but there are plenty of blanks for the hysteria that can be achieved, based on a purely ideological basis, and which is despising people's living conditions. And the estimated growth in GDP of 2.9 per cent for the year 22 does not mean anything as long as the government continues along its path and does not care about the welfare of its own people as much as a penny of wood. The police just announced that they're opening a conference.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u82	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u83	Madam President! I will focus on a number of key issues which are particularly present in my own region and which still need to be addressed in the context of this budget debate. First of all, we cannot fail to stress that this basic bus maintenance will continue to be invested in. EUR 300 million has been added to basic infrastructure management and will be needed. If we want to keep the wheels of this country running, it will require a functional infrastructure, a functional, renovated road system, so that both professional traffic and people can travel all over Finland. That is why, in fact, there are two key issues in this regard: I would like to remind you of the importance of cross-border connections. It is clear that each province wants them to function as connections to the capital region, and they mainly work and are being further improved, but it is equally important, at least as important, to be able to move seamlessly between the regional centres and the localities between them, and cross-border transport is a key issue here, both on the rail side and then on the road side. Currently, the development of the Vaasa-Säinäjoki-Jyväskylä corridor is under way and two studies are under way. The Regional Unions will carry out a project study throughout the contact point, i.e. on the nodes and the needs where we need to invest in in the coming years in order to make transport seamless. This involves both rail traffic and on-board traffic. And another project, which is under way, must be carried out through the Ely Centre of Central Finland via the Alavus-Jyväskylä traffic clearance specifically for road transport, and here the main bottleneck is this Myllymäki-Multia interval correction, which has been included in these need lists for a long time. These are also strongly promoted through budget initiatives by representatives of the Southern and Middle-Finnish Parliaments, and progress is also sought through planning appropriations. As far as rail transport is concerned, this purchase service agreement is under discussion between the Ministry of Transport and Communications and VR, and now we are looking for a very broad 9-year contract in this regard, and it is extremely important. If we want people to use public transport, then public transport must also run, and that is why the rail purchase service contract must be in force in the long term. Currently, there are equipment problems in the cross-border connections, especially on the Haapamäki track. These so-called rail buses work there, but when other railway sections can be electrified in Finland, there are conditions that this equipment can then be transferred to this connection. Of course, the long-term goal there too is electrification of the track, which is then a longer-term objective. And, of course, when freight and timber traffic also travel along these lines, key development projects include these constructions of timber terminals that are coming along the track. As far as this transport is concerned, I would like to highlight these changes in the use of fuel for transport, those opportunities, and also the positive aspects. This establishment of a biogas refuelling station network: After all, we now have legislation that allows us to lift up biogas projects in this country and give consumers the confidence that gas cars are being bought, but it requires its refuelling network, and this is what will be very heavily invested in the next few years: that we have a comprehensive gas station network, that we have biogas producers in this country and that is what we see as a sensible way. And especially if heavy traffic is to be driven away from fossil fuels, from imported energy, it requires biogas. This budget has a great deal of potential here on the road, infrastructure and transport side, and I am pleased about that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u84	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u85	Mr President! Here we are discussing the budget for next year, and we have had an excellent debate here this week. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we have already started a little discussion, although not quite yet, of course, hearings, but I am sure that one of the things that is going to happen to us will be the nausea and the learning debt of children and young people and the economic needs involved in reaching out. Research and development will certainly also be an important priority in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and the plight of the cultural and event sectors. But then yesterday the services of the elderly were discussed here, and yesterday's debate referred to a statement that had been made public this week, and here I would like to tell you what that was all about. It was therefore a network of senior service managers operating in Finland. Twenty-six leading experts and officials from all over Finland had given an emergency call to the public, and I personally believe that it cannot be ignored when we consider next year's budget. I'll take a couple of grips here. These network leaders state: ‘The organisation and implementation of the services of the elderly population is likely to result in a national crisis. Service providers and producers are threatened by a situation where legal obligations cannot be met.’ Here, the position also states: ‘The statutory size of staff has not brought any additional care staff to the labour market. In order to achieve this dimension, the staff available had to be secured primarily for round-the-clock services, and when there were insufficient staff available, the result has been a reduction in the number of service places and the formation of queues for round-the-clock services. In order to fulfil the statutory dimensioning obligation, staff have had to be transferred from home care to 24-hour services, thereby reducing the organisation of home care as a cornerstone of the service system.’ It is also stated that ‘In the context of the reform of the legislation on older services, a second stage is currently in preparation for the implementation of the services of housing and home-residence services such New statutory tasks have been planned for future welfare areas. Due to the availability of staff, no new obligations should be imposed.’ They also note the need for rapid action, for example: ‘In addition, the new sector, which is expected to be strengthened2023, will avoid the need for a staff and cost impact assessment of the combined impact of the already decided The results of the evaluation should be the subject of a broad-based debate before moving forward with the legislation in the second phase.” And they conclude: ‘Requirements must beimplementable at the time when they are set and implemented. This is not the case now.’ And this has been made public this week by the network of senior service managers. I only took a few points from here. You might want to read it all. But then we were just discussing a change in the foreign law. And what does that have to do with this debate? It has to do with the fact that if this amendment to the foreign law, which has now been the subject of statements — I hope, of course, that changes will be made — then it will indeed be... It can be said that there will be the most liberal family reunification model in any other country in Europe and there will be reports of those control countries. That is why I have just asked about the situation in Sweden. Why, then, is this now linked to this budget? It has to do with the fact that it has been estimated here that this would only apply to 200 people, and yet it is estimated that this is a much higher figure. There was a debate here just now about who is now being proposed to be removed from it. It is proposed to remove it entirely for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and those with refugee status. In the case of minors, Migri has not carried this out to this day, I checked that out. And these two groups are precisely the groups that are doing family reunification in particular. And then Article 36, to which Migri and, among other things, the supo have already given their opinion: it would increase the number of anchor children if it came in such a form. That is why I am concerned about this legislation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u86	On this point, when I look at this list of speakers, we now officially have 2.30 p.m. and it has been announced that it will be possible to continue at 3 p.m. But if we can get this list of speakers to go in such a way that it only goes a little over half past two, we can do it. This is what I want to tell you. I am not restricting your right to speak, but this is what I want to bring to the attention of you. — and Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u87	Mr President! The contact of the Ministry of Education and Culture with Finnish education, education, education, research, culture, science, art, sports, youth and sport is invaluable. In fact, it is everything that our society is or should be. That is why I am very serious about what is happening or is not happening in this sector. Finnish early childhood education is known to be caring and high-quality. For example, government action to reduce group sizes and early childhood education fees has been a humane policy. Quality and the continuation of gender equality work in 2022 is also an excellent thing. The undisputed foundation of Finnish teaching is comprehensive school. Comprehensive schools in practice solve the sustainability of our nation's civilised work. I would like to thank the government for not hammering, but strengthening the resources of primary schools. It is the only way, and I hope that this direction will be understood in the future. The post-care of Korona, student and student care and school dropout are big words to go towards. It is proposed to extend the budget of EUR 70 million for the recruitment of teachers and instructors in vocational education and training, as well as for support for teaching and guidance. I'll take pleasure in this. Vocational training is also a response to our labour shortages and whether we have enough handicrafts to repair my car or build my house. The financing of upper secondary school education will also increase with an index increase of 2.5 per cent. In addition, additional contributions to the implementation of upper secondary school reform, the increase in the number of students and the expansion of compulsory education will increase funding by around EUR 23 million. This is a good thing. High school is the crown jewel of our general education. President! Central government funding for universities and polytechnics also increases by 2.6 per cent with index revisions. Index increases are, of course, vital and, ultimately, minimum targets, as should be done. Higher education institutions increased starting positions by just under 10,000 in 2020. This year, the number of recipients of the starting point has continued to rise by a few thousand. It is also proposed to finance the recovery and recovery plan for the new starting points of higher education institutions with EUR 15 million. This is not a very wrong policy. The much-deserved and well-deserved funding of science will remain unchanged in 2022. Similarly, the exhibition model of cultural actors and the private copying credit are music to the ears. President! A word about exercise. I'd be lying if I said that I wasn't worried about the effects of physical activity and even Veikkaus' income loss. We are possessed in this society by an unfortunate culture of immobility, which costs too much through social and health spending. That is why a lasting and long-term agreement on a money-sharing model and level is urgently needed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u88	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u89	Mr President! We in the opposition are often accused of blaming the government for everything and not saying anything. So let's start with the compliments. During the corona crisis, the government managed to support businesses in such a way that the wave of bankruptcy was avoided and we still have companies that can succeed, grow and employ — thanks for that. Although the interest rate and, in part, the restrictions are still part of our daily lives, the economy is growing rapidly and, as a result, employment. Finland will be in debt next year to some EUR 7 billion over previous debt. This is already worrying in itself, as predicted, at the time of the fastest growth. However, it is even more worrying that, according to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, debt is not going down at all in the coming years or even in the longer term. The VM’s own latest economic review states: ‘Although labour and employment are growing at an early stage, long-termunemployment remains high at the same time, jobs are well-placed and skilled labour shortagesarerenewed as a factor limiting the growth of production. The labour force of the economy is under-utilised, and correcting the situation is one of the acute core issues of economic policy.” The Government is now seeking to address this by making some fixed-term investments and reforms, such as raising the income limits of student aid for a year. I hope that the increase in income limits will be substantial and will therefore also have an impact. The revenue thresholds should be increased by 50% and this increase made permanent. Another positive aspect is the increase in the household allowance for nursing and nursing work. However, this is also done as a temporary experiment and at the same time no improvement is being made in the overall reduction in household income at the beginning of the government term. The only easy way to continue to provide funding for the welfare society is to ensure that growth continues to grow more than is now predicted, even after 2023. Big changes are therefore needed to improve incentives for work, increase the number of workers and improve productivity. For example, the marginal taxation of labour reduces incentives to do work, and the reduction in income tax is something that we support in the assembly. However, I am not talking more about taxation. Mr President! In politics, I am most annoyed by questioning the motives of other parties, which leads to increasing confrontation. I don't think it's going to lead to anything good. At least in general it does not increase the capacity of any party to make so-called difficult decisions. I am very concerned about the direction we are going. The entire term of the Government has been made permanent and fixed-term expenditure increases and municipal tasks have been increased. At the same time, growth seems to decline as early as 2023. Now is the time to make the difficult decisions, and many of them would also have support in the opposition. Mr President! To this end, I would like to highlight the excellent editorial of today's Helsingin Sanomat. It will address Statistics Finland's latest population projection, which, if implemented, would be a development leading to the failure of the welfare state. The service relationship is spraining. Finland is approaching a situation where one employee per dependent pensioner or child is employed. This is an impossible situation. A direct quote from the editorial: ‘The public finances and Finnish pension scheme will have to be made available to The burden on working life will become a burden on the economy.” Perhaps the most valuable point in this article is that it is stated here that the aim of all parties is to defend the welfare state, and many parties designate this as their main objective. And contrary to what we often hear in this Chamber, I believe that this is the case. That is why it is now time for major reforms to strengthen international recruitment, for example, because without a great deal of new labour, we will not be able to turn the foundations of our national economy on a growing basis. I hope that the government will now use all its resources to address this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u90	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u91	Irade the Talman! Mr Multala had good points about how one should not be called into question in politics. That is essential. It is also hoped that the increase in the income limits of student income could be made permanent. Of course, in the big picture, the employment rate of 75% is in sight. That is a good thing, although some of the government's actions have not yet been decided, some have not yet entered the Chamber, which means that 78 % is quite possible. However, since Mr Risikko may have accidentally said that I was speaking a modified truth, I am obliged to return to this question of family reunification. The statement I had taken was Mr Risiko’s claim that the livelihood requirement would be completely abolished. That is not true. There will be changes. There will be limits, which Risikko partially opened from the speaker's room, although I believe the limit is a little more narrow. I assume that this claim that it would go away completely was an accident, as I assume, that the argument that I had spoken the modified truth after correcting this claim was also an accident, and this could probably be the case. Family reunification will be facilitated, that is a good thing, and I expect that proposal to be dealt with quickly here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u92	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u93	Thank you, Madam President. We have talked a lot about the harmful climate policy promoted by the government by the Finns. The term has become familiar to many at political level, but unfortunately it has also become familiar to many Finns at practical level. As a result of climate policy, Finnish companies and jobs are disappearing and moving to countries where the climate or the status of employees is ignored. The costs for Finns will increase as other countries thank. In the name of climate pose, you are prepared to undermine the well-being of Finns and, in addition to that, to accept pollution and the trampling of workers' rights, as long as it takes place outside our borders. However, climate issues do not know the boundaries between states. From a climate point of view, it is irrelevant in which country emissions are generated. However, Finnish welfare is very limited, it exists within our country’s borders. It only occurs if political decisions allow it to take place and are not driven down by harmful policies. However, these loan laws have been forgotten by the government when the goal is to drive down the Finnish peat industry. The peat industry has been an important part of the domestic energy sector and security of supply, but at the same time it has created a livelihood for many Finnish families. However, from the point of view of the sitting government, the entire peat industry has been a real evildoer. Mr President! Thousands of jobs have been ready to be destroyed, security of supply has been ready to be reduced and the cost to Finnish taxpayers has been increased. The result has been the unemployed Finns, financial difficulties and energy imported from outside our borders. However, in the case of peat, it seems that not only is the eyes shiny, but also the ears are wanted to be shut off from the wakes of the peat industry. First, in the name of climate action, the peat industry’s entrepreneurs and workers were hit to the ground. The jobs in the peat sector will evaporate so that China and other countries can continue to impose their emissions on the same whirlwinds. A transition to government would be an uncontrollable collapse. Then, this spring, when I woke up that this was a real death blow to many places, the support money was given to peat workers and businesses. The government was in a hurry to drive down the peat, but there was no such rush in support of the peat industry. When MPs were returning from summer holidays in the autumn, the peat industry still had no idea when the first support euro would be coming and who could get it. I don't think the government itself is aware of this. It is also a much wider issue than merely changes to the domestic energy sector and its workplaces. In Finland, the structure of peat soils has been divided so that, in addition to peat peat, material is extracted from the peat mattress, which is used as peat for growth and dry peat. The importance of these in Finnish food production is particularly important. Since peat has been raised from the same countries as energy peat, the cost of raising has also been divided into several parts. If the energy peat is no longer raised, the costs will be borne solely by growth and dry peat. There is a risk that they too will not be raised because of poor profitability. Therefore, when political decisions are taken to dismantle access to energy peat, there is also a risk of access to growth and dry peat. As regards energy peat, it has been seen that domestic fuel has been replaced by imported goods. The same threat also exists with regard to peat for growth and drought. At its worst, however, it can be concluded that, as a result of the increase in costs, a part of food production is completely excluded from Finland, as it is not profitable. If the government thinks that Finnish agriculture is doing well, it is unhelpably wrong. Finnish farms will have to consider how to survive in the future and how to get Finnish food into Finnish tables in the future. Adding to this soup that the cost of food production increases as a result of the distress of the peat industry will make the outlook even darker. The peat sector and Finnish agriculture expect government support. So far, only a stick and no carrot have been available for the peat industry. At this rate, the carrot found at the Finnish tables will also be imported. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u94	I would like to say that in a few moments we will be running out of time — or in fact we are already. The great committee should now begin. I will see how many of these speakers come to this and we will continue for a while. Then I will see if I have to stop so that the great committee can begin, and then this sitting will continue at 3 p.m. — Representative Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u95	Thank you, Madam President. In accordance with Prime Minister Sanna Marin’s Government Programme, a parliamentary committee was set up to develop Finland’s crisis management policy, with the task of developing a comprehensive policy for crisis management to improve the effectiveness of operations and the planning of the use of resources, as well as quantitatively to ensure adequate participation. According to the Government Programme, Finland maintains and develops its capacity to participate in international civilian and military crisis management tasks together with other international actors. The Committee's opinions aim to halt the downward trend in participation in military crisis management and to strengthen participation, while keeping the level of participation and appropriations in 2020 as a minimum starting point. Changes in the international environment and conflict are reflected in crisis management needs and policies, which poses new security challenges for operations and persons in them, among other things. While education aims to provide basic capacity to work in crisis management tasks in an international context and often in challenging circumstances, for example, operating in a high security risk environment can cause both mental and physical aftercare needs when returning to the country of origin. Mr President! The Parliamentary Committee on Crisis Management therefore notes the need for after-care and its financing in its recommendations for the development of Finland’s crisis management: ‘Also, long-term support from crisis management operations and the necessary rehabilitation needs to be developed and sufficient resources are available. Replaced by the State Treasury, those serving in crisis management tasks have the opportunity to receive mental support and the services of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa's psychiatric consulting department for one year after the end of their service. Problems may arise, especially in the event of trauma - related stress disorder, even years after the end of the ministry. The identification of PTSD symptoms as early as possible and the provision of assistance are important for both those returning from crisis management tasks and those close to them. In practice, the Finnish Peacekeeper Federation is the only one offering the necessary mental support to its members, both in military and civilian crisis management missions, in cooperation with the State Treasury and HUS. The activities are based on the annual discretionary financing of the Social and Health Care Centre (STEA). Account should be taken of the adequate level of funding and the predictability of the funding base.” Mr President! It is therefore incomprehensible that, at the same time as the Government Programme seeks to strengthen participation in crisis management, there has been a significant cut in the funding of after-care, even though the Parliamentary Committee expressly mentions that it should be safeguarded. Hopefully, the government will ensure predictable and adequate funding for long-term support and related rehabilitation for returnees and those in need of crisis management operations. Mr President! Just a few more words about rescue. Finland’s internal security is deteriorating not only as regards the police but also as regards the rescue services. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, has stated in his previous replies that municipalities must fill the funding gap of more than EUR 80 million before 2023. However, the Government is now increasing the funding of the rescue services by only EUR 25 million, which is not even enough to cover the funding gap that has already been identified. In addition to this, there is news from the municipalities that the administration's posts will be filled and, at the same time, cuts will be made to the station network and service level, that is to say cuts to the services that the people need in times of need and the funding of which the government has previously promised to secure. Mr President! Will the government ensure adequate funding for municipalities to fill the funding gap identified by the Ministry? What are the measures that the government intends to take in practice to ensure that rescue services are secured rather than cutbacks and that the services of rescue services are not weakened in municipalities? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u96	The debate and the debate will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 3 p.m. at the end of the large committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u97	The plenary session, suspended at 1.35 p.m., will continue. Let's stay on point 3 and continue with the referral. — Mr Löfström is absent, Mr Tynkkynen is absent — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-01-ps-108.u98	Mr President! At the close of the debate on the budget, I should like to say that this proposal for a budget as a whole is not very convincing. Despite the upturn, which is quite historic, however, debt and a huge deficit are being taken into account in the budget, and there is no way to even invest that money in anything that produces — it is more about taking on an eating debt. Even if there is no money, the government still spends extra money on permanent and recurring expenses, and can't even afford to take care of basic security and the rule of law in the form of the maintenance of police and judicial resources — even in the past, these presentations can no longer afford. The Government will continue the series of recurring electoral budgets in which every party is, as it were, getting something, and the future generations will pay for this fun. The government is not even in a position to set priorities, because, contrary to what it would imagine in the event of a deficit, transfers of funds abroad are not limited, but on the contrary they are increased. Such action is not likely to inspire confidence in the government.
