ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 9/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 November 2021. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I will submit a motion for amendment in accordance with the Rule 3 of the Basic Finnish Rule.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I am in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 November 2021. In the debate Kaisa Juuso Minna Reijonen has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u5	The fifth item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Representatives Riikka Purra and 78 other representatives have raised the question of the interim VK 5/2021 vp Finland's preparedness for a hybrid effect based on migration flows. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question. — Representative Purra, please. At the same time, I would like to say to the Members that I hope for silence so that they can put forward the interim question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u6	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. It is now decided, on the basis of the report by the Committee on the Future, on the basis of the report TuVM 1/2021 vp, on the basis of the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on the Future, Mr Joakim Strand, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Krista Mikkonen will then be given the opportunity to speak for five minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. — Debate, representative Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u7	Mr President, ärade talman! During the last parliamentary term, the Government made Finland's first ever report on Agenda 2030 and accordingly the Committee on the Future prepared the Parliament's first ever report on Agenda. Finland is listed as the number one in the international comparison of how the measures of the Agenda for Action have been taken forward on a broad front and various indicators have been developed. The Agenda has guided the current government programme, and phenomena-based development has also been promoted in the budget, as the Committee on the Future has hoped in many opinions over the years. For the report before us, we have heard a long list of experts and received opinions from up to nine different committees. At this stage, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and TuV colleagues and the secretariat for their very active and committed work. In our unanimous report, which also contains 14 impetuss, we focus on the management of the systemic sustainability breakthrough and the message of hope. Mr President! Finland’s sustainable development policy is based on a broad institutional structure and a multidimensional approach. The measures are planned, implemented and evaluated by a large number of committees, panels, panels, round tables and research and working groups. The work is guided by various programmes, strategies, road maps and monitoring and evaluation indicators. The diversity of actors and activities reflects the wide-ranging and long-term commitment of Finnish society to sustainable development. At the same time, however, the risk of duplication of work, siloing and the lack of full use of the work carried out increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u8	Mr President! As a cross-cutting theme both in the 2030 report and in the opinions of the opinion committees and experts, there is a need to achieve a systemic sustainability change across society. In this speech, I would like to highlight some of the necessary preconditions for a sustainable transition. The committee's expert hearings highlighted the rapidly deteriorating environment. According to the World Economic Forum, the failure to combat climate change and the collapse of biodiversity have become one of the six most serious threats to humanity. While several opinions from experts and committees combine the view of the difficulty and pregnancy of the necessary systemic changes, most say that these changes are also an important economic opportunity and future investment in sustainable employment growth. In addition to social, economic and ecological sustainability, we also need to talk about cultural sustainability, because transformational solutions require attention to be paid to the customs, values and meanings on which our way of life is built. Perhaps we need a redefinition of the concept of civilisation. For example, the ethos of consumption has been integrated into our culture and, given that the culture of consumption should be directed towards a circular economy in the context of a sustainable transition, change must also take place in the identity and behaviour of individuals, which are influenced by the cultural habits, habits and values of community activities. In order to support the culture of sustainable change, there is a need to strengthen inter-science sustainability research, particularly in the field of human sciences. Mr President! Policy coherence is an important part of the 2030 Agenda, and the Committee on the Future has long stated the need for policy coherence, phenomena-based budgeting and indicators of a sustainable welfare economy complementary to the GDP indicator, which can monitor the progress of sustainable development over long term budgetary and parliamentary periods. It is particularly important to develop the monitoring of natural and human capital and to link it to economic monitoring. We must also learn to lower the price of inaction, that is, what it costs humanely, ecologically and economically if we do not make progress towards sustainable development. The Committee on the Future also proposes to develop a specific foresight assessment to assess the use of foresight data in the preparation of legislation. The joint consultation between the Audit Committee and the Future Committee also highlighted the need to strengthen the link between risk assessment, preparedness and foresight in the state administration. Policy coherence also highlights the importance of a phenomenon-based approach, such as phenomenon-based budgeting. These measures are concrete, coordinated and evaluated by road maps and monitoring instruments as key tools for policy coherence and knowledge-based decision-making. Progress in development and achievement of objectives should be systematically assessed over the term of government. It is important to involve all members of society, including children, young people, immigrants, special groups and the elderly, as active actors and factors in sustainable change. Concrete cooperation increases the sense of work and everyday activities and the confidence that no one will be left behind or left alone. Participation in decision-making on changes that change and improve daily life is an effective way to promote the mental, forward-looking resilience of the nation. The public debate must be able to bring about different positions and perspectives and openly discuss both the good and the bad consequences of the change. Mr President! Finally, a few words about the importance of the message. Several expert opinions called for more emotional attention to be paid to communication. People need the opportunity to recognise their feelings of environmental guilt, sorrow and anger, but at the same time community support, compassionate encounters, positive future visions, pride and emphasis on meaning and hope are important for all and especially for young people. They make it possible to channel emotions into civic activity. There is a need for greater communication about the wide range of actions, choices and consumption decisions that will enable each of us to take responsibility for promoting sustainable change. However, responsibility for sustainable development must not come first to the individual level; decision-makers must create credible and hopeful guidelines and conditions for sustainable action. The most inspiring positive examples of change are close to people's everyday lives, and, as the President-in-Office said just now, a sustainable future must be made human-sized and human-looking. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u9	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u10	Mr President! Agenda 2030, the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development, was agreed between UN member states in 2015. It formally entered into force at the beginning of 2016. At the heart of the global agenda are the 17 jointly agreed objectives and their 169 sub-objectives, which apply equally to all Member States. The achievement of the Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals, both in Finland and in other EU Member States, is in many respects linked to decision-making in the European Union. Finland, and in particular the current Finnish sitting government, have been determined to implement the Agenda from the beginning. In fact, in Finland, the Government has defined as one of its big goals the so-called participatory and competent Finland, which is socially, ecologically and economically sustainable, carbon-neutral society. The report before us is the second implementation plan, which has been submitted as a report to Parliament. Mr President! The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group sees that funding for development cooperation should be viewed more critically in the future, as it is usually the interest of those involved in development cooperation to present development cooperation in a very positive light. Money donated by Finnish taxpayers to projects in developing countries should be subject to considerably stricter framework conditions for the achievement of long-term objectives. On the other hand, with the corona crisis, it is also good to look at national food security and flexibility in food production from a global perspective. True Finns see that it is justified for Finland to continue to provide food security, one of the cornerstones of which is stable and well-functioning domestic food production. The Finnish Parliament Group emphasises that a sustainable domestic food system can only be built on profitable domestic primary production, nothing more. This is why it is particularly important to strengthen the profitability of primary production by means of various means, and the implementation of the action programme must be accompanied by concrete measures and targets for agricultural subsidies to achieve the economic sustainability of agricultural production. The guilt of primary producers under the guise of climate policy must be stopped. In addition, the Finnish Parliament Group would like to remind you that the health and welfare of farmed animals are part of the national quality strategy and thus strengthen the sustainability of the entire food chain. Mr President! We would like to emphasise that the production of Finnish beef is already based on grass feed and soy is not used as feed. According to the Government Programme, one of the objectives of the Climate Food Programme is to support the transition of society towards a sustainable food system. The sustainable food system is also linked to plans to make fisheries and reindeer husbandry competitive. We consider it important that the new innovations to be developed are productable and enable Finnish food business operators to expand their export activities. Sustainable forestry must reflect in particular the long-term nature of operations and therefore the requirement for policy predictability and the implementation of the Government of Changes. In Finland, the important role of enterprises and extensive self-declared work in implementing Agenda 2030 can also be seen as a strength in forestry, as well, for example, the commitment of the forest industry to responsibility and the forest environment programme. In addition, the climate road map for forestry lists a number of measures to safeguard sustainable forest growth. In previous opinions, the Finnish Parliament Group has already drawn attention to the need to keep forests in good condition so that they can maintain their biodiversity, their climate-relevant functions and the potential of forestry. Mr President! Finally, a few aspects of the government's employment policy. As stated in the report, the transition to a carbon-neutral economy coincides with a wider workflow. The Government has promised to support a fair transition to a carbon-neutral economy, including through training and employment services and lifelong guidance. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group sees that the government's employment measures have not been sufficient or realistic either. In fact, the government has also delegated responsibility to future governments in the employment sector. The actions taken by the government are purely cosmetic, such as extending the compulsory education age. We in Finland see the urgent need to return to the centre of political decision-making: ‘The energy price must be sufficient to compensate for the long journeys within our countries and countries of origin. “ Only a low energy price can compensate for the additional long-distance costs of transporting our products to the market. The government now seems to have completely forgotten this in its policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u11	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u12	Madam President! This conversation could not have come at a better time. The UN climate conference in Glasgow ended last week. In the EU and also here in Parliament, there is a massive EU 55 package of preparedness. With the help of their new councils, many municipalities and cities have set ambitious targets for a more sustainable society. For many of us the news about Glasgow, the EU or our local councils is either too much or too little. I myself am a member of the parliamentary group and a member of the Assembly, and I am pleased that concrete measures are being taken forward. It is good that there is widespread concern about the future of mankind, at many levels, as the work of actors of different sizes and sizes. The rapidly deteriorating environment on our planet is a fact that cannot be denied or fled. On the other hand, recognition of this fact should also include an understanding of how big and difficult the challenge is. I am thinking, among other things, of the wise words of Petteri Talas, Director General of the World Meteorological Institute, that even if climate emissions were stopped today, climate change would continue until 2060. That is why long-term actions, good judgment and common sense are needed. Our generation of decision-makers must do our best today to ensure a more sustainable climate and society for their children and their children. The earth is always on loan from future generations. Mr President! The Assembly's parliamentary group also takes a positive and constructive view of the report by the Committee on the Future of Europe on the 2030 Agenda report under discussion. We believe that the report contains a realistic assessment of Finland's role in achieving the 2030 Agenda objectives. Together with other Nordic countries, we are one of the world's leading countries in sustainable development, but we have a lot of work to do. The Coalition agrees with the Committee on the Future that the most important bottlenecks in national sustainability change are ecological indebtedness, employment rates lower than those in other Nordic countries and public finances as a result of demographic and regional development. This whole also includes problems of loneliness, mental health and immobility, which undermine individual well-being and also cause high social costs. The report also contains concrete proposals for improvements on how to proceed better from now on. The Coalition Party wishes to highlight three areas of development in particular: 1) The current structures for sustainable development policy need to be clarified and streamlined at the latest in the next Government Programme. Work to achieve the 2030 Agenda is carried out by a number of actors, but at the same time there is a lack of coordination between the various actors. The risk of duplication of work, isolation and the lack of full use of the work carried out is therefore evident in the current situation. In addition, the management of the sustainable transition required to achieve the 2030 Agenda targets requires a more guiding set of indicators, monitoring and evaluation. 2) A successful sustainability change requires investment in education and research. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party agrees with the Committee on the Future that global sustainability challenges can only be solved by raising the level of competence and relying on researched information. That is why the clear objective of the Convention is to increase the effort to research to 4% of GDP. 3) In addition to education and research, the transition towards a more sustainable society requires greater use of technology and its potential. The Assembly's parliamentary group is open to the proposal to create a Positive Handprint programme, which was raised in the report of the Committee on the Future. The programme would be a good instrument to strengthen the positive message of sustainability change when looking at the challenges of sustainable growth from the perspective of sustainable employment. Mr President! To the end: ‘It seems impossible, has been done. “ This quote made famous by Nelson Mandela is also suitable for describing our task ahead of us in building a more sustainable Finland and the world. In the midst of a major change, we need hope, not a decibel democracy of extremes. At the meeting, we do not believe that economic growth and the fight against climate change are opposites. We certainly do not believe that the world will be saved by guilt. Instead, we believe in the power of cooperation from individuals to states by trusting in man. Today’s challenges are created by people themselves. Thus, the solution to these challenges can also be found in us. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u13	Congressman Heikkinen, Hannakaisa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u14	Mr President! My wife and I are holding a dairy farm in Rappa in Kiuruvesi, the 11th generation. Our boys would be 12. a generation as farmkeepers. In time, they themselves will decide what to do with their lives. What I do know is that the land is dear to my children. Back in the day, my younger sons asked: “Mother,they pollute the aircraft more than the honeygrowers? “ The crying that was arrested felt a little bit in my throat, still feels. What would you, my listener, answer? Mr President! It has crossed a line when a school-age child asks such a question or a youth is afraid of the end of the world and is distressed. Finnish fields, Finnish forests, Finnish land: they are where the solutions are, where the solutions grow. Clean, domestic, renewable up — polluting, foreign, non-renewable down. Still, finger pointing continues. Still, guilt continues. Yet the absurdity continues. The decision on meat and milk in Helsinki is the latest indication of this. It's madness. Yet the coal continues to burn here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u21	Congressman Petelius.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u22	Madam President, värderade fru talman! Sustainable development is the lifeblood of our humanity. We cannot continue our life on earth in the way it is today — our planet simply cannot bear it. The Greens are proud of the Government's objective of creating a carbon-neutral welfare society in line with the 2030 Agenda. However, we are concerned about the timetable for implementing the change — we need more climate and nature measures now. The UN Global Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 will serve as a road map to achieve a carbon-neutral and socially just welfare society. Its central objective is to keep everyone in touch with the change and not to leave anyone behind. Social justice and a fair transition towards carbon neutrality are strongly reflected in both the Government report and the report by the Committee on the Future — for which I thank you very much. In order for our existence to be on a sustainable basis, we need to achieve a significant reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions and a controlled climate crisis and a natural disaster. We must achieve carbon neutrality by 2035. The key instruments are, for example, the phasing out of fossil energy and emission reductions in all sectors of society. Practical climate work is largely carried out in cities and municipalities, companies and organisations — in everyday life for all of us. We all need to be involved in the fight against the climate crisis. Madam President, ärade fru talman! In addition to ambitious climate and environmental policies, sustainable development requires social justice and inclusion of all. Preventing poverty and exclusion is therefore one of our best investments in the future. Sustainable development requires an adequate level of social protection and, for example, support for the transition to environmentally friendly solutions, such as the abandonment of oil heating. In its report, the Committee on the Future also highlights sufficient investment in education and continuous learning in order to respond to future changes in working life. That is what we Greens warmly support. Achieving sustainable development goals globally requires stability, strong democracy and the realisation of human rights throughout the world. Unfortunately, the corona pandemic has pushed these objectives further and further. As a result of the crisis, inequalities have increased, gender equality has deteriorated and learning outcomes have been affected. Extreme poverty has increased for the first time in over 20 years. Agenda 2030 points the way towards democracy, respect for human dignity and equal opportunities and non-discrimination, and its objectives must be upheld. In times of crisis, sustainable development will become more important, and Finland must stick to its role as a defender of human rights, democracy and equality. It must be possible to increase the budget for development cooperation to 0.7% of GDP. Värderade fru talman, Madam President! The implementation of the Sustainable Development Agenda must be accelerated. We have less than ten years to achieve these objectives. Finland achieved its objectives of social and economic sustainability well, but not ecological sustainability. We therefore urgently need more climate and nature measures. We know how to build an ecologically, socially and economically sustainable future. Now we need a common will. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u23	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u24	Madam President! The dead planet has no development, no economy, no welfare. The global environmental crisis is the most pressing obstacle to sustainable development. If climate conditions and biodiversity collapse on our planet, we will at the same time destroy people's habitats and our chance to build a fairer world. Inequality is a huge global problem and a brake on development. It is therefore important that Agenda 2030 is based on the idea of ‘no waste after development’. Therefore, in pursuing these objectives, particular attention will be paid to those who are often left behind. This week we're celebrating the Rights Week of the Child. Addressing poverty and access to school for all children regardless of family background or gender are key factors in children’s well-being. 200 million school-age children did not attend school in 2015. Agenda 2030 added the goal of having all children in school by 2030. The basic idea of Agenda 2030 ‘not to be left behind’has been at particular risk as the schooling of hundreds This will have a major impact on the implementation and sustainable development of human rights. We must now do everything we can to overcome this setback. Finland must continue its work to ensure that no children are left behind. We urgently need a road map to guide 0.7% of our GDP in the future to development cooperation, like the other Nordic countries. Mr President! Controlling the environmental crisis is about directing the planet’s resources into a sustainable way of life. We need to reduce emissions and over-consumption, but even more importantly we need to build a new sustainable society. In the future, everyday choices must take place within a durable frame. It is insane that it is at all possible for us to choose a way of life that leads to self - destruction, a way of reducing the living space of others elsewhere, a way of life that we leave behind others by continuing. The focus of left-wing climate policy is to change the structures. The work is the most important of the structures, for it gives us our livelihood. The adaptation of human activity to the planet’s borders means the dismantling of certain industries and practices, but also the growth of others. For example, a circular economy needs wind power from a strong chemical industry and a fossil-free energy system. Food production will inevitably change, and that is something to be prepared for already. All of this means a new kind of work. It is also a matter of climate policy that society invests in the retraining of workers. The model of continuous learning is to ensure that no one is left behind in development. Mr President! While the implementation of the 2030 targets is still ongoing and progress has been made, action needs to be accelerated and expanded to achieve them. We need indicators to assess the environmental debt burden, the effectiveness of policy measures and the progress of sustainable development beyond budgetary and parliamentary periods. Several committees stressed policy coherence in their opinions. World trade, foreign and security policy, climate and environmental policy and even education policy are not only development policy but also areas where we influence how well-being is distributed in the world. The impact of legislation needs to be assessed ex ante and ex post from the perspective of sustainable development. Finland's cross-border externalities need to be monitored more extensively, and the development of natural and human capital needs to be accompanied by economic monitoring. Public procurement also plays a major role in this. The Left Alliance believes that we in Finland need to adapt our lives and our economy to the environmental conditions of a more equal society and fair mitigation of the climate crisis. A prosperous country such as Finland must also support sustainable development elsewhere so that no one is left behind. That is why the Left Alliance supports the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u25	Ärade talman, Mr President! Sustainable development and Agenda 2030 have become a widely accepted goal in society. What is particularly great is how diverse we are today talking about sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u26	Madam President! Although it is a little unusual, in this group speech I would like to thank Mrs Hannakaisa for Heikki. It was a warm speech, thank you for that. It was also personal. Mr President! We have woken up to the objectives of sustainable development some 100 years too late — but good. No poverty, no hunger, declares Agenda 2030. The objectives of Agenda 2030 and the themes of the Government report are so broad that there is no way to go over all the essential aspects. In this speech, I will focus on poverty and hunger. The events of recent weeks, such as the wave of asylum seekers in Belarus, the climate negotiations in Glasgow and the war in Ethiopia, remind us that development policy cannot be separated from foreign policy, economic policy, conflict and global geopolitical power play. Everything has to do with everything. Wars, conflicts and the lack of development of the food sector are still the main causes of famine in Yemen, Afghanistan, Ethiopia and so on. Conflicts prevent vulnerable societies from investing in agriculture and food security and people from improving their own living standards. This will also lead to unsustainable use of natural resources and loss of biodiversity. This was also the case in Finland at the time. The history of Finland is also the history of famines. It is possible that there has been more starvation in relation to the population than in any other part of Europe. We can be grateful to previous generations for the welfare in which we live. Of course, Mr President, there is also hunger in today's Finland. The bread queues have not disappeared, and the organisations working in them get a piece of the Christmas gift money from Parliament — if they even get it. Despite international praises, our national security of supply situation is at a weak level. Our school system is falling in Pisa statistics, and not all young people even learn enough mother tongue skills. However, we also have the will and the means to help others and to do genuine things to reduce climate emissions and protect biodiversity. If we think that we need to put an end to all poverty in Finland before we can help others, then the day of helping others will never come. We know that environmental protection is dependent on sufficient economic prosperity, security and stability. No society can withstand a deep social division between groups of people, whether ethnic or cultural or even political. Finland can help developing countries adapt to climate change and do so, for example, in the agricultural and forestry sectors. NGOs and international organisations are doing a unique job in training farmers, for example, to achieve new farming procedures. As the climate changes, there is a particular need for investments in sustainable agriculture, globally. Food will continue to be produced mainly in fields, meadows and watercourses. There are different views in this Chamber on development cooperation. It is idealized and criticized. There is wisdom in helping and maintaining contacts. There is no wisdom to isolate. Development cooperation must, of course, be viewed critically, as is the case with all central government finances. I regret that we are still not committed to the 0.7% objective of development cooperation, at least at a practical level. Mr President! The Christian Democrats want to draw attention to something which is well mentioned in the report by the Committee on the Future. That is the importance of the message of hope. Can we speak of Finland as a welfare society if we lack hope? Ironically, when I have visited developing countries, even very poor people there have something we lack, that is, hope. Young people experience the anxiety of climate change and biodiversity loss in a very special way. Without hope, this work will not work. Climate change could also be a challenge that unites mankind. We heard from Glasgow that even China and the United States found common notes in the fight against climate change. A carbon-neutral welfare society is built not by talking in this Chamber but by building a better one. It requires everyone, including businesses and entrepreneurs. As a society, we must do everything we can to ensure that the 2030 Joint Declaration is also implemented here in Finland and that hunger is reduced. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u27	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u28	Mr President, ärade talman! This great task of Agenda 2030 will never be completed if we do not involve all Finns. I'm not worried about companies or citizens. I'm sure they'll do their part if we politicians don't mess with the whole thing. Political decision-making must be consistent and predictable. We politicians must show direction and create hope. We need to create conditions. We need to create opportunities. Every student, employee and entrepreneur must be allowed to be an entrepreneur of their own life. Every Finn must have an opportunity. Everyone must have the opportunity to make choices and influence their own lives and the future of their children. But now it's time for the party talk. The mother of all strategies is to make things work and to make new things happen. Companies and citizens will develop and move forward. Political decision-making is stagnating. This cannot continue. Mr President, ärade talman! We've got the basics in place. We have room, we have wind, we have clean indoor waters and a functioning system, both in society and in basic needs. I am really worried about the condition of the Baltic Sea, but more about it later. Wind power is a great story. With the support of society, projects were speeded up and the market has since been allowed to handle the rest. Talks about the Gulf of Persia in the Bothnian Sea are not We need to make better use of technology. During the time of the interest rate, those working at a distance took a significant step. For example, we need a similar digital leap on the social side, where costs are otherwise completely out of control. Until now, Finland has taken good care of its forests and will continue to do so. We are not going to let the Member States of the European Union give us advice that has destroyed their forests, are we? Nuclear power will continue to be an important link in energy, and its role must be monitored in order in the EU. Germany made a major mistake by giving up nuclear power and being overly dependent on Russian natural gas. The nuclear power station we use must be used up. The construction of new large ones is questionable because of their price, but good news comes from the industry when Rolls-Royce developed a mini-nuclear power plant at a speed. The technology is familiar with nuclear submarines. Wärtsilä also develops mininuclear power plants in Finland. Finland’s share of global emissions is in the order of per mill, which is good to remember. The least we need is such moral postings, which the City of Helsinki made when it decided to give up meat food. The decision was a wet cloth on the face of domestic meat production. People have to decide for themselves what they're eating. Companies run their own climate targets at a speed that has surprised all decision-makers. The market will work when the market lets it work. Mr President, ärade talman! Education and science are the leverage of a small country. We need to take care of the skills and ability of teachers. You can't compromise research resources. The success of mobile games and the recent Wolt store show us the model and give us confidence in the new digital world domination of Finnish competence. Artificial intelligence is already widely used in production and in the search and analysis of information. The use of artificial intelligence will increase and offer a great deal of potential in terms of efficiency and quality of production and also energy saving. Here we have the opportunity to be a pioneer. Ecological debt is not a major problem for us. On the other hand, we have major problems with the general government deficit, the increase in public debt and the deterioration of the dependency ratio. For 15 years, not enough has been done. We need to influence what we can do. Business confidence in the future, investment and growth create jobs and wealth. When we have the opportunity to put the labour market and our competitiveness in order, why not do it? More research and product development is needed. The most important thing is that the state, for example by guaranteeing loans, gives companies a backstop to investment. Companies must also be encouraged on the tax side. Mr President, ärade talman! I trust companies, entrepreneurs and working Finns. They'll do their job. Our job is to give you a chance to succeed. A sustainable future is the size of man.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u29	At this point, I will give the floor to Minister Mikkos for 5 minutes, and then we will see if there is a need for a debate. — — — — Minister Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u30	Mr President! The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has led the whole world to a more sustainable path since 2015. The Government submitted its own implementation plan as a report to Parliament in November last year. I would like to thank Parliament and the Committee on the Future for its thorough and extensive examination of the report. Parliament's position extends our debate in this Chamber beyond Agenda 2030's work. It highlights the need for a sustainable change in society as a whole and brings us to social value issues. Globally, the implementation of Agenda 2030 is at the cutting edge. Before the corona pandemic, we had made progress in reducing poverty and hunger, promoting child health and increasing gender equality, but the pandemic has produced serious setbacks for many objectives. Internationally, Finland is at the forefront of country comparisons in the implementation of Agenda 2030. We are a Nordic welfare society in which social and economic objectives are fairly well achieved. However, our present welfare is based on action that transcends the earth’s carrying capacity. The results of the international comparison showed that our main challenges are related to ecological sustainability, such as the need for change in consumption and production patterns, biodiversity, climate action and the state of seas and water bodies, as well as support for other countries in the implementation of Agenda 2030. In fact, the government considers it an important issue to break ecological indebtedness. The climate crisis and the natural disaster are progressing at an alarming rate. Our ecological debt is largely due to over-consumption. This can be curbed by implementing circular economy models and disengaging from fossil forms of energy. While building a circular economy, we must monitor and reduce the impact of economic activity on natural capital and seek solutions to strengthen natural capital. The systemic nature of the sustainability change has been highlighted in a number of expert opinions. This is an important issue. Sustainability challenges cannot be tackled by focusing on individual problems or by one administrative sector, but require understanding and action at system level. Finally, Parliament points out in its opinion that we need to create a positive faith in the future and see opportunities instead of gloomy. I fully agree with this message. We in the government see that Agenda 2030 as a whole is actually a programme of hope. It gives a vision and shows the way to a world in which people’s well-being is secure and where we can live with respect to the limits of the carrying capacity of nature. In this Chamber, too, we have said many times that we have the keys to change in our hands. There are solutions, technology and knowledge and often will. We must ensure that everyone participates and stays in the process of change and that everyone has a meaningful angle and a way to participate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The Commission for Sustainable Development is currently working on the National Agenda 2030 Road Map. It will be a positive report by society as a whole and a plan for what action we will achieve all the objectives of Agenda 2030 by the end of the decade. Spottings of light were also created in Glasgow last week. World countries kept the door open to halt the climate crisis to 1.5 degrees. The Paris Treaty rule book was finalised. Cooperation for the future of the earth was possible in a situation where the world is characterised by many other tensions. There is now a greater need for practical measures to reduce climate emissions around the world. Creating a new story of sustainable development is not just a task of the government and parliament, but involves everyone: citizens, businesses, public administration and organisations and other actors. This collaboration is also the guiding principle and resource of Finland’s 2030 Agenda work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u31	And then I'm gonna ask you if you're willing to go to the debat. Obviously there is, so I would ask those representatives who wish to use the reply in the debate to stand up and ask for answers with the V button. — Debatin is initiated by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u35	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u36	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Heikkinen just asked why his school-age child feels guilty about the climate. I think that we really need to stop this frighting and, in particular, the guilt of people who are not able to influence this issue so much. It is sad to see the big leaders flying their own planes to sleep at the Glasgow meeting. And it's not actually compensated for by making Helsinki fleshless. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u37	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u38	Mr President! Agenda 2030 — I do not think we are going to be able to achieve a great deal of debate here as to whether there may be a problem with this over-electionary thinking or anything else. I think that Finland has done very well in this Agenda, is one of the best in the world, but Finland also has certain problems, and this goes to the fact that, in my opinion, a strong state economy is also the best friend of sustainable development. I am a little worried about what we will be able to afford in the future if we look at them here and see that ‘Finland has not achieved ‘or’some of the positivedevelopments have been jeopardised’,andthatthere will be‘maintain economic growth’ at a relatively highlevel,so I would hope that, even in this situation,we will first have to grow a cake,which could then be shared for all good purposes. I, for one, am very hopeful that: Finland will continue to cope with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u39	Congressman Heikkinen, Hannakaisa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u40	Madam President! Finland must play its part in curbing global warming, but only its part. We don't have to shoot ourselves in the foot. Clean domestic renewables up, polluting foreign non-renewables down — that's it. In this way we can reduce emissions, create new jobs and entrepreneurship in Finland, and do our part of people's everyday lives without despatch. Politics must be fair and fair for the whole of Finland and for all Finns. The Centre will not accept and will not accept solutions to pay the bill to ordinary people: those who work, those who are low-income and those who live in rural areas. It is time to focus on the right and truly effective things and stop blaming people’s food plates or blaming farmers and motorists.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u41	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! We have one earth within which we must operate within the limits of sustainability. The fact that climate and biodiversity goals are in a hurry and telling them is not to blame. We have young people who are conscious. We in these rich countries are overexploiting everything, and a large part of the emissions and destruction of nature are generated elsewhere than here in our neighborhoods. There are many tasks and opportunities. I would also like to point out that the global challenge of the Corona pandemic is to meet these Agenda 2030 objectives and achieve them. The fact that after the Millennium Development Goals such consistent goals were sought throughout the world, not just for developing countries, as they were, must not mean that we turn to ourselves and to our own navel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u43	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u44	Mr President! It is young people who understand this sustainability crisis. The Youth Agenda 2030 Group asked the Committee on the Future whether we needed radical social vision and changes in our economic system or our way of life in order to achieve equality and climate goals, and the answer is that we do. For example, the climate panel estimates that the carbon footprint of Finnish households should decrease by 70% in order to be sustainable in line with our climate objectives. In other words, young people understand this, and this role of over-consumption must not be underestimated. Well, some of this sustainability change will happen anyway. It's going to happen faster than we can even expect and regardless of us. One example is the upheaval in food production, for example with the production of industrial protein. There's no point in resisting this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u45	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u46	Tack, ärade talman! I would also like to thank the Minister for his thanks on behalf of the committee. There were a lot of good points in the group speeches. Here, for example, Mäkisalo-Ropponen spoke well of this message of hope, Peltokangas spoke well of the forest industry, Kautto again of the importance of combating climate change and of these structures, which I myself mentioned in that opening speech. Then there is the excellent speech from Mr Hekkinen: the countryside of Finland is part of the solution, not the problem, absolutely. Representatives Petelius and Kivelä spoke well about how no one should be left behind.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u48	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u49	Mr President! Finland is a good country. For example, Finland is at the forefront of sustainable development comparisons with other Nordic countries. Of course, there's a lot of challenges. We're spending a lot. On a global scale, Finnish consumption is a drop in the ocean, but it is not possible that everyone spends at the same rate as us. So our consumption does not solve the world’s problems, but our example can do so. Of course, new technologies create faith in the future, but not everything can be counted on development. The existing instruments must be implemented with determination. The abandonment of fossil fuels, for example, by switching oil heating to ground heat, is already today. We do.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u50	Congressman Sjöblom.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u51	Mr President! The climate crisis is undoubtedly a major challenge for mankind's future. If we fail to control it, we will live in every way in a more difficult world. I would like to make a specific point in this debate now about these public procurements. The value of public procurement in Finland is as high as EUR 35 billion annually. Using such great economic resources, it is possible to make real choices for a more sustainable world and for the future. We need more ethical and ecologically sustainable public procurement. Binding criteria must be set for the award of procurement decisions in relation to carbon footprint and the implementation of human rights. With binding criteria enshrined in the law, we could make a credible contribution to achieving our national climate objectives while ensuring that public funds do not end up for unethical workers who exploit their workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u52	Congressman Petelius.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank everyone for the fact that, as Mrs Wallinheim said, there is a broad understanding here that this programme, Agenda 2030, is necessary and good. It has so many angles that each one has its own weighting point. In my opinion, that umbrella is this so-called natural disaster. But the first of these 17 points is the eradication of extreme poverty in the world — when poverty was mentioned here — and the problem is actually not poverty, but the unequal distribution of wealth. 1% of the world's population owns 50% of its wealth. This is the kind of thing that's first up there. Then I would just like to remind you that it is not to blame that we in Finland have eight times the ecological consumption footprint compared to India, for example, but it is a fact that has been studied, and then our knowledge and technology have an obligation to try to help them,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u54	Mr Kettunen and then the ministers' speeches. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u55	Honorable Madam Speaker! I would like to thank everyone for their contributions: very good speeches. As Mr Laukkanen has already said, the objective of this Agenda 2030 is to eradicate poverty, and I do agree with Mrs Wallinheim that a strong treasury is the best friend of a poor person. As far as this general debate is concerned, I would like us to go down the road of the strong cause and ideology of Santeri Alkio, which should always be at the heart of all policy making. Regional, social and economic justice would then be realised. It has now been somewhat forgotten in this time, and I would support everyone to think and get to know the ideas and literature of Santeri Alkio. Once again, I would like to thank Mr Heikki for his excellent speech. We have farmers in distress today — and the main organisation of farmers has today also offered meat soup on that Narinkkatori.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u56	First Minister Harakka, 2 minutes, and then Minister Mikkonen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u57	Mr President! The Government's report has been prepared in a cross-sectoral way, and many of the Agenda's objectives relate to transport and communication. During this Government term, among other things, funding will be increased for basic bus maintenance, one-off investments in walking and cycling and electrification of lines will be targeted and the broadband programme will be continued. Halving transport emissions in line with the previous government's objective is also an essential part of the Agenda's implementation. However, when my time is limited, I would like to focus on the development of the digital and data economy in my own field, to which the chairman of the committee, Mr Strand, has paid a great deal of attention. Recent initiatives by the European Union to strengthen digital sovereignty, i.e. self-sufficiency, are welcome. They clarify the rules of play of the data economy internal market, the regulation and taxation of gatekeeper companies and the operation of digital platforms. At best, they create room for innovation and fair competition, which bring Finland significant export income of high value added and also improve citizens' services and quality of life and increase equality. This report did not allow time to present the Government's efforts to improve the decision-making of the digital and data economy. This is made possible by a group of digital ministers, where the Presidency rotates between three key ministerial leaders but to which the entire administration contributes, and a related digital office, which is a common address for business and citizens' contacts. The European Union's technological development strategy includes the digital compass of each Member State, and the Digital Ministers have first given the mandate to prepare the Finnish compass programme swiftly with the aim of being Europe's first and first example to others. This is a small country's way of increasing equality between businesses, individuals and society, but also affects the priorities and priorities of the EU. It is impossible to imagine that the sustainability objectives of the Agenda and the fight against climate change can be achieved without digitalisation and the exploitation of data, and that is why Finland's special role in the world is to produce information technology solutions to the world's problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u58	Minister Mikkonen, and three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u59	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the good debate, thank you for the good group speeches, which have highlighted various aspects of this comprehensive package, and thank you also to the committee for the good work it has done, for these concrete contributions which are listed here in 14 paragraphs. I also think that, when this is a matter for us, our 2030 goals – this is globally common, this is common in Europe, in Finland nationally – it is good that we approach from many different perspectives and we look for solutions to ensure that we achieve these goals. Many of the speeches have highlighted the various objectives, the challenges they face. Indeed, if we look at targets for Finland, that big picture is how we ensure this ecological sustainability, and then the questions arise about our consumption habits, sustainable production and the challenge that our consumption problems actually run far beyond our borders when goods are produced elsewhere. On the other hand, we would have a lot of solutions to offer. Of course, our total consumption in absolute terms is small globally, but in relative terms it is large, and if we can find those solutions, we can offer them to others through a circular economy, for example, where Finland has strong expertise and work, so it has a really big impact and our handprint is considerably greater. I am also glad that public procurement came up here because there is another way. Our public procurement is huge and the different procurement criteria that have been set for it also play a role in how we, for our part, ensure sustainable consumption patterns and sustainable production. It is true that, for example, this eradication of poverty is one of the Agenda objectives, that although, of course, Finland as a state is prosperous compared to many poor, developing countries and our poverty is different, we also have poverty among ourselves. For example, homelessness is one of the concrete things for which we need to work even more. This is something that the government has taken seriously in this period and, fortunately, despite the threat of the interest rate, the homelessness has not started to grow, but we still have work to do, and indeed these diversity and climate issues are essential. There was talk here of the need for an economy in order to achieve objectives, but the most important thing is that it is done in a sustainable way. It is built on the basis of its sustainability, so that the economy itself contributes to these objectives and does not assume that, first of all, we must have an economy that is not so sustainable.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u60	Thank you. — And then we move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u61	Mr President! The report is well structured and the report by the Committee on the Future is comprehensive and surprisingly balanced. It is a question of safeguarding the future of people and societies worldwide and of Finland's participation in it. It is clear that social development must be on a sustainable basis. For Finland, it should mean that we should not go into debt indefinitely, as is currently happening. In the report, Finland is strongly committed to EU membership and the development of the Union as well as to a policy consistent with the EU's common values. I do not sign that EU commitment, nor do I sign the values attached to it — and certainly not the majority of the Finnish people, because it seems that the EU is becoming a neo-communist system and a submissive totalitarian, in which democracy is transformed into a travesty and human rights are trampled down and equality is understood in a sick way. The report also mentions that there is trust in the authorities and in the judicial system in Finland, because that trust has been under great strain in recent times, especially with regard to interest rate measures and restrictions on freedom of expression. And it has only been a couple of weeks since our country's top official leadership met under the chairmanship to consider weakening the immunity of Members of Parliament. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen: power belongs to the people and not to that rotten official machinery that no longer serves the people and yet imagines that the people should serve them. Mr President! Some experts have pointed out that the report is very urban, which is a very bad direction for sustainable development. The experts also criticised the report on the lack of an economic impact assessment, among other things. It is not surprising because, according to its ideology, the current state administration sees no problem with the state's debt. For ideological reasons, the report also mentions climate action and low levels of development funding as Finland's biggest challenges. Nor does it sound very reasonable — that is, climate measures that have been the biggest fraud in the history of the world before the corona scam. The opinion of the Committee on Administrative Affairs has also dealt with the issue of problematic immigration, and this report is gratifyingly well taken into account. The Committee on the Future also takes note of differing opinions and stresses the need for an open debate. The committee therefore points out that it is often not a question of who is wrong and who is right, but of various alternative perspectives and priorities, and that Finnish civil society must be able to hold an open debate. In any case, our culture of conversation needs to be developed in a more appropriate direction so that those who think in another way are not immediately demonised, as is very easy to do today. Mr President! Finally, the Committee on the Future encourages positive action because, according to the report, intimidation is not the way forward for sustainable development. Quite hopeful is that overall message from the committee at this time, where people are being guided with fear. And the world situation today and the current outlook for development certainly do not provide anything but chaos for the future. Let me put it bluntly: the world is at war, so we are living in World War III. A large part of the population has already turned on the emergency brakes by supporting the VKK movement, one of the main tasks of which is to remove Finland from the ongoing global madness. Paasikivi-Kekkonen-line is the future line by which Finland will be rebuilt for the benefit of us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u62	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u63	Madam President! The report by the Committee on the Future examines a number of critical views expressed by experts on Agenda 30. The report does not take sufficient account of systemic changes and conflicts in the SDGs. According to experts, the economic feasibility of the objectives has also been overlooked. The Government's proposal has unfortunately often lacked overall thinking and impact assessments. A good example of the government’s rash action in the name of sustainable development is the accelerated shutdown of peat production. Peat production has fallen so drastically that even our security of supply is under threat, even though it had to be secured. Peat is replaced by imported energy, which is not necessarily sustainable. At the same time, production of domestic growing substrates and bedding has been compromised. EU taxonomy is also under discussion, which determines what kind of investments are environmentally sustainable. Taxonomy is problematic in many ways, particularly in terms of forestry. At least three species of wood should be grown in forests and none should be less than 20%. Ten per cent of Finns own forests, so this taxonomy has a major impact. Commissioner McGuinness visited Finland and assured us of the preservation of the national sovereignty of our forests. True, his remarks did not fully convince and did leave a state of uncertainty as to whether this would happen. Madam President! The objectives of sustainable development in Finland and elsewhere are linked to the objectives of the European Union. In this context, we must talk about the EU's planned climate fund. The fund would amount to 72.2 billion, or a quarter of the amount of money to be collected for the planned emissions trading. The largest beneficiaries would be Poland, 17.6%, France, 11.2, Italy, 10.8, Spain, 10.5%, and Finland would receive a maximum of around half percent. Finland would pay 1230 million to the fund, and we would get 387 million back, which means more than 800 million would come into the coat again. In the name of solidarity, of course, it is a condition that we still have to invest the same 387 million in our own emissions trading in order to get the same amount of our own money back from the EU. The total emissions trading is four times greater, that is to say less than EUR 300 billion, and so our share would be around EUR 4.8 billion, which is likely to only bring back the crumbs. Mr President! Where are we going now? After all, there is now a Social Fund which supports those whose living costs are increasing most as a result of climate action. The aid is therefore targeted at the so-called poor citizens, whose energy costs are too high in terms of income. We have a comprehensive social security system that takes into account energy poverty in practice. The countries of southern Europe do not have a system that works as well; that is, in Italy, France and Spain, people are on average more wealthy than we do, but they lack a social system that works as well as we do here. Once again, this proposed Social Fund is punishing us for a good, functioning system. The EU Social Fund means that in practice the EU will play a role in the social policies of different countries, which have traditionally been under national control, and this must be the case in the future. It cannot be possible for Finnish taxpayers to continue to have to support other countries, first by means of a recovery instrument — we have decided to go ahead and give more time to the crisis banks in southern Europe — and now we are going to support the poor in rich European countries. After all, the situation is totally unsustainable. Here again, we are forgetting our own country. We cannot act as an EU social office, even in the name of any kind of solidarity. People cannot be taxed indefinitely, and cheap loan money is not available forever. In the name of emissions trading, citizens are being unduly punished. This is not the EU the people of Finland want. We are being robbed now, and, as Minister Saarikko did last week very closely in the government's operating model, we have already introduced the children's piggy banks. At least I don't want to take this message to the children and grandchildren myself. In the name of emissions trading, therefore, a new fund-raising system will be created, which will be paid for by the people in the name of solidarity, and this Social Fund will be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u64	Congressman Kinnunen is gone. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u65	Mr President! For some people, the economic burden of sustainable development measures is quite great. Let us hope, then, that the future will provide better and cheaper means. For many, life is a constant struggle to worry about the next day and the next week, not about the coming decades and centuries. Many changes towards more sustainable consumption are also a major investment. The state must, of course, help and become involved in the costs, which, fortunately, has already been done. Although inequality in Finland is smaller on a global scale, few of us have financial resources to buy an electric car or a new heating system in our home. So it is also good to remember that sometimes the most sustainable development is to use up the old one. Many sustainable development measures are in a hurry or have run out of time. However, it must be possible to implement these measures fairly. The main theme of Agenda 30 is that no one should be allowed to stay on the road. Extreme poverty must be eradicated while taking care of the environment. It is also impossible to leave man and the economy out of the equation of sustainable development. Suppression is a virtue, but sometimes it is worth living in moderation. The dream of a more economically secure future is part of humanity. President! It is important for the city centre that people are allowed to choose their place of residence and that Finland as a whole is involved in development. Globally, we need to focus on basics, that is, clean food, clean water and clean energy. From the point of view of sustainable development, the Finnish euro may well be used abroad. In particular, Finnish education exports and forest expertise could play a much bigger role. President! I'm confident we'll get through this, too. Sometimes we make progress, and sometimes there's a setback. Most of us recognize and recognize the facts, and none of us escape them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u66	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u67	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Agenda 2030 handlar ju om de globala målen för hållbar utveckling, och rai har det kommit fram väldigt många synpunkter kring på vilket sätt det auri berör oss allihopa. Det finns en global samsyn kring att vi inte kan fortsätta leva på samma sätt som vi har gjort tidigare. Det krävs åtgärder som ska ska sk, och som redan sker och har skett på alla nivåer. Det sker både globalt, nationalellt, communalt men också i hemmen, i företagen. Kommunerna har en valdigt viktig roll i den bullheten, och jag vet att det i många kommuner just nu funderas kring just hållbarhetsstrategisterier. Bland gives i min hemkommun i Malax godkände vi vår hållbarhetsstrategia i måndags. Det har blivit en naturlig del av vår discussion, det arv med Agenda 2030, aven om vi kanske inte använder begrepet 2030, utan vi pratar om hållbarhet i stanlet. Det handlar också, precis som framgick ox, om dels att hjälpa internet i Finland men också att kunna hjälpa utanför vårt land.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u68	Irade fru talman! Vi ärver inte Jorden av våra föräldrar, utan vi lånar den av våra barn. Det är är ett känt ordspråk som för mig har betett ännu mer sedan jag själv blev förläder för för första gången förra året. Vi debatterar rai i dag statsrådets redogörelse för Agenda 2030 Mot ett klimatneutralt valfärdssamhälle, och det tar fasta på de 17 globala mål som FN har fattat för vägen till ett hållbart samhalle. Jag vill tacka framtidsutskottet och deras ordförande Joakim Strand för ett mycket fint arbete i riksdagen med riksdagens svar på regeringens redogörelse. Det är en ödesfråga, inte bara för Finland, utan för hela mänskligheten. Vi måste säkerstalla att vi inte lever över våra tillgångar samt också säkerstalla att vi når våra klimatmål så att också kommande generale kan bo och förvalta jorden både i Finland och i världen som Helen. [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : Översättning. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u71	Thank you. Congressman Kettunen is gone. Congressman Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u72	Mr President! It will not be possible to solve the major, complex and multi-dimensional problems of the world without a comprehensive approach to sustainable development. The UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development will lay the foundations and objectives for a just, sustainable and better tomorrow. Several important and ambitious goals of sustainable development have been successfully approached throughout the world in the 2010s. For almost two years, however, the corona pandemic, which has shaken the world, has halted this favourable development and is threatening, with its effects, the achievement of all sustainable development goals in Finland and the world. As a result of the pandemic, inequalities have increased and gender equality has deteriorated and learning outcomes have been affected. Extreme poverty is now increasing for the first time in 20 years. As a result of the Koronapandemia, there has also been a negative impact on the stability and security of the countries themselves, as well as on the development of human rights and democracy. We do not need to look far for these examples, but there are also Member States in the European Union where the rule of law and democracy are deteriorating. Mr President! It is important to remember that the corona will not allow mankind to forget other major challenges, such as climate change, natural disaster and global inequality. Despite the interest rate, long-term work to achieve the SDGs must continue. In the midst of the crisis, too, a better world must be sought and built. We have less than ten years to achieve these objectives. As again demonstrated by the Glasgow Conference on Climate Change, global political will, especially in the field of climate and nature issues, is difficult to put together. Nevertheless, we urgently need them. Hope should not be lost. Civil society and young people deserve to be commended for systematically reminding them of the seriousness and urgency of the situation. From the perspective of Agenda 2030, Finland's weaknesses, such as over-consumption of natural resources, are not addressed with the seriousness they deserve. We live on one ball, within the limits of which action is the lifeblood of all life. Success in environmental goals is a prerequisite for success in other goals — but also an opportunity to export sustainable Finnish solutions to the world. Mr President! For this reason, it is good to bring up a more positive point of view, the carbon handprint, alongside the carbon footprint. Increasing the carbon handprint creates huge opportunities for Finnish companies, business and other actors. As world countries tighten their climate targets, demand for clean solutions is growing globally. For example, China, USA, Japan, South Korea, South Africa and Canada have recently announced new, more stringent climate targets. To achieve these goals, they will need a lot of new solutions. According to some estimates, half of the world’s total production is already made in countries that are committed to carbon neutrality. This development will create a huge market for clean solutions in the near future. Finnish companies have a good chance of accessing this market. We have a lot of high-level expertise and we should stick to it. However, Finnish companies need support in increasing their carbon footprint. Finland’s position on the international climate export market will be resolved by today’s political decisions. Getting clean solutions to the growing market is about the future of our export-driven economy. From the perspective of the future of the welfare society, it is important that our companies start developing clean solutions and increasing their carbon footprint by exporting them to the world. Mr President! As Chairman of the Development Policy Commission, I cannot help overemphasizing the important objectives of the Agenda 16 and 17 on peace and global partnership. From the point of view of the Global Partnership, the development funding targets — 0.7% of gross national income and 0.2% of LDCs — and the strengthening of the economic and resource base of developing countries and the coherence of the various policy measures are essentially part of that partnership. Although Finland's position in international comparison of sustainable development is at the forefront, it is precisely the level of our country's development cooperation funding that reduces investment. Finland also has a special role to play in upholding human rights,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u73	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u74	Mr President! It is good that there are good debates on the future of Europe across Europe. Agenda 2030 will certainly be a paper that will be able to align it, but I hope that the right things will be taken into account. At the moment, the economic policy of the European Union is based on a violation of the rules. Does it make any sense to have a European Union Treaty, which states that debt should be prohibited, cannot take on an eating debt to run the European Union? It has been agreed not to pay debts from other countries or to provide guarantees on the payment of debts. All of these are done. If an organisation goes down the road of knowingly breaking contracts and then pretending innocently that ‘premised’ was sure that one day it would end. I am not going to list examples, but everyone knows what that means. When, at the time, the Maastricht Treaty — 93 C.E. — came into force, it was precisely at the request of the small Member States that the debts of other countries are not paid and guarantees are not given, this resolution came because the EU, for the first time in its history, acquired fair political rights and then the right to handle more money. That's what these rules came for. What happened to them? They have wiped the bottoms of the trash basket — practically worthless today. I thought you said it was off limits, but it's not. When this corona virus hit Europe, I can well understand that the Commissioners of the Commission took the path that Winston Churchill once pointed out that ‘the good crisis is not supported without using’. Well, it was used and the first stimulus package was put up. After all, it is strange when it was claimed to be a stimulus package, even though at the time when the rules were drawn up there was no information about the corona, but the crisis only happened at such a good time that it could, as it were, be connected to its side. There were other grounds than this pandemic itself. The pandemic has been well treated, and there is no way to blame it. Of course, we all remember, in our recent memory, that when we ordered various supplies, breathing masks and so on from Europe through the Union, no matter what happens. The goods were delayed for Finland. Why? Because they were taken over by the large European countries without anyone asking. Your mouth is closer to the bag every day. Let's get this guy out of here so he doesn't get it, 'cause I need it. This makes one wonder whether European cooperation will have a future if morals are at this level. Of course, Europe must combat climate change, that is right, but we must recognise the facts. Now we have done such a trick that Finland has calculated emissions that do not exist, and emissions have been exaggerated and sinks have been underestimated. If we accept it once and for all one day, we will give out money with false information from this country. Now I feel like I have to pay for the climate funds and all kinds of billions of dollars. Let's just pay it off, but the person who did it must at the same time show us where the money is going to be collected. The current expenditure, where money is pushed into and out of the country and everything is taken into account, cannot go on for long. I say next year is definitely the last on that front. After that, we have to find some sense in this country. The European Union is not obliging us to take any coercive measures. We still have an independent state that carries out fiscal policy, economic policy and social policy independently within the framework of the Accession Treaty. These policy areas do not belong to the EU, but even today in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we are dealing with this issue, which is strange, and we are going to hit the pockets of the Finns and impose extra taxes. Since the adoption of the first recovery package on 17 May, the European Union has changed its character enormously. There's no way anyone's gonna smile at this. Looking at this Chamber now, there are half a dozen representatives here, including the President, at the moment. One might say that this debate could be characterised by four letters: evvk, the young people of today. There are not many people who seem to be interested in this debate, but it is a question of the future of our continent. When the situation in Afghanistan went into crisis, as we all know, or now there is a Poland-Lithuania crisis, was there any muscle in Europe? I'm sure it wasn't. Afghanistan was elegantly managed by NATO soldiers, and the Finns were brought out healthy and alive. And what happens at the borders of Poland and Latvia? There, too, the visibility of the European Union is very thin. In other words, we Europeans are absent on important issues, but in these little cases, which are being attacked by small Member States, we are incredibly important. Finland has a good reputation by world standards, let us not lose it, but it is easy to lose its reputation at this rate to drive our own economy to its knees.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u75	Thank you. — Ledamot Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u76	Tack, ärade talman! Personally, I do not intend to extend this debate to the European Union, but that is what I shall say briefly: I think it was Mr Koskela and also Mr Hoskonen who said, at least between the lines, that it is extremely dangerous to go down the road to this social fund. As a friend of the European Union, I say that if, for example, France has to be recycled through a new fund, whether it was EUR 8 billion, because the total GDP of the French economy is about 3000 billion, then there will be plenty of drinks on its own to build a social security system or something, as the Nordic countries have done. I hope we don't go down that road. On behalf of the Committee on the Future, I would like to briefly thank the Committee on the Future for the very good group speeches and for the wide-ranging debate, in particular with regard to the message of hope and the focus on those issues on which we agree and where Finland can bring solutions in global arenas, be it agriculture, energy and environmental technologies or whatever, and bring solutions to the world together and not argue with one another in this small country, which in the final games is one part of Shanghai. Together — Tillsammans.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u77	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u78	Mr President! Now we are dealing with carbon neutrality, and if we look at this whole thing here, it is true that it is wrong to manage the whole if we Finns are about to have to pay Polish electricity bills. It doesn't really feel right for you. The money for development cooperation has been researched over the years and has not all worked as expected. They have not improved the local standard of living or have necessarily improved life greatly. Now should a pretty precise comb really screen these things for what good these have been, and each item will look quite separately at what has been of benefit and what has been achieved. We could certainly use the money left over here in the country. I have followed with concern that domestic peat production is being made the worst — and has already been done. That is really worrying. And another thing that has been made the worst of the climate seems to be food production. After all, in Finland we have to have food production just for the sake of security of supply. I wonder, then, what calculations usually count it if you think that food imported from abroad would be more ecological? It's not that. Here we have heard talk about food production, just the proper ones. Yes, domestic food and local food are certainly always better in terms of ecological relations than imported food. This collapse in peat production is actually quite worrying. Helsingin Sanomat reported in November that peat production has collapsed and peat is no longer produced enough to ensure security of supply. This too is something to be concerned about. Domestic peat has been a very important source of energy when it comes to security of supply. I'm sure the Security of Supply Agency is also concerned about this. Peat has also been a good bedding platform on the animal side and a growing medium. If you think that what really happens to peat is what seems to happen, how will it be: How will security of supply be ensured, and how will we get bedding for animals, what about this garden thing? We must also be concerned about how to get tomatoes, cucumbers and salads from national versions in the future. However, peat is still needed in the future. If you think about Russia and the Baltics starting to plan for an increase in peat production when there is enough demand, it's like a job for fools if Finland starts importing peat from the Baltics, even if we can produce it ourselves. Somehow it feels like the whole thing is very badly controlled,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u79	Thank you. — Representative Kausto is absent. — Mr Heikkinen, Ms Hannakaisa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u80	Mr President! The solutions to curb global warming are and are growing in a Finnish country. Forests must also be able to be used sustainably in the future while at the same time taking care of biodiversity. As Minister of Finance Saarikko has said, forests belong to us Finns, they are not the decision of the EU Commission. However, forests, natural resources and domestic food are not just climate issues. It is also a question of security of supply, as has also been well mentioned in many of the speeches in this debate. In an uncertain world, we must have our own energy, food and other essentials. Globally, too, agriculture plays an important role in climate change in securing food supply and reducing hunger. Here too, Finland has enormous opportunities and also huge opportunities. For these reasons, our natural resources should not be museumed. That is why there must also be conditions for living in rural areas. Mr President! I would like to highlight another aspect of Finnish food supply and the food chain. It is not only sustainability, balance and justice that are at present very much at stake, starting with primary production and food producers, continuing to be processed and traded — in that the shares are not divided so that the one who does the most also gets the most, on the contrary — but the other important thing that this house and also our government supports and must pay attention to on the eve of the social welfare reform is welfare services. In this context, I am referring to this food dimension and the food supply in the municipalities. It cannot be the case that everything is centralised and that important work in the municipalities, as it were, is eliminated in the expectation of savings. In crisis situations, it is very important that every unit, every municipality, is able to ensure that the most fragile groups, the elderly and also the children, in particular, are fed. If this is left to only a few large centers far away, even hundreds of miles away, this will affect our security of supply. This needs to be taken into account and prevented from doing stupid things in the head. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u81	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen is absent. Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I will no longer expand this debate, but I would like to make a few additional points. In its report, the Committee on the Future drew attention to the fact that the report on Agenda 2030 has come a long way since the last time, and this is something to be commended for. In view of the report and in broader terms, Finland’s policy on sustainable development and sustainable growth is based on a broad and multidimensional approach, and this diversity of actors and activities reflects the wide-ranging and long-term commitment of Finnish society to promoting sustainable development. At the same time, however, the risk of duplication of work, of siloing and of not making full use of the work done is increasing because we are acting in such a multidimensional and multi-functional way. In the future, the 2030 Agenda report should describe in even more detail how the OP will be attached to Finland's other sustainable development policies and how the information produced by the various stakeholders will be used in this Action Plan. I hope these greetings will be taken into account in the next report. And then a few words about the role of Finland, which has been discussed here today. Thank you all for an excellent debate, this has been a constructive and learning debate. Finland should also be a pioneer in the green economy and environmental technology, for example, because these will also bring us new jobs. Competition on the world market is fierce and we must be at the forefront. Otherwise, we'll be in the race. Finally, Mr President, it is true that we can be proud of our progress, because Finland has been among the top three countries in the annual estimates of the 2030 Agenda and even the best this year. However, Finland’s investment in 193 countries’ sustainability comparison falls to 135 when measuring the impact of our own actions on the ability of other countries to achieve these sustainability targets. This is partly due to our northern location — we need heating energy, and then we have long distances — but on the other hand our way of life is also linked to a global culture of mass consumption, and in this context Finnish consumption generates significant emissions and massive use of natural resources abroad. From this point of view, for example, the domestic food production highlighted by Mr Heikkinen is really important. In other words, we still have a great need for change and learning. The reduction of Finland's ecological debt must be continued by a variety of means and with faith in the future, but, in the light of this debate, we are broadly in agreement with the main issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u83	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu is absent. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u84	Mr President! There can be sustainable development in Finland at all only if there are still Finns here in the future who are able to live, work and start a family so that there are Finnish people here for generations to come. In order to ensure this, we must also deal with these environmental issues with reason and responsibility. The environment must be taken care of, but it does not really make sense that we should be doing these climate measures in a very forward-looking way compared to our competitors, because in an open market economy, jobs are moving where they should be. If we make employment here in Finland and our employees too expensive because of taxation and environmental regulations, then we will lose those jobs and have no sustainable future. It is okay for me that we are pioneers in technology, that we produce environmentally friendly technology, environmental technology — even traditional environmental protection, wastewater treatment and similar things where Finns have knowledge — and we export it abroad and get revenue from it, but it no longer makes sense that we are paying for measures taken by other countries. In other words, these so-called fair transitions and similar things within the EU in practice mean that we are paying for the carbon neutralisation of Eastern Europe, and I am in no way in favour of them. Finland has already done quite a lot for its environment. We have already done these things in a forward-looking way, and it is not right that we should continue to do more because we have done our business properly. This is a bit of an EU custom that if someone has handled a matter properly, they just have to pay more. This is the case, for example, with this European Social Fund, that when these matters have already been handled correctly in Finland, we will have to pay for the fact that other countries have not done them right. That is simply not the case. At the EU Conference on the Future, where I represent the Finnish Parliament, I ended up with a working group on climate change, and there I took the floor to point out that Finland is a country of long distances with varying climates throughout the year, we need transport, we need energy and our main natural resources and raw material for the wood industry is forest, and these are the issues. These are our living conditions, which we cannot compromise on in the future, even on the basis of environmental regulations. And the fact that these environmental measures are justified from the perspective of Finns and are accepted by Finns requires fair treatment of our direction in that we are free to choose our own forest resources and our natural resources by no means socialised for the benefit of anyone else or to fill other carbon sinks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u85	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u86	Mr President! A couple of things were overlooked in my previous speech: First of all, when we work together in Europe, when Agenda 2030 is certainly geared towards the welfare of the whole world, it is worth remembering that small Finland, for example, cannot solve this global climate crisis. It's completely impossible. In my opinion, the only right course of action is for us to be able to use our industry to build good solutions to combat climate change. Our package is fairly clean. It still saddens me that the underestimation of carbon sinks and excessive emissions have led to the fact that not all carbon sinks, for example, have been counted for the benefit of Finns. Can this nation afford to pay some funds at the same time as we have a huge shortage in this country for a great many things? There are many people who are in distress where access to health care is very difficult, people who are about to live from hand to mouth. At the same time, we're slapping money out of the country. For example, this stimulus package, the social package, extends the powers of the European Union to regions which do not belong to it. This is where we, in this room, talk about this being a great thing. With recovery package one, we paid money here and there, even for countries that are ten times richer than Finland. This can't be happening. When you look at, for example, the state of Finnish food in this country at the moment: We have agriculture in such distress, which has never been seen in Finland since the war. We are in a situation where most of the farms are on the verge of almost bankruptcy, people are in a situation of need, desperate, whether the farm will be able to continue production in a year's time. At the same time, huge quantities of foreign food are imported into Finland, while antibiotic residues, various growth hormones used in foreign products and heavy metals and so forth are consumed. Where's our national feelings? Finland’s emissions from global emissions are just over one thousandth. Yet, in this Chamber, we feel that we are solving the problems of this world. It's not gonna be solved, by the way. We must make sure that Finns in this country, within the borders of this country, have good lives. Only a country that keeps its own affairs in order can help a neighbor, but if we run ourselves under a huge debt... Think, every representative of the Finnish Parliament, that if the interest rate rises by 2 percentage points on that world market, what will happen to us? Well, I'm sure it's gonna be bad. This kind of debt-taking can't go on for much longer. Yet it is only when in this Parliament you listen to the ministers' speeches or to the representatives' speeches that you should take more. If this sort of hurricane policy in this country does not stop, then this country will end badly. I hope, Mr President, that reason will be found and that we will sometimes look at the affairs of our own citizens. At the same time, many others will be helped when we are able to be fine ourselves so that we can help others.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u87	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u88	Mr President! Climate issues, carbon issues are now under discussion, and Finland's competitiveness will inevitably become one thing and also concern for domestic food and local food. There is now a major regional reform, a social reform, and that does not necessarily go well, because there is a lot of legislation that goes unnoticed, and we must also consider whether local food is really going to be the victim of this reform. Hundreds and thousands of agreements will be renewed in the ongoing reform. In the area of regional reform, food policy is also in turmoil when social, health and elderly matters are transferred to the new administration. At the same time, the reform will revolutionise public food supply. If the municipality has previously decided to favour local food, what will the new regional councils do? It remains to be seen how regional councils value the position of local food in Finland. And what's going to happen in the competitions for local food? What if a mere price, a mere price, is chosen as a criterion for competitive tendering? When planning the war in the first place, there was often a debate about cost control. Or is the new regional council perhaps stressing that in its competitions it takes on a big role in local food and homeliness? Acquisition skills go up to a big, big role. What will be eaten in the elderly care units, what about hospitals and wards? Are entrepreneurs in the region supplying food, or is food mainly imported from abroad? Helsinki no longer offers meat at city events. Does the Helsinki phenomenon also spread to welfare areas in other regions, or does the new regional council perhaps value the Finnish meat producer in your region? Future health policy makers will be elected, but the attitude of decision-makers to entrepreneurship will also be of great importance. Too little has been said about the impact of the wars on companies in their region and on different agreements in general. Competition and procurement expertise should not be underestimated in Finland's biggest reform. It is important to maintain Finland’s competitiveness, although the EU is constantly pushing its most bizarre guidelines, threatening Finland’s competitiveness. Will the Finnish elderly be given the opportunity to eat potatoes and meat products from the Finnish producer in the future, or will there be vegetables from abroad? Life and politics in particular are full of value choices. I think it is very important to maintain the competitiveness of our country. Domestic food and Finnish producers are relevant to Finland, and this should not be forgotten by anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u89	Thank you. — Representative Ollikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u90	Irade the Talman! Då vi pratar om Agenda 2030 kan det öppnas ur många, många olika perspectiveiv. Här har det bland let komitt fram att det ska vaa socialt och ecologist och ekonomiskt rättvist, också regionalt, då vi tittar ur ett finländskt perspectiveiv. Och då vi diskaterar kring till exempel klimatåtgärder i vårt land blir det latt en paradox — man vill hit en stor skillnad mellan stad- och landsbygd. Själv är jag från landsbygden, där jordbruket är en jätteviktig del eftersom vi ska producera mat så att vi klarar oss, och ra vill jag lyfta fram den taltur som colleague, ledamot Heikkinen höll på ett väldigt känslomässigt och bra sätt kring vikten av att använda finländsk mat. Stort tag för det.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u91	Mr President! There has been a global agenda for sustainable development in this Chamber for Agenda 2030, and I believe there has been a lot of good debate here. Unfortunately, I myself had to attend the final meeting of the parliamentary committee elsewhere, but the recording is fortunately to be listened to and seen later. But let me say that in the Committee on the Future, I have been privileged to do my job and it has been very, very interesting to deal with this agenda for sustainable development. We heard a large number of experts there and we had good discussions, and I would really like you to read this report and our committee's comments there at the end, because there is a lot of something that I would say is lasting and a good thing that could also indicate the years to come and the governments to come, and we would like that to happen. I would like to raise a few points about the comments made by our committee. First of all, we hope to ensure that, when these issues of sustainable development are discussed in the various committees, panels, panels, panels, round tables and research and working groups and also assess the aspects of this action programme, they would be dealt with as a genuine whole and would be genuinely taken into account in those practical policies. And then, when we think of municipalities and future regions, we would like to see the role of municipalities and public procurement being strengthened as a driving force for sustainable development and to develop the link between sustainable development work and the Ministry of Finance and municipal policy work by the Prime Minister's Office, because in this respect these acquisitions and their importance in various parts of Finland — which decisions are also made in relation to procurement — are very much and far affected. We are still underlining the phenomenon-based approach, the comprehensive assessment, where interdependencies are also considered, and we are calling not only for quantitative indicators to be used but also for the introduction of different qualitative indicators, particularly indicators that describe progress and the analysis of the various obstacles to sustainable development and the possibilities for tackling them. Evaluation must be carried out both ex ante and ex post, and the results of the evaluation must also be genuinely taken into account in the various policies and also in the preparation of legislation. — Mr President, I shall now take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u92	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u93	Mr President! The UN Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 and its objectives also have an essential role to play in Finnish agriculture. The existence of domestic food production is extremely important not only for the availability of high-quality and clean food but also for the security of supply in our country. However, the overly ambitious environmental policy pursued by the government disciplines our farms in relation to many other countries because it increases production costs. It's right out of the producer's bank account. This guilt of producers, which has recently even been read in the press, goes far too far. At this rate, the farms end one another. This is the situation that producers now have, and every party should be extremely concerned about. At least the Finns are. On the profitability of domestic food production: It is now, profitability, at stake. The costs are growing all the time. There'll be too small a slice for primary production. Trade and many others take too much of it. At least 25% of the producer's bank account bag has narrowed in the last year. If this were the case with any other professional group, Mannerheimintie would probably be full of protestors, the whole Mannerheimintie. So the situation is very serious. It is anything but carbon-neutral to drive food to Finland from the world when our own production is being driven down. If we look at the food production of Finns, which is very ethical in relation to many other countries — we produce clean food — it would therefore also be useful outside our borders when exports are being made on its behalf. So this support for our food production would indeed benefit other countries as well. Nature values, forest management: Finns appreciate them and know how to manage them. And if you think of the recent debate: Helsinki said that no more meat eating at events. That's the wrong policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u94	Thank you, time. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u95	Mr President! First, agriculture and food production. Finland has a lot of expertise and, for example, a very growing and successful plant protein cluster, which means that it has potential. It's worth living with the change. But one of the things I wanted to highlight about Finland's own challenges with the 2030 Agenda indicators is domestic violence and violence against women. In Finland, domestic violence is poorly identified and recorded in health care. Studies show that Finland is the second most violent country in the European Union for women. Nearly one in two Finnish women has experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. Corona pandemic has further increased the risk of violence as the restrictive measures affected the search for aid and social relations. The international situation is also not good. According to a study by the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, every third woman in the Union has experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. In Europe, this means about 62 million women. In addition, attitudes have become tougher. Turkey, for example, withdrew from the Istanbul Convention, which is the Council of Europe Convention to prevent and eliminate violence against families and women. In addition, in many countries abortion laws have become stricter and have weakened women's basic and human rights. Indeed, the fundamental and human rights of women are not always obvious. The Anti-gender movement is getting stronger and the courage to maintain equality, women and girls is needed. Mr President! ‘None-waste’,‘leave noonebehind’,is the principle of ‘Agenda2030’ which needs to be examined in Today's world political events are dramatically challenging this even within Europe. Consistency between the various policy actions, the identification of the boundaries of global sustainability and the ambition to achieve the 2030 Agenda objectives, I call on all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u96	Thank you. — Mr Heikkinen, Ms Hannakaisa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u97	Mr President! First of all, a few words about this brief discussion in relation to the support services for the future social welfare areas and these local food supplies. I could say to Mr Reijos that fortunately we in the future welfare area of northern Savo cannot go worse than Kuopio, his municipality of residence, because a few years ago, when the operators in the industry measured the authority of the various municipalities in Finland in local food procurements, Kuopio was in a hurry and Kiuruvesi in my own municipality held the better head, i.e. he was Finland's number one, and that is why we in Kiuruvesi really have genuine concern that the brand that is important to us uses local food is not destroyed or taken away in the context of this reform. Then, in connection with what I said earlier — and this debate has taken place here on a wider scale — Finland really needs to play its part in curbing global warming, but these proportions must be correct. If anything matters, then the fact that the big countries have decided in Glasgow, the United States and China, that they are cooperating, and I am raising the role of China, for example. China’s climate emissions, climate impacts, are 450 times the size of Finland’s emissions. The fact that we here are using expressions that the children of the landowners feel guilty of the number one climate change on the planet is so distorted: proportions are lost if, in this situation, we destroy our own valuable, clean, ethical Finnish food production. Making decisions in the right direction: clean, domestic, renewable up in Finland and polluting, foreign, non-renewable down. There it is. We make the right, impressive decisions and not, in a way, green-washed coal and then destroy Finnish primary production and also Finnish forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u98	Thank you. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u99	Mr President! Mr Heikkinen made a very good speech on this point, and we in the Committee on the Future have also spoken in favour of clean nature and its potential and in this regard in favour of this domestic clean food production, so that we would not just be self-sufficient in food production, but that it could perhaps be a very big export article for us in the future. In this context, it is perhaps appropriate to continue with these proposals for decisions of the Committee on the Future, one of which is related to studies and development efforts. After all, Finland is a welfare state where research, development and good innovations and their implementation have largely been successful. In our proposal for a decision, therefore, we propose that we increase research and development spending to 4% of GDP. It has been discussed, it is still at the stage, but it should be in sight. We are still underlining that teachers' skills should be updated according to the training needs of different sectors, and here too we should increase future education in education and student guidance, starting with the training and further training of teachers and instructors. Of course, we also need sufficient resources for this. Then perhaps as a new one, I would say, in the Committee on the Future, when we have dealt with this sustainable development programme, and, in fact, in the past, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's proposal has become the use of art and its various methods of solving difficult problems, in conjunction with scientific, economic and public actors. The proposed is just like this in the design of the creative road map. It's pretty amazing that when such methods, such as methods of creativity and art, are used, then the brain can start to activate completely new areas and even difficult, complicated, complex problems in another field may suddenly find new perspectives and new solutions. We in the Committee on the Future do have real experience of these things. Sometime later, we'll be able to tell you more about them. Then, overall, cooperation, regional cooperation between companies, organisations, various associations and educational institutions, is also very important in this process of promoting sustainable development, and I would say that it is such an essential part of the fact that without extensive cooperation we will not achieve results.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u100	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u101	Honorable Speaker! Good speeches have been made here today. Indeed, this Agenda 2030 is on the agenda for a carbon-neutral welfare society. The objectives are appropriate, but as has been demonstrated here in the debate, there has been a debate on pure domestic food production, and I would like to remind you of this in my own speech. Mr Harkimo raised this moral post in this debate. He used the concept of ‘moral posting’ on this decision by the City of Helsinki that meat and milk products Many Finnish farms are currently fighting for survival. Agricultural entrepreneurial income has been forecast to decrease by 20% this year and by 8% next year. They're prognosis. We must help these facilities quickly now. And now, after the summer — it has been quite a dry summer, the harvests have been worse than average — there are some areas where this year only 30% less than the average harvest has been achieved. In better surviving areas, about one fifth of the average harvest has been frozen. Regional and spatial variation is very high. And in this kind of situation the decision makers of our capital — and here is a long line of Congressman Zyskowicz present, so I'm sure he can also comment on it — when the City of Helsinki actually makes this kind of decision that Finnish meat and Finnish milk are not used at representative events, so what is this signal for Finnish milk and meat producers? I have already suggested that, with Valio’s head office here in the capital region, whether or not it should now move its head office as a countermeasure out of here. Of course, no one wants it, but we have to make sense of it now. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u102	Thank you. — I note that this debate has been going on for several hours, and I would ask that we focus on this very subject. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u103	Mr President! I would like to raise a few points on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on the Future. There we also propose that the Government make such an innovative, bold, national knowledge-based and positive handprint programme. After all, we are always talking about negative things, and we are talking about carbon footprints, and we have seen how many young people, for example, are very anxious and shoulder to shoulder with great weight when they talk about these things, so we could have this kind of positive handprint program, and we would do this in cooperation with industry to develop sustainable technologies and solutions and better regulation in a multidisciplinary way and to promote sustainable, job-creating growth. In other words, positive action is also taking place in this Positive Handprint programme. We also propose that the Government should promote the mental resilience of citizens by enabling stakeholders and citizens to participate in the planning, implementation and evaluation of solutions in such a way as to ensure that the silent people of society, such as children, young people, immigrants, disabled people and the elderly, are also included as active actors in the process of sustainable change. And here I would really like to include in our list, for example, farmers, producers there, because, as has been said many times, we need, each of us needs, food and we would like it to be close to produced, domestic clean food and also to ensure that these food producers are able and well-balanced with their work and livelihoods. Mr President! Just lastly, I would like to raise this final proposal for a decision by the Committee on the Future, which is to say that we hope that the Government will say the Agenda 2030 action programme and other similar programmes that guide sustainable development policies, and in particular those of citizens and stakeholders involved in decision-making processes, in a form of hope. The basis for decision-making is open information and value debate on both the opportunities and threats of sustainable change, but positive examples from the world and from home close to people's everyday lives will inspire the most needed change. In other words, a sustainable future must be made human-sized and human-looking. That is the end of the report by our Committee on the Future of Europe on the Agenda 2030 Agenda, and I think that this is a signpost for each of us. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u104	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u105	Honorable Mr. Speaker! I don't want to prolong the conversation. I would just like to say to this end that, when this Agenda also aims to eradicate poverty, I have said it before, but I would like to remind you that a strong state treasury, i.e. a strong state economy, is the best friend of a poor person. When Mr Tanus rightly said that we need to make a human-looking, human-sized policy, I would like to remind you once again of the doctrines and the idea of humanity of Santeri Alkio, that every policy must be focused on man, and then a regionally, economically and socially just policy will be implemented when people are placed at the heart of all policymaking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u106	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 15/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u107	Thank you, Mr President. This report by the Committee on Finance is about accepting the government's proposal to increase the tobacco tax. Naturally, the government's proposal for an increase has been accepted, and I am not directly proposing any change here either, but I would like to say that I believe that the tobacco tax should be substantially increased. I think that a good principle in taxation is to tax less of what we want more, that is to say less of work and entrepreneurship, for example, but to tax more of what we want less, such as smoking. They want it less. And although the price of tobacco in Finland is not at all low, it is not Europe's top priority either. In Ireland, for example, there is a much stricter tax on tobacco, i.e. higher tobacco prices. In my opinion, a brisk increase in tobacco tax should be made in Finland, much brisker than what the previous government did and this government is now doing, although of course the direction is the right one. Such a much more substantial increase in tobacco tax, which would raise the price of a pack of cigarettes somewhere where a pack of 12 euros would certainly discourage young people from starting smoking, would make adults more vigorous in trying to get rid of tobacco, and in the longer term, in addition to these tax revenues, which of course do not increase as much as the tax will increase, this would also result in considerable savings in health care expenditure. In other words, I will encourage the government — governments — to increase the price of tobacco considerably in the future. In my opinion, this is not a class struggle issue, although Mr Kontula in his Little Porvarit book has told us that this kind of tobacco control policy is a class policy, because we unfortunately know that people with lower incomes smoke more than people with good income. Mr President! In this context, I would like to draw attention to the reform of the tobacco law which is currently in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. At least I do not know that it would have been completed there, and I hope that the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health who are present will say hello if they are present. In the debate on the referral to the law, I drew attention to the fact that it lacks a simplification of the process of banning balcony smoking. I appeal to the committee to take this matter on board in connection with the examination of the tobacco law. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u108	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Audit, TrVM 3/2021 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! In its report, the Committee draws particular attention to the following themes: the implementation of fiscal policy during the period of the interest rate pandemic, low interest rates and debt sustainability, the role of fiscal surveillance and the prudential regulation of banks. According to experts consulted by the committee, the government's economic policy measures during the corona crisis have been in the right direction both in terms of timing and dimensions. However, experts believe that fiscal policy should be tailored to the cyclical situation in the future. The Committee welcomes the government's efforts to curb the negative economic and employment impact of the corona pandemic. The Committee also believes that fiscal policy should be geared to the cyclical situation and that the multi-annual planning of public finances should be restored in order to create the conditions for stabilising the debt ratio. Let me now turn to low interest rates and debt sustainability: According to the report of the Audit Office, long-term debt sustainability cannot be based on current low interest rates, although interest payments on public debt have been falling for a long time. According to experts consulted by the Committee, adjustment measures are needed to stabilise the debt ratio unless concrete structural reforms to boost economic growth, boost employment and increase the productivity of public finances are achieved. According to experts, the interest rate crisis is a good indication of the need to reduce the debt ratio in good times. In the event of a possible new crisis, it will be easier to get into debt when the debt level is not already high. The Government’s sustainability roadmap aims to stabilise debt in relation to the size of the economy by the end of the decade. The Committee considers it important to clarify and develop the sustainability road map. The Committee believes that the sustainability road map should be concrete and that the government should also have a clear plan for future crises. The Committee also considers it important that economic and fiscal policy is designed to take account of the uncertainties of economic development and the risks associated with future interest rate developments. The committee believes that attention should be paid in particular to long-term planning. The major problems, such as the active fight against climate change and the sustainability gap caused by ageing populations, require parliamentary solutions over the parliamentary term. Next, on the role of fiscal surveillance: Finland operates two independent bodies that assess the government's financial and economic policies, the National Audit Office and the Economic Policy Evaluation Council. Since 2013, the National Audit Office has had a statutory supervisory role under the fiscal law as a result of the strengthening of European economic policy coordination. For its part, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council was set up by Government Decree in 2014 for an independent assessment of the objectives and means of economic policy. The statutory budgetary control function of the Audit Office is more limited than the independent economic policy assessment function of the Economic Policy Review Council. However, the tasks are partly overlapping, so the Committee draws attention to the appropriate use of expert resources in a small country such as Finland. My final theme is the prudential regulation of banks: The committee sought to clarify the importance of the ECB's profit-sharing recommendations in 2020 for the solvency of Finnish banks. The committee also explained how this guidance has been followed in Finland. According to the assessment by the Financial Supervisory Authority, compliance with profit sharing recommendations has created an additional buffer for banks and, more generally, for the financial system as a whole in the event of a crisis. All banks under direct ECB supervision in Finland have followed the recommendations made by the ECB. The smaller Finnish banks under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority also fully complied with the recommendations of the Financial Supervisory Authority regarding the first non-profit distribution. The latest recommendation, which was adopted in December 2020 and called for extreme caution in the distribution of profits, was also followed by all Finnish banks except Aktia and Ålandsbanken. The committee has consulted representatives of both banks on their decision not to comply with the December 2020 recommendation. The important factor behind these banks’ decision is that it is important for both banks to be a reliable dividend payer and an interesting investment destination in the future. From a principle point of view, the committee considers that it is problematic and that the credibility of the supervisory system is undermined by the failure to comply with the recommendation issued by the supervisory authority. The Committee believes that the functioning and principles of the control system should be carefully examined. It should be clarified whether the recommendations made should be binding and to what extent bank-specific considerations, which take account of the bank's solvency, could be taken into account in the adoption of the recommendations. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u110	Thank you. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u111	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, for presenting the report. In my own speech, I would like to raise a few important points about the report and the committee's report. During the corona crisis, Finland has done very well internationally also in terms of economic indicators, and the report estimates that the government's economic policy measures are timely and justified. The report notes that the ratio of Finland’s public debt to GDP will increase significantly due to the interest rate crisis, but the debt ratio in relation to other EU countries is close to the EU average. The report notes that there is no immediate need to reduce the debt ratio rapidly, as this could lead to high social costs and economic growth. On the other hand, it may also be unnecessary for debt sustainability in an interest-rate environment within the current outlook. Low interest rates affect debt sustainability in such a way that public finances can maintain higher debt levels than before. So I saw in this Agency report, but after consulting the experts, the committee said that in good times a downward debt ratio should be sought in order to create room for manoeuvre for future crises. It is also important that economic and fiscal policy is designed to take into account the uncertainties of economic development and the risks associated with future interest rate developments. Long-term planning must also be taken into account, and the safeguarding of sustainable development and the active fight against climate change that we have had here in the past, as well as the ageing of the nation, require long-term parliamentary solutions that go beyond the parliamentary term. The road map for sustainable growth should also be specified, in particular with regard to employment measures, measures aimed at improving the efficiency of public finances and measures to stimulate growth. Mr President! The expert consultation revealed a different understanding of what should be addressed in the Audit Office's fiscal surveillance report. Some experts felt that the approach chosen by the Audit Office and the focus on general economic and employment policy were a good thing and some criticised this. According to critical views, the report should specifically include an analysis of fiscal legislation and its indicators and objectives, rather than a general economic policy assessment. The committee considers it justified that the Audit Office should also assess the implementation of the financial and economic policy. It is important to assess the decisions and measures taken in order to see whether it is possible to achieve the objectives set for fiscal policy at all. On the other hand, it is worth noting that there are currently two independent bodies in Finland that evaluate the government's financial and economic policies: the Audit Office and the Economic Policy Evaluation Council. There is a partial overlap of tasks and attention should be paid to the appropriate use of expert resources. Mr President! One last word on prudential regulation for banks. The expert hearing revealed that a couple of banks had failed to comply with the ECB’s December 2020 recommendation not to distribute dividends. The banks were financially sound and had carried out carefully reassessments and risk assessments prior to the decision on the distribution of dividends. However, the committee raised the question of whether non-compliance with the recommendations could undermine the credibility of the control system and whether such action could also provide an undesirable incentive for a larger number of players to deviate from the recommendations in the future. In order to answer these questions, the committee stated in its report that it would now be appropriate to clarify whether the recommendations made should be binding and to what extent bank-specific considerations, which take account of the bank's solvency, could be taken into account in the adoption of the recommendations. Hopefully this study will be carried out so that in the future everyone will have common rules of play. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u112	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TrVM 4/2021 by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u113	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Party Act contains binding provisions on the transparency of funding for parties and party associations. The aim is to increase transparency and confidence in political activities, improve voting turnout and prevent corruption and influence parties' activities on the basis of inappropriate ties. The Audit Office shall report annually to Parliament on its activities under the supervision of party funding. Parties, communities mentioned in the grant decision and party related communities are subject to control by the Audit Office. There's about 150 people to watch. Other party associations of around 6000 are not subject to control by the Inspectorate. The Office also supervises state aid as referred to in the party law. Nine parties represented in Parliament have been entitled to state aid in 2020. The Office supervises the support referred to in the Party Act, the declaration of expenditure and funding of the election campaign and party support. The notification obligation shall cover aid of a value of at least EUR 1500 and information on the providers of such aid. In principle, all payments received in the form of money, goods, services or other means of payment are considered to be aid. Only the performances specifically mentioned in the law do not constitute aid. A total of EUR 33.2 million has been declared in the notification register between 2011 and 2020. Support payments for 2019 were announced at EUR 4.3 million, which is the largest amount during the follow-up of party funding. A significant proportion of the notifications made in 2020, totalling EUR 1.6 million for previous years, was the result of audits carried out. In 2020 the Audit Office inspected all nine registered parties represented in the Parliament. In addition, six women's organisations and 34 parliamentary party districts were inspected by the Agency. A total of 49 inspections were carried out. Due to the interest rate situation, all checks were carried out by electronic means. According to the Agency, the up-to-date declarations of party funding after the additions are essentially correct and provide the relevant information on the aid received by the audited entities. The audits also revealed a number of cases where the beneficiary had not made up-to-date notifications of all the aid received. On the other hand, no subsidies were found in breach of party law restrictions. As in previous years, there are still shortcomings in the audit reports of auditors of supervised entities. In 2019 the amount of state aid under section 9 of the Party Act was EUR 29.4 million. As in previous years, the Agency pays attention to the lack of interpretation of the grant conditions for state grants and the lack of contractual procedures. The terminology of the State Aid Decision should also be clarified in order to ensure an unambiguous understanding of the use and allocation of the grant and to ensure that the State Aid Accounts are comparable. In previous reports, the Audit Committee has highlighted a number of development needs in relation to party funding and its monitoring. Among other things, these issues will be clarified in the ongoing work of the parliamentary working group. The work has been extended until the end of this year. The committee will await the proposals of the working group and the necessary legislative changes and will return to these issues when it discusses the reports of the Audit Office on the control of election and party funding. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u114	Thank you. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u115	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee has just said, the Committee on Audit has pointed out in several previous reports this need for development in the area of party funding and control, and this has also been mentioned in the Government Programme. In February 2020 a parliamentary working group has been set up to examine the development needs of electoral law, party law and electoral funding law, as well as, where appropriate, legislation on other political activities. However, the working group has not completed its work by the deadline and has now reached the end of this year. In its report, the committee once again states that we will be waiting for the working party's proposals for solutions and we will come back to this when we come back to the reports of the Audit Office on the control of election and party funding. I hope the work of the task force will finally be completed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u116	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 5/2021 by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided. A debate on the 11th and 12th issues will also be allowed in this context. — Presentation on all three issues, please, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u117	Mr President, representatives! I will present all three of these at once. In other words, first the Parliament’s auditors’ report on Parliament’s financial statements, annual report and accounting and management for 2020: The Audit Committee has consulted the Chairman of the Auditors, the Administrative Director of Parliament and the Internal Auditor of Parliament. The report by the auditors is yet again so-called clean, so that the auditors have nothing to comment on. The Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice. In its report, the committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use, as well as the costs of operations and their changes. The Audit Committee has not raised any specific questions with regard to Parliament, and the committee's opinion is therefore that Parliament has no objections to the report. Then, as a second, Parliament’s auditors’ report on the annual accounts, the annual report and the accounting and management of the Institute for Foreign Policy for 2020: The Audit Committee has consulted the Chairman of the Auditors and the Director of the Institute for Foreign Policy. The report by the auditors is yet again so-called clean, so that the auditors have nothing to comment on. The Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice. In its report, the committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use, as well as the costs of operations and their changes. The committee has not raised any specific questions with regard to the Institute for Foreign Policy. The Committee's opinion is therefore that Parliament has no comments to make on the report. Then, thirdly, the report of Parliament’s auditors on the annual accounts, the annual report and the accounts of the National Audit Office for the year 2020: The report on the financial management of the Committee's Audit Office was finalised in June 2021. The report dealt with the functioning of internal control and risk management, as well as compliance with principles of good governance and relevant provisions. The committee included in its report the results of the special audit carried out by Parliament's auditors in spring 2021. The Audit Committee has consulted, among other things, the Chairman of the Auditors, the Director of the Audit Office and the Planning Manager, as well as representatives of personnel organisations. The committee has considered it important to highlight in its report what the committee's remit and tasks are with regard to the Agency and what matters belong to the Agency itself. The National Audit Office operates in connection with Parliament and has been secured operational independence. The Audit Committee shall be responsible for the supervision of the financial management of the Agency and shall be accountable to Parliament for its use of public funds in accordance with the same principles as the Board of Directors shall be accountable to Parliament. However, the Committee's task of supervising the government's financial management does not include the operational management of VTV, which is the responsibility of the Agency itself. VTV therefore decides on its own work plan, on the allocation of its inspection activities and on the timing and method of carrying out the inspections. It is up to the Agency itself to correct the shortcomings in the management of the Agency's finances, and the committee will monitor the situation afterwards and assess whether the measures taken are sufficient. The main point of the Committee's report is that the audit report on the Audit Office is not clean, so to speak. In spring 2021, auditors carried out a special audit of travel, representation and procurement costs for the Director-General of the Audit Office and other senior management from 2020. The auditors also drew attention to the preliminary examination of the krp and the audit committee's report on the financial management of the agency. According to the audit report, it is necessary to develop the internal control, internal rules and guidelines of the audit agency and the approval procedures in the light of the pre-investigation and the ongoing report and the findings of the specific audit. The Committee welcomes the fact that development measures have been taken by the Audit Office to remedy these shortcomings. The aim is to ensure that the Agency’s policies are fully aligned with the provisions and guidelines generally applicable in the State administration. Among other things, the Audit Office intends to improve procurement skills, tighten travel practices, monitor the use of frequent-customers from missions and review procedures for authorising expenditure. The aim is also to allocate more resources to inspection and control work. An evaluation of the new management model is also ongoing in the Agency. The committee will monitor the progress of the development activities and the state of well-being of the Agency's staff in the future. For effective functioning, it is important for taxpayers to have professional and motivated staff in charge of the legality and regularity of the use of state funds, a culture of openness and respect for others, and good management of the agency. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u118	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u119	Mr President! I will briefly comment on all three reports. Firstly, as regards Parliament's financial statements, I would like to say that Parliament did well in the first year of the corona year and was able to change the procedures and adapt to exceptional circumstances without suffering the basic task. As a result of the interest rate, certain expenditures were undercut, and hopefully digitality will lead to a more permanent reduction in travel costs, for example. There were budget overruns due, among other things, to the acquisition of a camera surveillance system, but these overruns were all highly justified. Then on the work of the Institute for Foreign Policy: The international environment is changing very quickly and, it seems, is constantly accelerating. For example, there has been an increase in hybrid activity and the spread of disinformation. We now need global and national foresight and a continuous picture of the situation. In this work The research activities of the Institute for Foreign Policy are very important, and the Institute has again done this work in a very cost-effective way. And then again, on the activities of the National Audit Office: It is important that the roles of the various actors are understood correctly, i.e. the National Audit Office operates under the Constitution in connection with Parliament and has been guaranteed functional independence. The supervisory function of the Audit Committee does not include the operational management of the Audit Office or any other government agency, institution, ministry or state company. The Audit Committee examines the work of the Audit Office more than once a year when the reports submitted by the Agency to the Parliament as Parliament's Parliament for the preparation of the report are being discussed. At that time, the committee will have the opportunity to assess the work, conclusions and benefits of the Audit Office for parliamentary control of Parliament. It is up to the Agency itself to correct the shortcomings identified and raised in the financial management of the Committee's office, and the committee will follow up and assess whether the measures taken are sufficient. Development measures have been taken by the Audit Office following the report of the Audit Committee on the Agency's financial management and the special audit carried out by Parliament's auditors in spring 21. According to expert consultations, the aim is to ensure that the Agency’s policies are in full alignment with the provisions and guidelines generally applicable to the state administration in the future. The aim is, inter alia, to improve procurement skills, tighten travel practices, to regularly monitor the use of regular contact points from missions and to review procedures for authorising expenditure. An evaluation of the management model is also under way. In the future, the committee will monitor the progress of all the above-mentioned work on the Agency's development, and in addition:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u120	Thank you. — Representative Niemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u121	Thank you, Mr President. In brief on all three points: As chairman of Parliament's auditors, I would like to thank the Chairman and Vice-President of the Audit Committee for their excellent presentations and, as they mentioned, we have done very precise work on Parliament's audit and we, as auditors, have no comment on Parliament's audit. It is a so-called clean audit. Next, the audit report of the Institute for Foreign Policy: the same is true — we have nothing to say about it either. We have been following UPI's audit very closely throughout the year. And thirdly, the audit report of the State Audit Office: that is where we got in trouble when these possible shortcomings were made public. These possible shortcomings are still being dealt with, for example, in relation to the krp, but Parliament's auditors will also ensure that this special audit is carried out, so to speak, as a follow-up, i.e. we will make further checks to ensure that sufficient attention will be paid to this special audit and to the shortcomings that arise in it in the future in the functioning of the State Audit Office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u122	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, presentation, Mr Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u123	Mr President! There's a bill on the law to turn the Rescue Act into a law. This bill proposes a new Article 17a of the Rescue Act. , which would provide for a stove guard to be installed in dwellings of persons over 65 years of age and belonging to special groups with a view to reducing the incidence of fires. The stove watch would be mandatory in the apartments of these persons, but it would be possible to obtain support for the purchase of the equipment to cover costs. More specifically, the installation of a stove guard, the purchase aid, the person responsible and persons belonging to specific groups would be governed by a decree adopted by the Government. Mr President! In the light of this bill I have taken, I would like to state the following: Recently, numerous fires that claimed lives have shown that there is still much to be improved in the field of fire safety in Finland. There are more than 3,000 fires in Finland each year, where dozens of people die. The material damage caused by the pieces is also considerable. Most of the blocks of flats originate in the stove. It should be noted that, before the actual fire broke out, electrical equipment and other kitchen materials may become very dangerous gases that may prevent extinguishing or, in the worst case, have already been able to kill the people in the apartment. In particular, the opportunities for the elderly to act in such situations are very low. One of the objectives of the Government Programme is to enable elderly people to live in their own homes for as long as possible. In fact, more and more older people live in their own home during the last years of their lives, so it is important to pay attention to home security as well. Risks resulting from oblivion or other functional disturbances are increasingly occurring to elderly people living at home. A standard fire alarm can't stop a stove fire. The fire alarm only informs when the fire is starting or has already started. Using existing technologies, such fires could be prevented without high costs. The solution to preventing electrical fires is a system that, when detected, will cut the power from the device. Such hobs could be used to prevent much of the hobs. If such devices are made compulsory, at least for senior and special groups, they will make it possible to substantially reduce the number of fires and the number of people killed in them. The use of stove guards is becoming more common in many countries. In Norway, for example, hobs are mandatory in all new buildings. Also in the operational programme of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health ‘Safely all:Home and leisure accident prevention programme2021–2030’ isthe ‘continued reduction in the number of people killed by fire and Quote :‘Lisbon safety is improving,with the use of a more safereliance technology’. Mr President! Otherwise, it would also be important for all new dwellings to promote stove safety devices. On the basis of this, we propose that Parliament adopt the following legislative proposal: A new Article 17a would be added to the Act amending the Rescue Act, which would read as follows: ‘Steam watch. For persons over 65 years of age and belonging to special groups, a stove guard must be installed to prevent fires. Support will be granted for the purchase of equipment for groups over the age of 65 and special groups. More specifically, the installation of a stove guard, the purchase aid, the person responsible and persons belonging to specific groups are governed by a Government decree.’ — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u124	Congressman Reijone is gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u125	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Vestman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u126	Mr President! Freedom to victory. The bill proposes to amend Article 46 of the University Act so that in future the membership of the upper secondary school bill would be voluntary. The proposed amendment would remove compulsory membership of the Student Union, which would make it no longer compulsory for a university student to be included in the upper secondary school bill and pay its membership fee at the time of registration of the university’s presence. The compulsory membership of the Student Unions is an ancient relic. In the old universities of Europe, students were divided by nation. A compulsory membership was set up for the Turku Academy’s co-operatives, which was later accepted into the overtime billing process. For the freedom of association of students, compulsory membership is at least questionable. A university student is forced to belong to an organisation and pay its membership fee in order to be able to study. In return, the student is now mainly offered red-green world improvement projects by student unions, which have been implemented with student money. The freedom of association guaranteed by the Constitution and international treaties includes the right to belong or not to belong to an association. Obligatory membership, that is, the restriction on the freedom of association of students, has at one time been considered to be an acceptable fundamental right restriction because the matriculation schools have also carried out public administrative tasks. However, these tasks have changed. Mr President! Negative freedom of association means that membership of an association cannot be based on automatic membership directly determined by law. Freedom of association is therefore based on voluntary association based on express expression of will. Derogations from these criteria can only be made if there are specific criteria acceptable to the freedom of association, such as the public administrative functions provided for by the law of the association. The Constitutional Affairs Committee assessed compulsory membership in its opinion on the university law as follows: ‘However,the normal legislative order must be made subject to the requirement that the draft law be completed in order to define the public functions of the Student Union Mr President! So the duties of the Student Unions have changed. University students' health care is currently implemented directly through the Student Health Care Foundation (HSHS) and the health care fee as well as for students at universities of applied sciences. It is difficult to find a public administrative role which should be accepted as a justification for restricting the freedom of association of university students. In 2018, in the context of the Student Health Act, the Constitutional Committee stated that changes in the law have an impact on the specific tasks of the Student Union which the Constitutional Committee has considered sufficient grounds for compulsory membership of the Student Union. That FSH Law entered into force at the beginning of 2021. Thus, with the new law, the explicit justification for compulsory membership of the matriculation schools, which was previously named in practice by the Constitutional Committee, was abolished. The Constitutional Committee has not considered the compulsory membership of polytechnic student unions to be justified. In the context of the amendment of the Polytechnics Act, the committee stated that the tasks proposed to the student body and their management or the levying of the student health care fee do not, however, require compulsory membership in the student union. In connection with the discussion of the FSHS law, the Constitutional Committee called for the investigation to be carried out in order to assess whether the compulsory membership of the Student Union is no longer acceptable and proportionate. The Ministry of Education and Culture made a report stating: ‘Although the proposed law on the University of Applied Sciencesrequires the role of the Student Union in relation to the tasks of universities and the Student Union,this was a sufficient ground forrequiring membership, even Despite this, it is like a miracle that compulsory membership is not constitutionally problematic. The report does not provide sufficient fundamental rights. International law also requires the safeguarding of freedom of association. On the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights protects the negative right of association, i.e. the right not to belong to the association. Associations governed by public law, such as the Student Unions, also fall within the scope of the freedom of association enshrined in Article 11 of the Convention, on the basis of the case law of the EIT. In the study of law, compulsory membership of the matriculation schools has been considered to be contrary to the Constitution and international human rights obligations. For example, Dr. Muukkonen, a professor of law at the University of Law, has estimated that the constitutional conditions for compulsory membership would also have been abolished due to a reduction in the public administrative functions of the Student Unions. The study has drawn attention to the fact that in universities of applied sciences the automatic and coercive membership of student municipalities has not been allowed to be introduced and that, with the entry into force of the Finnish Student Unions and the Student Unions of Polytechnics, the functions of the Student Unions are practically identical. Mr President! A thorough effort in the area of fundamental rights demands that the Constitutional Committee deal with this, which I hope will result in a legislative initiative. On the basis of the situation prior to the entry into force of the FSHS Act, the Supreme Administrative Court has recently adopted an annual book decision assessing that compulsory membership cannot be regarded as manifestly and irreconcilably contrary to the freedom of association which is negative within the meaning of Article 106 of the Constitution. However, cases are still pending and the legal situation is at least unclear. Finally, I would like to thank the 85 Members of Parliament who have signed the initiative, from several parties. I hope that the widely supported initiative will be dealt with by the committees and that the comments made by the legal researchers in the initiative will also be able to benefit from the evaluation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In any case, it would be most clear to change the law so that in the future it would be optional to be included in the overtime bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u127	Thank you. — Mr Heikkinen, Janne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u128	Mr President! The term “academic freedom” is repeatedly cultivated at the university. Based on my own experience, this often justifies, for example, a flexible concept of timetables. In this respect, it is ironic that such an academic imperative has been created alongside academic freedom. The student is a prisoner of the Student Union and is also forced to pay for it. In practice, the situation is that students are forced to become members of the Student Unions, which runs counter to the constitutionally negative freedom of association. The current situation has been created by a long historical tradition and by the necessity dictated by practice. Indeed, compulsory membership of the student unions was at least somewhat justified in order to organise the health care of students. However, this same criterion has not been applicable since January 2021, when the new law on the health care of university students, the so-called FSHS Act, came into force. The legal review has shown that old-fashioned compulsory membership of the student unions is no longer justified. The same has been implicitly stated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its 2018 opinion on the YTHS Law. In this context, the government was called upon to act: ‘In the Council of State, it would be appropriate to consider the launch of a study to assess Mr President! My colleague, Mrs Vestman's bill, provides a solution to this problem, which is no longer sustained by the distressed silence of this left-wing government. Membership of the Student Unions must be made voluntary by law. Students are entitled to freedom both in studies and in association memberships. Finland is not a party country where membership makes its basics work. Nor should there be any such thing in the Student Unions. The matriculation schools must demonstrate their merits and abilities to a large number of students, whether by housing services or by various nutrition services. If the Student Unions really do the important and invaluable work they themselves claim to do, there should be no reason for them to fear the possibility of deciding on membership themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u129	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u130	Mr President! It is difficult to see that increasing constitutional freedom would undermine innovation, diligence, development, success or the overall progress of an individual in his studies. In this context, I would like to thank Mr Vestman for his fine bill and to thank him for his work. Heikkinen's active grip here as a whole. They are the true lighthouses of freedom. As colleagues have explained here and opened up this situation, the main conclusion of Muukkonen's 2021 law publication seems to be that the automation and compulsory membership of the matriculation schools has become unconstitutional on 1 January 2021. In the middle of the corona period, this outstanding bill has 85 signatures from six different parties — at least so quickly. I think it is a clear indication that there is a desire in Parliament to move forward on this issue. There is really nothing more to add to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u131	Thank you. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u132	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Vestman for his very carefully prepared bill and here for his very thorough explanation of the reasons for this bill. The compulsory membership of the Student Union is indeed something that needs to be removed. We've been talking about it for a long time, but it's been in effect since we got here. It is quite obvious that in today's society, in Finland, the law on universities should be amended in such a way as to make it truly voluntary to be included in the upper secondary school bill. This bill collected whether it was now, 85 signatures, and I am one of those signatories. I have supported it and continue to support it warmly, and I hope that it will be given careful consideration in committee and will go through. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u133	Thank you. — And Mr Vestman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u134	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this debate, in which there was absolutely fundamental justification for bringing the compulsory membership of the Student Unions into history, where it belongs as an ancient relic. Mr Heikkinen's speech made an all-important argument that if the Student Unions carry out tasks as important to the students as it is sometimes said, then the students will, of course, voluntarily want to be included in the Master's bill. In fact, six different parties signed this bill, and 85 representatives are in large numbers. Now I really hope that the Committee on Education will first of all take the initiative and then get the attention and evaluation of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u135	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u136	Mr President! I have taken a legislative initiative to amend the Act on Health Care Professionals and Article 6 of the Act on the Suspension of Pregnancy. This bill proposes to add a new 15b§ freedom of conscience to Chapter 3 of the Health Professionals Act. The article would ensure the right of healthcare professionals to refuse to participate in an active measure to end life on the basis of freedom of religion and conscience. At the same time, the title of Chapter 3 of the Act would be changed to ‘General obligations and rights of a healthcare professional’. In addition, the initiative proposes to amend Article 6(2) of the Act on the suspension of pregnancy so that the doctor would in future be entitled, on the basis of freedom of religion and conscience, to refuse to take part in abortions as a doctor or performer. These laws complement each other, and in both laws the condition for the exercise of freedom of conscience is that the patient’s health is not at risk. Similarly, both laws include the obligation to instruct the patient comprehensively and to inform the doctor and other healthcare professionals about different options when claiming freedom of conscience. At the same reception unit, arrangements should be made to ensure that the patient receives the treatment he needs and that the patient’s health is not compromised. I would like to state the reasons for Freedom of religion is a fundamental right of a democratic society. According to the Constitution, everyone has freedom of religion and conscience. Similarly, international human rights treaties, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, safeguard not only freedom of religion but also freedom of conscience and thought. Freedom of religion and conscience includes the right to recognise and practice religion, the right to express belief and the right to belong or not to a religious community. Moreover, no one is obligated to engage in religious practices contrary to his conscience. In many European countries, healthcare staff have a statutory right to refuse to participate in abortions on the basis of ethical or religious beliefs. In these countries, it is possible to study and act as a gynecologist or midwife without having to take part in abortions contrary to their convictions. According to THL's calculation, around 8,700 abortions were performed in Finland in 2019, i.e. 7.7 abortions per 1,000 women of fertility age. After a continuous decrease of several years, the number of interruptions stopped in 2019 compared to the previous year. In Finland, health care personnel are not legally entitled to refuse to interrupt pregnancy on the basis of ethical or religious beliefs. The ethical conflict between abortions and the protection of life is psychologically burdensome for some health care staff and workers. It is particularly burdensome for workers who, on the basis of their personal convictions, experience a determined human life. If the worker is pressured to act contrary to his deep conviction, his mental health will be put at risk. This bill proposes a legal right to refuse to end life on the basis of religious or ethical beliefs, unless the patient’s life is in danger. The law would allow health professionals the right to opt out of a single life-ending measure and to write a statement immediately leading to it. The professionalism and ethics of a healthcare professional include treating all patients. The bill explicitly emphasises that a doctor or other health care professional who refuses to take action is obliged to advise and guide in order to obtain the necessary care. Patients are not left untreated on the basis of conviction. The law includes a strong obligation to instruct the patient and to provide comprehensive information on the various options. Similarly, the reception unit should ensure, inter alia, that the patient receives the necessary care. In practice, it has been shown that practical arrangements can deal with such situations. In this case, the person refusing the measure takes greater responsibility for other tasks. These provisions would be incorporated into both the Act on the Suspension of Pregnancy and the Act on Health Care Professionals. These rights also apply to students in these fields. The law would apply in the event of termination of pregnancy. If euthanasia were to be approved in Finland in the future, the right to refuse the death of a euthanasia measure now being introduced into the Health Care Professional Act would also be possible. I therefore propose that the law on health care professionals be amended to include a new law on health care professionals in the 15b§ read: ‘Freedom of conscience. A healthcare professional has the right to refuse to take part in an active measure to end life if the patient’s life is not in danger. However, when claiming freedom of conscience, a healthcare professional is obliged to instruct the patient and to provide comprehensive information on the various options. The reception unit should ensure that the patient receives the necessary treatment. In addition to this law, account should be taken of the provisions of Article 6 of the Act on the suspension of pregnancy.’ In addition, I propose that Article 6 of the Act on the suspension of pregnancy be read as follows: the amendment to Article 6(2) should read as follows: ‘The decision to authorise two doctors shall contain a written statement which One of the doctors must give an opinion on the termination of pregnancy
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u137	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u138	Mr President! I now remember that this kind of law was dealt with in Parliament last season, and I supported it at the time, so I think that this proposal is very balanced and also takes into account the rights of the patient and his information regarding possible treatment, even if the doctor in question did not take part in this procedure. In Europe, I believe that health care staff have such a right to refuse these measures for religious and religious reasons, and I do not see why they could not also be used in Finland. In particular, if legislation on abortion is liberalised on what it is currently in Finland, as required by a citizens' initiative, then in the event that the measure does not even have proper medical grounds or has no consent from two doctors — as it is suggested that it is in practice subjective right to a very high degree — this need is highlighted that medical staff are entitled to refuse such measures, in particular on non-medical grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u139	Thank you. — And so, Mr Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u140	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to speak again. I attach great importance to this bill by Mr Tanus. I still regret that during the last parliamentary term the citizens' initiative on this issue did not go through and that Parliament did not understand how important it would be for health workers to have this freedom of conscience when dealing with fundamental issues that are absolutely crucial to a person's life. Abortion is an ethical issue that divides people, and I understand that for many it is a very sensitive and painful subject. For a health - care professional who sees that a person’s life begins with conception and that a person’s life is valuable from the outset, it is then impossible for his conscience and his conviction to participate in activities that deliberately end a person’s life. And I think that this is important not only for this healthcare professional, such as the doctor, freedom of religion and conscience, but also for patients and customers. I think it is an accident that we in Finland cannot even specialise in gynecologists at the moment, unless we agree to abortions, even though, as Mr Tanus has very rightly pointed out here, there is much more to be done in the field of gynecology than abortions, which means that not everyone necessarily needs to take part in these measures. For example, there are sensitive questions such as infertility treatments where it would be important for a patient, a woman, and a family to find a doctor who has the same attitude toward the beginning of life from the beginning and with whom you can have discussions from the very beginning on the basis that the value of a person’s life is respected from the beginning. I hope that this bill will be dealt with carefully in committee and that Parliament will be able to understand the importance of allowing health professionals, with a good conscience and a good mind, to work in the profession and also to provide services to those categories of customers,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u141	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Mr Sjöblom, please give a presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u142	Mr President! Managing emotional and interactive skills contributes to the well-being of children and young people. Strengthening emotional and interactive skills will help children and young people to respond constructively to conflicts, to understand the problems of bullying, to defend the weaker and to avoid mental and physical violence. Understanding feelings and showing empathy make social relations easier and also help create a good learning environment. Teaching emotion and interaction skills in comprehensive school is therefore important for society. The purpose of this bill is to add emotional and interaction skills to the Basic Education Act. The mental health problems of children and young people have grown alarmingly. In social media, inappropriate language and cruelty arise among young people and adults alike. There is an alarming amount of bullying at school. School bullying and school violence often leave permanent marks, and trauma can accompany you for the rest of your life. Although work has been done to prevent bullying at school, there is still too much of it and, therefore, school bullying needs to be tackled more effectively. Violent crimes committed by young people have also increased. According to statistics, there are more young people in psychiatric care than ever before, and since the management of emotional and interpersonal skills contributes to the well-being and mental health of children and young people, there is a great need to teach these skills. Understanding feelings and showing empathy make life good, predictable and safe for children and young people. In addition to helping children and young people in social relations, emotional and interaction skills also make learning at school easier and more effective. Therefore, the teaching of emotional and interpersonal skills in basic education with the resources provided by the law should be an important social effort. Mr President! The discussion of this bill took place at an excellent time, because this week is the week of the Rights of the Child. Every child has the right to be treated well and to receive care and protection from violence and indifferent treatment. The communication network on children's rights has just stated that bullying, discrimination and school violence can be prevented by empathy education and by learning emotional and interactive skills. Good emotional and interaction skills contribute to a positive attitude towards both ourselves and other people. At the same time, they strengthen social relations and help to accept differences and solve problems in cooperation. The Trade Union for Education (OAJ) considers it very necessary to teach emotion and interaction skills, social skills and working in a group, and has long sought to make them an integral part of basic education. Positive practical experiences support the inclusion of emotional and interaction skills among existing subjects. For example, a two-year experiment in Helsinki school added one hour of emotional and interaction skills to all classes. The experiment improved focus in class and reduced racism and bullying. Children’s ability to control their own emotions developed, and their enjoyment increased. The students were reported to have come more often to tell the teacher about things that matter. Strong evidence of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the teaching of emotional and interpersonal skills has also been provided in international studies. Investing in the interaction skills of children and young people has a positive impact on learning outcomes and academic skills. According to a recent study carried out by the OECD, a sense of belonging confirmed by emotional and interaction skills contributes to the development of the characteristics needed to study and also predicts better school success. These skills are also an integral part of democratic education, because a democratic and pluralist society cannot survive without acceptance of diversity and differing opinions. Mr President! Regular teaching of emotional and interpersonal skills provides a strong basis for human relations and mental well-being, including in future working life. Emotional and interactive skills have become increasingly important in working life, and it is expected that, as technology develops and robotics and artificial intelligence become more widespread, development will become even stronger. Indeed, the World Economic Forum, in its analysis of future skills needs, has been identified as one of the ten most important skills of emotional intelligence. Children and young people can have very different opportunities in their lives to learn emotional and interaction skills. This further underlines the importance of teaching in schools. The teaching of emotional and interactive skills is included in the current curriculum and has been a good start. Now the work has to be carried forward, and the next step is to record emotional and interaction skills in the Basic Education Act. This will ensure that regional inequalities are not created and that sufficient teaching opportunities and resources are provided for emotional and interaction skills throughout the country. According to international studies and reports, systematic teaching of emotional and interaction skills protects children and young people. Good emotional and interaction skills bring balance to the future. This means less crime and insecurity in the long term and more peace in society. I am very grateful to all the signatories of the bill for nine different parties, i.e. there was broad support. The citizens' initiative on this subject collected nearly 32,000 signatures, which means that it is very important for all of us. Let us hope that the dream of an equal teaching of emotional and interactive skills for all will come true.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u143	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u144	Mr President! Life is full of different social relationships, encounters and situations. Emotional and interactive skills are a basic prerequisite for coping in society. Teaching these skills is important for the development of children and young people, including working life. Indeed, this is the background to the citizens’ initiative, and the authors of the citizens’ initiative explain the initiative as follows: ‘Child learning to react to conflictinstructively,to understand the risks of bullying and trolling,to defend the weaker and to avoid the mental and physical violence. It is also important to recognise the social importance of emotional and interpersonal skills, since the preservation of democracy requires acceptance of diversity and differing opinions.” No wonder the initiative was supported both as a citizens' initiative and in this House, and I certainly hope that the committee will look into it properly. The integration of emotional and interaction skills into basic education could bring significant positive results both in the individual's life and in the well-being of the entire class community and the school community. Let me give you an example: In 2019, two-year piloting began in Helsinki, where emotional and interaction skills were taught weekly to the first-sixth graders of Lakavuori Elementary School. The results of the pilot published last spring are excellent: Teaching emotion and interaction skills clearly strengthened the student's social skills and improved the class atmosphere in the year. In addition, children’s concentration and association improved during the year. Racism, bullying and fits of anger also decreased. It should be noted that the results of the 2019 survey were weaker for students in Lakavuori than in other primary schools in Helsinki. One year later, the situation had clearly improved both in social skills and in the identification of strengths and resources. The development of children’s emotional and interaction skills was also followed by surveys of school staff. In 20 years, the class atmosphere was estimated to have improved clearly from the previous year, and many teachers saw the students enjoying themselves better together. In 2019, 67 per cent of the respondents experienced good teamwork in their own class, in 20, a year later, 92 per cent. The focus on school work also improved clearly. And the results have been shared, that is, both students and staff. OAJ has also proposed this in such a way that there would be two weekly hours in primary school and two weekly hours in secondary school. In a Busy School World
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u145	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u146	Mr President! It does not immediately come to mind what this world would need more than empathy and understanding and hearing the thoughts of others. On that basis, therefore, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative behind it and, in particular, Mr Sjöblom's excellent work on this initiative. The fact that the management of emotional and interpersonal skills contributes to the well-being and mental health of children and young people is well highlighted here. As Mr Sjöblom said, the Rights Week for the Child is an excellent week for presenting this bill. Today I gave a group speech on Agenda 2030 and sustainable development. In it, I stressed that if we really want to be able to move forward as Finland, as the world, as people towards sustainable development, we need to focus on the fact that we can talk about things and not divide people into bad and good people and shut others out because of different opinions. In a way, I see that this bill is very closely linked to my own speech. I would like to raise this point from this introduction, which states that the strengthening of emotional and interactive skills will help children and young people to respond constructively to conflicts, to understand the problems of bullying, to defend the weaker and to avoid mental and physical violence. These skills are also an integral part of democratic education, because a democratic and pluralist society cannot survive without acceptance of diversity and differing opinions. If I mirror my own earlier speech on sustainable development, we are now at the very heart of this legislative initiative, and I very much hope that it will receive its due consideration in committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u147	Thank you. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u148	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my warm thanks to Mr Sjöblom for taking this important initiative. Many have signed it, and I am one of them. Emotional and interactive skills in the Basic Education Act are yes, I would say, for many years perhaps one of the best initiatives and presentations. We have talked a lot about the ill health of children and young people, the challenges faced by families with children, about everything that a changing environment, including social media channels and digitalisation can bring — as much good as they can bring, but it can also lead to challenges for children and young people — and talk a lot about bullying at school, learning difficulties and so on. I myself come from the health care sector and have often wondered how many cases in the end are involved in the very fact that children and young people do not know how to write their own feelings, they cannot spell what makes them feel bad, which makes them feel like this and so, and also in treating each other for what is unpleasant, violence or bullying, how many of those cases are concerned with lack of sufficient emotional and interactive skills. That is why I warmly support the inclusion of emotional and interactive skills in the Basic Education Act, and I certainly hope that these issues will be taken into consideration right there in the maternity clinic and in early childhood education when preparing for the school world. And yes, I must say that many adults today also have a lack of emotional and interaction skills, so I would see that those courses are needed not only for children and young people but also for many adults. Mr Sjöblom gave a very good presentation on this initiative, and Mr Hopsu also raised the issue of how significant and measurable the results have been in terms of the speed of time, one year. It sounds very fine, and I believe that when this material is introduced, there will also be exactly the same results in other schools. A week of the rights of the child is celebrated, and this year the theme is the right of the child to good treatment — good treatment between children for one another, but also good treatment between adults and children. I would see that we really need the good emotional and interactive skills and the learning of them, and I would see that this is such a theory that we need to learn and strengthen it more throughout our lives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u149	Thank you. — Mr Sjöblom, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u150	Mr President! Thank you for these good and supportive speeches. The benefits of emotional and interaction skills in life are undeniable and it is important that they are taught to children and young people at all ages. Teaching young people about self-awareness, emotional control, cause-effect relationships, empathy and argument skills throughout the nine years of schooling allows them to avoid bullying, understand differences, acquire academic skills and lessons for future working life skills, and also observe dangerous situations. According to research and empirical findings, we can also expect these young people to be more likely to refrain from such things as violence and substance abuse. I hope that this important issue will now proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u151	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-17-ps-135.u152	Mr President! The representative, Tanus, raised this very well, precisely how one of the skills learned here is communication, and communication was precisely here in the test school, in the pilot school, one of the skills that had progressed. So the teachers told us that the students came more often to tell if they were being influenced. Eli had found such a reasonable way to proceed with these different feelings and to write them. I also really share the view that adults would benefit from this. Well, teachers, of course, so that such instruction can be given, need the training itself, so that there is such a strong feeling that you can teach these skills. Certainly not every teacher has the kind of subject he would like to teach, and no one is meant to be forced to do so, but there may also be other than class teachers who hold those classes. And why can't this Parliament be a guinea pig for this kind of education? I wanted to invite the citizens' initiative makers. Mr Sjöblom and I will have an opportunity next Thursday, after Question Time, because when the initiative did not raise the 50,000, they will not have the opportunity to come here to tell us, so they will be available for Question Time in the Small Parliament. Warm welcome, and I hope the committee will be able to attend.
