ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 10/2021 vp. Let's go talk to him. The introduction is made by Mrs Rinne, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerns the citizens' initiative to organise a referendum on the EU recovery package. The initiative takes the form of a proposal to initiate the drafting of legislation. According to Article 53(3) of the Constitution, Finnish citizens entitled to vote at least 50000 have the right to take an initiative in order to legislate in accordance with the law. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the citizens' initiative complements the primary representative system. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stressed that as a new institution, the citizens' initiative should also be welcomed in parliamentary deliberations. However, even in the explanatory statement to the Constitutional referendum regulation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is of the opinion that the advisory referendum is also intended as an exceptional arrangement. The exception is also shown by the low number of referendums: Finland has submitted state advisory referendums on the abolition of the Prohibition Act in 1931 and Finland's accession to the European Union in 1994. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to Parliament's role in dealing with the own resources decision. Pursuant to Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Council, acting in accordance with a special legislative procedure and after consulting the European Parliament, shall adopt unanimously a decision laying down provisions on the system of the Union’s own resources. This Decision shall enter into force after its adoption by the Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. In Finland, the decision on own resources is dealt with in Parliament in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution. According to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, Parliament's consent to this own resources decision must be decided by a two-thirds majority. In view of the above, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not consider it appropriate to hold a referendum on the citizens' initiative and proposes that it be rejected. The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs contains an objection which proposes that Parliament urges the Government to take immediate action to prepare the law on the holding of an advisory referendum under the citizens' initiative and to submit a legislative proposal on this matter to Parliament as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u3	Thank you, Mr Rinne. — And now to the debate. — Representative Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u4	Mr President! The Finns Party supports the citizens' initiative under discussion to hold a referendum on the EU recovery package. It is possible to complement the representative democratic system by means of direct democracy in order to increase citizens' influence. This will increase the acceptance of the state system and its decisions among the public. It is important in a democratic society that people's opinions are heard. With regard to the recovery package in June 2020, the Government stated that sufficient public debate should be held in preparation. In practice, however, there has been little extensive civil dialogue. There was little public debate on this matter until the government presented to Parliament a proposal for the adoption of a own resources decision, including the expenditure and financial provisions of the recovery package. Mr President! The recovery package represents a fundamental change of direction in the development of the EU, which could not be foreseen in Finland when ratifying the Treaties. The Union may act only in accordance with the competences conferred on it by the Member States by the Treaties. The powers which are not conferred on the EU in the Treaties remain with the Member States. However, the recovery package would now be financed with a debt of EUR 750 billion in the Union, despite the fact that the Union has not been given the power to borrow in its Treaties. The Union would now start to finance its operations in the form of debt, and its borrowing rate would be around 14 times higher. The recovery instrument would provide a majority of the Fund’s resources in the form of grants, not loans, and thus constitute a flow of Union activities. Until summer 2020, the EU's own institutions have considered that the Treaties prohibit the Union from financing its activities with debt and that the Union and the Member States should assume the financial responsibilities of another Member State. The decision on own resources contains a completely new interpretation in relation to previous practice. In this respect, it is a question of changing the interpretation of the Treaties to such an extent that it is in practice compared to a situation in which the Union would be transferred competence by means of a Treaty amendment. Mr President! Traditionally, the broad economic policy stimulus has not been one of the tasks of the Union and its financial and budgetary system. However, the Union now assumes its responsibility to ensure the financial sustainability of the weaker Member States in crises. At the same time, the use of Union funding will change from the financing of the Union’s own policy actions to the Member States’ own policy actions. The Government's proposal highlights the unique nature of the recovery package. Although the technological recovery package is only the solution to the current situation, the pressure on fiscal policies that are financed by a similar EU debt and also countercyclical in the Member States will be significant in the future. Debted countries with high support are likely to rely on the availability of similar support in the future, thereby reducing their capacity to carry out reforms to improve their economic and debt sustainability. In the public debate at EU level, the recovery package is therefore seen as the beginning of a fiscal union that will contribute to integration on a permanent basis. The recovery package is a precedent that will have a broad impact on the Union and its future development. The recovery package is about a twenty-year arrangement, the effects of which are difficult to determine. The financing model would be valid until 2058. The size and duration of the recovery package will limit the functioning of many future governments, and this is therefore an important budgetary constraint for Parliament. Mr President! When discussing the organisation of the referendum, it is important to take into account the fact that it was not possible to anticipate the recovery package in the parliamentary elections in 2019. Before these elections, the party's policies on common debt were very negative, and this is also reflected in the Government Programme and the Government's recent EU report. That is why the mandate given directly by the Government to the people to express the recovery package to change the direction of the EU and to accept a joint and several liability is weak. Mr President! With reference to the above arguments, I shall make an objection in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We propose that Parliament urge the Government to take immediate action to prepare the law on the organisation of the consultative referendum referred to in the citizens' initiative KAA 6/2020 and to submit a legislative proposal on this matter to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u5	Like this. — Mr Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u6	Mr President! Here again you, the representatives of independent Finland, have come to despise democracy. May I ask, whose business are you on? We Finns in the Constitutional Committee today voted in favour of a citizens' initiative to vote on this EU recovery package. You knocked down this citizens' initiative. It is no wonder why the people would want to decide on this package, namely what this package is all about? This is about EUR 4 billion of Finnish money being scraped outside the country. This is about trampling on the Treaties. This gives the Union interpretations which cannot be regarded as existing in the current state of these Treaties, at no level. This is where democracy is trampled. This is also an ideological package, not an economic package. Our responsibilities with this EU recovery package would extend to 2058 and the people should not decide. The Members of this Chamber, many of us, have already moved from time to time at that stage and are not in charge of the consequences that will be decided in this Chamber this week and of the consequences that will affect future generations. This package is harmful to Finland, but it is also harmful to the European Union because it creates moral hazard for Member States. We are going to move towards a joint and several debt because this opens the doors to it. In addition, those countries that want to live more broadly, who want to reduce their own taxes or introduce basic income will continue to be supported by those countries that take care of their own finances. Such a model of reward is sick. The worse you act, the worse you behave, the worse you take responsibility, the more you are rewarded. These 50000 names for this citizens' initiative came in record time, in four days, and then they cut off the collection of signatures so that this could be dealt with quickly. The public really wants to vote on this, because when the referendum was in 94, it was not possible to decide that the Union would change in such a direction as it is now being taken. The result of the vote in 94 would certainly not have been in line if the citizens had been informed of what will come with this decision in the future when, without amendments to the Treaties, we start to change the direction in which a federal state might emerge. This citizens' initiative was rejected today by the Coalition Party in the Constitutional Committee. They voted against. This has been an unimaginable saga that the coalition has been around this recovery package. At first they made a group decision to abstain from voting in favour of the package in a binding manner because they had not been allowed to negotiate this package with Marin during the EU negotiations, and it was therefore considered that we should not take responsibility and abstain. Well, now that this decision has become a huge criticism that the people have sent representatives to the parliament to represent them and these votes that have been made are thrown into the trash, the assembly then circled its decision, and today we have heard that more Members are going to vote in favour of this package. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u9	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u10	Mr President! We are dealing with the holding of a referendum on the EU recovery package. It was 1994, it was October and 16. day. At that time, we voted in a referendum in an advisory capacity as to whether we would join the European Union. It's a good thing the people were asked then. The result of the vote, however, was narrow, very narrow. In many provinces, however, the majority voted against, and the ‘no’ population was very strong in many places. North Savo and North I was already a voting age at the time. I remember there were stories in the paper that even the price of bananas would go down. It would have been more appropriate to emphasise what that vote means. It was a great idea. It was a great idea. The price of bananas was certainly secondary. I then voted ‘no’ and ‘no’ would have voted if a referendum were held—in particular. Now the direction is changing and the EU is changing. The EU is no longer the same. The recovery package is like a hospice for Finland. We are now giving large-scale gifts of money to the southern countries of the EU. Up to four and a half billion will be lost to Finland. But this seems to be the case now that the same thing can continue to happen: let us give money and not get back. Paying EUR 4 or getting back EUR 1 or not a penny. The Finns have supported this citizens' initiative to hold a vote. The citizens' initiative is proper. Now is the time to ask the people again: do we want the EU to change so radically? Do we want common debts and responsibilities? Will there be no Finnish banks soon? There are only German and French banks. Are we going to pay taxes to the EU? The worst thing is that if we now give money to the southern countries, they will still not have to worry about their economy any better. So, as a gift, we give money to the southern countries that do not care for their economies. And the worst part is that that decision will not be reversed. I'm sure the people should be allowed to decide now. Yes, a referendum is in order. We owe it to the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u11	And a representative of the field fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u12	Honored Speaker! The government, you now have before you the fundamental principle of democracy, the will and demand of the voting people, the citizens' initiative which, in a few days, collected 60,000 signatures for the referendum on the European Union's recovery package. I would like to emphasise that in a few days. One can only guess what number of signatures would have come to the initiative if they had been collected for the whole six months. These signatories have rightly been concerned about the impact of the recovery package on Finland and the Finnish people now and in the future. For this reason, I think they are more than demanding, on the subject, that the Union be subjected to a flagrant, violating bill of debt democratically under the opinion of the Finnish people. Mr President! At this point, it is important to point out that in June 2020 the Government stated in the context of the recovery package: ‘The question is of major economic and political importance. The Government stresses that sufficient public debate is needed in the preparation of the matter, both in the country of origin, Europe and Parliament. There is a need for broad public acceptance of decisions in terms of legitimacy.’ The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for its part, has stated in its opinion this year that the recovery package is concerned with the transfer of competences of importance to Finland's sovereignty from an arrangement which is effectively equivalent to that of the European Union. How can someone in this Chamber even consider such a decision to be made without the people’s guiding opinion? If you now reject the referendum, I can only wonder and ask what those records of the Government and the Constitutional Committee that I have just read mean. Again, were they the famous chatter, the unleaded poison - green jargon, or pronunciation? Do you, a worthless government, respect the people of Finland at all? Honored Speaker! It should be remembered that Finland was annexed to the European Union by a consultative referendum on the basis of a very limited ‘yes union’ vote in 1995. Much has changed since this decision, the ultimate purpose of the EU, and the EU has been able to take away the independence of nation states from their sovereignty quietly, squeezing towards the Union for Income Transfers and the federal state without asking any questions to the citizens. The resuscitation madness in the substance of the citizens' initiative is the decision of the size class that, in my opinion, it cannot be given by a government proposal, even by a government proposal that has been forced out of the marginal groups, for Parliament to decide by a two-thirds majority without an advisory referendum, because this resuscitation monster binds the hands of future governments for decades and binds the still-born Finnish children to huge debts and debt guarantees and, in the worst case, deprives them of the opportunity to enjoy their lives in our present state, which still enjoys relative sovereignty. Mr President! It is now clear from the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it does not consider it appropriate to hold a referendum on the citizens' initiative, and it proposes that it be rejected. This brutal message to the people tells the fact that there is only one party in Finland that defends democracy and democracy and respects its people. Ladies and gentlemen, only the Finns of Finland submitted an objection to the rejection of the citizens' initiative in this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which we urgently call on the Government to take measures to prepare the law on the holding of an advisory referendum and to submit a legislative proposal on this matter to Parliament as soon as possible. Parliament must not deal with the recovery package before a referendum is held; this is my unshakable opinion. Mr President! I agree with the view of the fine Finnish members of the Constitutional Committee who respect their citizens and their country of origin and support the protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u13	Like this. — and Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u14	Mr President! The issue is the holding of a referendum on the EU recovery package. First of all, I would like to thank very much those who have taken part in the citizens' initiative and also those who have signed it. As this has shown, in a few days 60,000 signatures came, and what really would have been the number six months after that? The important thing was to get that initiative on the table very soon. Representative Immonen of the People's Party presented this objection from the Constitutional Committee, why it was done, and I very much support it. The very important decisions that will affect the future of the country for years should always be taken to a referendum. They do not come very often, so important that a referendum could be held, because it also requires big arrangements, but if the country and the country's interests demand it, as this recovery package, the referendum should definitely be held. Just as Mr Reijonen said earlier, the EU to which Finland committed itself at the time, 94-95, was different from today. I myself voted 'no' at the time. After all, it was underlined in the food bag, and many people fell for it and therefore voted to go to the EU. There is a lot of good in the EU, there is no denying it, there is talk of security and many other things. But today's EU is different. That's why we have to pay attention now. For example, such a great thing as the recovery package cannot be simply dictated by the prevailing government. It must be a blessing for the people and it will come through a referendum, or it will not be given. It is a question of complying with the EU Treaty or breaking it when it comes to the introduction of a recovery package. You can forget about the one time, there will be more of these packages. In the following packages, Finland will no longer be consulted, but Finland will pay billions of dollars nicely. That is why we need to pull ourselves together and do it while there is still something we can do about it. The public should definitely be asked whether it is time to say ‘no’ and negotiate the matter, the recovery package, again in Brussels. Since the beginning, the Finns have strongly expressed their views on the recovery package and also on this referendum. We appreciate the opinion of the people and we have ears when things develop, what citizens think today, for example, about the situation and membership of the EU, whether there have been any changes, whether we should negotiate more strongly and be frank and not give up on every issue. Now is the place for Finland to say what they have to say — they will not throw us out of there, net contributors, ever. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u15	Like this. — and Mr Antikainen. — Representative Antikainen is gone. — Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u16	Mr President! I support Mr Immonen's proposal to hold this referendum. This is a major issue and a structural change in the European Union, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already stated the size of this issue in itself in this demand for two thirds of the own resources decision. Although it was not unanimous, I believe that those in the minority, too, recognized the importance of the matter and that this could not continue. So if these packages were to continue, it would be different than this one-time experienced and imagined package. It is good in itself that wisdom has crept into this house in a certain way, since Finland was then added to the euro by a simple statement by the Prime Minister, but by a simple majority, under the leadership of Prime Minister Lipponen and Minister of Finance Niinistö, who can rightly be regarded as at least questionable from the point of view of the Constitution, if not directly contrary to it. The past is past, and now we have to act in this day. This is about stretching the European Union, at the very least, stretching the Treaties and fundamental principles in a way that the outcome no longer corresponds to what has been written down in them. It should not be possible for the European Union to take on a common debt or be responsible for the economy of other countries. Now, however, a structure has been built that will come to an end because such responsibility will, in practice, take shape. We are bound to this debt for 35 years, and now, even before this package has even been ratified in all EU Member States, we are discussing new packages of this kind. There is always talk here that the EU is a rule-based international cooperation, but what is the rule that rules do not hold, but are always written when a tough place comes again? Is it not true that rules can be kept when it is calm and the ship runs smoothly, but when there is a storm at sea, then the durability of these rules is measured? In the EU, those rules have not kept them in any crisis. I therefore believe that the people should now have the right to take a position on this point as to whether this is the EU to which we have joined in our day. I myself was a few months too young to vote on EU membership. Then I would have voted absolutely ‘no’for EU membership and I would have supportedNato,who would have made our security a reality. The EU does not provide us with security because it does not have any divisions. It can only offer empty words and frivolous sentences. Why don't you ask the Ukrainians? I do not think that the EU is a security community. Nor is this about the resignation of the EU, but it is actually about adopting or rejecting the EU's multiannual financial framework. It is an issue that Finland has a unilateral right to influence in a unanimity decision. We can reject it, and this should now be asked by the people if this is the point where this opening-up of supranational taxes, the main opening-up of the social union, is being overturned and we are not moving to such a European Union, where it is developing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u17	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u18	Mr President! There is therefore a citizens' initiative that calls for a referendum on the EU recovery package on good grounds. This is not a unique package, and this has already been said several times in other Member States of the European Union. When we talk about a precise and unique package in Finland, other EU countries talk about taking the first step and rejoice in gaining new powers and deepening integration. There are two reasons for the rejection of this referendum by other parties: (1) politicians do not understand the importance of this decision for Finland and the EU; and (2) politicians fear the citizens and public opinion. Of course, the fear of a voter is the beginning of wisdom. In recent days, many politicians and the media have been wondering about the huge influx of e-mails that Members of Parliament have received. Social media and newspaper columns have half-heartedly spoken of foreign influences and Russian trolls without any evidence. It has also been found that these e-mails are clearly mastonised. Masination charges speak a sad language about not wanting to hear the concerns and opinions of citizens. It is not unheard of that the citizens are being called upon to contact the parliamentarians. That's what you do when you want to try and bring your own vision to the decision-makers. However, the most typical musicians can be found on the green left side. Greenpeace, Justice for Animals and various other organisations that promote climate and identity policy use this tactic as a part of their activities — not about Russian trolls or masonry campaigns, but about the concern of citizens. Of course, let's not talk when the messages happen to be just appropriate for their own agency. Mr President! I would like to remind all Members of Parliament that this citizens' initiative collected 58,960 declarations of support in a few days. In order for the initiative to be submitted to Parliament in time, the collection of signatures was suspended. To sign, you must identify yourself with your bank credentials in the Citizen's Initiative.fi service. So all the signatories to the citizens' initiative are just the right Finnish people. As stated in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the referendum has been held for the last time in 1994, that is, 27 years ago. Before the parliamentary elections in 2019, the MPs of several parties, including the government parties, reiterated that Finland would not agree to joint loans. This has been Finland's long-standing position on EU issues: there is a commitment to common rules and they are adhered to. But here we are, guaranteeing joint debt. None — I repeat: no Finn has been allowed to use its voice for or against this package. Now this last chance is being pulled out like a rug under your feet. From the Ivory Tower it is sometimes appropriate to land there with the people and remember whose interests we here in Parliament must be driven — Finland and Finns, no one else.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u19	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u20	Mr President! It is rather sad to look at this hall today: only one representative of non-Balkan Finns is present, not one minister. It seems to be easier to just stick your head in the bush when things get tough. Italy has decided to use the money it receives from the EU interest rate subsidy, for example, to raise its low birth rate at the same time as Spain spends its part on improving industry and experimenting with a four-day working week. Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi adopted a support regulation outlining plans for the use of EU interest subsidies. Italy uses aid to raise the low birth rate and has adopted a law allowing the Italian State to pay €250 per month for each child to parents from the seventh month of pregnancy up to the age of 21. The reform is significant as the aid is worth more than EUR 63000 per child. I am sure that there would be families with children in Finland for whom such a sum would be appropriate and who would like to vote on the EU recovery package. Are we really in Finland at the moment in such a good way that we can be involved in supporting countries that have put their own economies in bad shape? Would Finland have families with children who could use that 250 euros a month? We are paying taxes and suffering so that these countries, which have been mismanaged for a long time, can continue this madness. Italy is the largest recipient of the EU's historic large corona support package, as it is about to receive more than EUR 200 billion from the aid package. This is because the Italian economy was already in a very poor condition before the interest rate, because the economy has been very lax for a long time and there is no desire to make painful structural reforms, because we know that there will always be someone else who pays. Spain also receives a significant amount from the recovery fund. Spain is spending aid to improve industry and pilot four working days, among other things. The pilot project will be funded by the EU Recovery Fund. Finland, on the other hand, is in the support package with EUR 6.6 billion in the net contributor's role, i.e. in practice in Italy the birth rate and wealth will be raised and in Spain on holiday with Finns. This may sound very strange in the ears of Finns, as population development in Finland has also been on a steep decline. In addition to paying for Italian children, Finns also pay for the Spanish experiment for a four-day working week. Decent Finns have to work hard and we are forced to pay for the poor economic management of the countries of southern Europe. I am sure that many Finns, especially those who need help, would like to vote now on this aid package before donating the money. Koronapandemia has also affected Finnish industry very severely. That is why it is completely absurd that, with the EU support package, we should give Finnish money to Finnish competitors and to improve the competitiveness of their industries. For example, Spain is building an entire battery cluster, which will compete with the Finnish battery industry. The public won't accept the bailout, and the government knows it. That is why it does not want a package of support for the referendum. This is totally unacceptable and anti-democratic. Would it be appropriate to check at times what power the people have and what will the people have? We Finns love Finland and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u21	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u22	Mr President! We, the members of the Constitutional Committee, tabled a joint protest against the adoption of a citizens' initiative calling for a referendum on the EU support package. It is important in a democratic society that people's opinions are heard. With the EU support package, the citizens' initiative, which called for a referendum, received the necessary 50,000 signatories in record speed in a few days. It is a fact that the majority of Finns do not accept the EU support package. It is a direct transfer of income to the supposedly poor EU countries. The nature of the EU as a whole will change permanently, and there will certainly be more one-off packages in the future. We must return to the negotiating table and bring down this aid package. Mr President! Let the Finnish people decide by voting whether they really want to pay the debts of other countries. I support the objection made by Mr Immonen. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u23	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u24	Mr President! I would like to support Mr Immonen's proposal at the outset. This is a very important citizens' initiative because it measures the will of Parliament and its ability to listen to the voice of the people. Of course, it is true that we, each of us, have been voted here to represent the people with the election themes and promises of that time, but this was not asked for in the elections. We were not asked to what extent the Finnish MPs are prepared to increase Brussels' decision-making power towards the Finnish people. They did not ask whether we are prepared to pay for the reckless use of the economies of the countries of southern Europe by granting such aid packages, where Finland's contribution amounts to several billion euros. In addition to these overall responsibilities, some estimates suggest that up to EUR 13 billion, this is a major issue. Many Finnish citizens would probably wish we had a decision-making system similar to that in Switzerland, for example. After all, in Switzerland the people are allowed to put the matter to the vote as if they were able to collect enough names. In Finland, unfortunately, this citizens' initiative does not exactly correspond to what it means. The majority decision even allows them to be left out of the picture, or it is already being put to the vote in committee in the first place. The real democracy is that the people are allowed to vote more than in the parliamentary elections. What is most worrying about this is that the government, in part, thinks that this is a corona subsidy package — or could it be that you do not really think it is, but that you want the people to think it is? If it were genuinely a question of a corona subsidy package, these funds would have been distributed in a slightly different way. The countries most hit by the financial crisis caused by the interest rate would have received significantly more support. After all, this money is being distributed in practice on the grounds that some countries already have a weak economic situation. Italy, for example, has often been mentioned here. During the baking of this corona package, the debt ratio of Italian households was about 80 per cent of GDP, while the debt ratio of Finnish households was almost 130 per cent at the same time. Although the Italian government debt was over 130 per cent in Finland’s approximately 60 per cent ratio, this picture shows that the Italian people do not actually have as much debt as the Finnish taxpayers. If this aid package were to be distributed more fairly or fairly, the purchasing power of the Finnish people and the ability to cope with this corona crisis would be taken into account in an equal and successful manner to the citizens of Italy or Spain. Furthermore, when we know that the Italian gold reserve is 2451 tonnes when Finland’s gold reserve is 49 tonnes, Italy is in fact more wealthy in this regard. They could have used this gold reserve to revive their own economy, but they obviously do not want to do this because we are so generous. These are such simple and perhaps even simple-sounding examples, but these are the examples of how Finnish citizens think. If you live beyond your means, is it right to make others pay for their overliving and overeating? Mr President! One fact less discussed in the Finnish media is how much Italy, for example, owes to German and French banks. The Germans and the French certainly do not want a large EU Member State such as Italy to get so confused that they would even like to get rid of the euro. At the time of the preparation of this corona crisis support package, the German and French banks had over EUR 500 billion in receivables from Italy alone. In other words, in addition to the debts of several hundreds of billions of euros in the Italian banks, it was clear that if Italy is not somehow revived even a little, then there will be unrest in the financial markets. Of course, this subsidy of EUR 200 billion in Italy will not save their economy, but this is a signal that the European Union will come to the fore if we run out of money. Therefore, when the Finns are being sold this corona aid package, as it were, we should, in the interests of honesty, talk about the fact that it is a package of aid for countries such as Italy and Spain. This aid package does not contribute to the well-being of Finns, because that money will ultimately be paid by the Finnish taxpayer, both for Finland's support and for these countries in southern Europe. Mr President! In order for democracy to take place, it would be important to allow the citizens to vote on this issue. It is not enough for a vote to be taken only in this Chamber with the help of the government and the coalition party, but also for the people to be asked what they want. They're gonna pay for this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u25	Like this. — and Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u26	Mr President! The selfish faces of the government parties are revealed when the decision-makers speak differently and do something else. They speak beautifully of Finland's independence but at the same time donate our country away without a shot. Our wise ministers point the finger at the evil Finns and frighten the Finnish people of what will happen if they do not now start donating their money to Italy, as Germany and France have demanded. Even the assembly and the centre will be pleased with the Brussels table. Raised champagne glasses with foie gras in their mouths, they promise to be humble EU citizens and implement the Commission's plans. Ministers wonder that perhaps there will still be a good job for them in the EU and they will become fabulously rich. But this is not a fairy tale. This is the truth. In no election has the Finnish people approved the establishment of an EU Union for Income Transfers. Nowhere. This is a travesty of democracy. There had been no discussion of the start of transfers, it had not been presented before the parliamentary elections. The people have not been able to express their opinion on this in any election. Instead, in the run-up to the parliamentary elections, different parties in public simply promised that Finland would no longer support the euro countries that had managed their economies badly. In the past, it was wondered why Finland commits itself as guarantor to the debts of Greece and other southern countries, even though they are never able to repay them. It never occurred to anyone then that in 2021 we are already giving money directly across Europe. Of course, socialists cannot be trusted except that they always take more debt money, waste money and then go to the pockets of the citizens to make tax increases. However, there is a central party facing a historic decision, because as the second largest government party, it would be in power to bring down the recovery package and save Finland. In the past, the city centre was strongly opposed to common borrowing in public. For example, last spring, 8.4.2020 Katri Kulmuni, President of the Centre and Minister of Finance, said: ‘We need joint coordinated actions,but there are framework conditions. Finland is not committed to and will not accept a common debt, and each country is responsible for economic policy itself and independently.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u31	These time limits are indicative, ladies and gentlemen. The President may grant an extension if he so wishes. — Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u32	Mr President! Already at the beginning of the millennium, the Ministry of Justice has carried out a report on the development needs of the national referendum. Here’s a direct quote on the question: ‘The national elections are one of the most central forms of direct government at national level,for which a central role is Democracy must be developed precisely in the direction of direct democracy, i.e. that people are consulted on major issues through referendums. Democracy is not ready; there is much room for development. Therefore, the development of a direct democracy at national level must not be forgotten. The problem, however, is that the parties do not want democracy, they want power. The problem is therefore in this Chamber — in other words, in you, ladies and gentlemen. You should represent the people, but you each represent your parties and groups, guided by practices in this house that have nothing to do with the law — not to mention group discipline, which is unconstitutional. The votes of the President are also a joke. On the first day of the beginning of this period, the groups had agreed together to vote for Mrs Rinnet as President, because it was a practice of this kind. I have to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think, whether your constituents also agree that it was good for you to vote for Mr Antti Rinne as the first President of this period. Mr President! It should be noted that Article 14 of the Constitution ‘The public authority’s role is to promote the individual’s participation in social activities and to contribute to the decision-making process of his/herself. The Constitutional Monitoring Group recently commissioned a report on referendums in various European countries. The report reviewed the regulation of the referendum in the constitutions of the European countries. It turns out that the constitutions of 22 countries contain provisions on binding referendums, but the advisory referendum has only been included in the constitution of three countries, namely Bulgaria, Luxembourg and Finland. It should be noted that only binding referendums are genuine democracy. For some reason, people here in Finland do not dare to ask the public for a position even as an advisory function. Mr President! According to the recent press release from the Ministry of Justice, Finns and especially young people would like to participate more frequently in referendums on important social issues. This is reflected in the 2013 report submitted by election researcher Sami Borg. At that time, a special citizens' committee also considered the problems and solutions of democracy. The jury considered the minor use of the referendum in Finland to be the main problem of democracy. As a solution, it proposed a wider use of the referendum and linking it to all the elections. In addition to the referendum, there is much more to be done in our democracy. Even a healthy sense of justice already says that power should be automatically divided according to support, but that is not the case with the present system at all when the clear losers of the elections sit in the government and the winners in the opposition. The third challenge for democracy is to ensure the impartiality of information and the fourth challenge is to ensure freedom of expression, because genuine democracy requires broad freedom of expression. Mr President! In the past, only two referendums have been held in Finland. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now facing and deciding the most important issue of the whole peace period in Finland, and that is why a third referendum in the history of Finland must be held. It is a question of the fate of our country and of our people. This is our right to self-determination. Ultimately, it is a question of maintaining our independence. On such a huge issue, it is absolutely necessary to listen to the opinion of the people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u33	Like this. — and Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u34	Thank you, esteemed Speaker! Regrettably, there are few non-Finnish MPs in the hall. I actually find it rather arrogant in itself. However, this is a citizens' initiative, which in a few days has received some 60,000 names and, as has been said here, it has been suspended because this could have been dealt with quickly. In the Citizens' Initiative debates, there are usually a lot of people here to thank citizens even when they are proposing rejection, but I wonder what the people who follow this citizens' initiative are thinking. There seems to have been a policy here in the Social Democrats, there is always one or two, and there is no other. I'm really worried. Among other things, the Coalition Party has not even dared to come and talk. I personally support this motion by Mr Immonen, who spokesperson for the Finns of Finland, that a referendum should be held without delay. I was reading this report by the majority of the committee on why this citizens' initiative could not now be adopted and why a referendum could not be held. First of all, however, it is stated here that this is a political assessment to a very large extent. Well, precisely: we can then evaluate. Then, on the other hand, there is talk here that this is meant to be an exceptional arrangement, and exceptionality tells us that there are so few. Well, why do you think there are so few of them? Because they don't want to do it. Then it is argued that when there are so few, because we do not want to organise them. So we can decide here that they will be organised and then they will be organised more often. A great deal has also been said about what it was like in 94 when we voted on EU membership, what the world was like and how much has changed. I stayed there for years, and the closest thing I remember is that in 95 there was the World Hockey Championship, and we were in a whole different world. I remember myself when I was at that Market Square. It was unheard of, even in that yard, to have a terrace and buy beer. There was such talk that now that the EU comes and is the EU, there is no passport and we get beer on that terrace and the world is changing. Probably some young people in the '60s and '70s urgently wanted to go to the EU where you can do things where you don't always have to carry a passport. We had had this sort of very old-fashioned and very stiff and very different life, and that time was completely different when you remember in what time this decision was made. These young people, who have now, for example, brought this issue of citizens' initiative to the fore, have not all been born at that time, perhaps a glimmer in the father's eye. They would have a chance to say something. It is good to remember why, for example, they want to make amends to Italy. These things are so easy to forget. There have been some good reminders here. Do you remember when, in 2019, Italy was in danger of being subjected to disciplinary action by the Commission for breach of financial rules? It avoided it with some of the folds. Well, in the summer of 2020, there was talk of a difference in the EU. This package has been drawn up when the EU was therefore in trouble. We had to find a reason to make up for these indebted countries so that they would not leave the EU, so that it did not happen the way Britain did in Brexit. I had to come up with something. Then came this recovery tool and, as we have seen, it is used in many countries for climate action and other, different family policies and so on. It has nothing to do with the corona, but here are the wise people in which the Finnish Government is now involved, and even the Coalition Party, who will find a way to keep Italy: to pay them free money. Of course, Finland would be happy to accept — nothing when it comes to shoveling — but of course we are not asking for it. We're giving it to the others. We're very kind that we don't lose that reputation. It seems to me that these politicians are concerned that they are afraid to go to the EU, but they dare to go to the market of Finnish citizens who have voted for them. It is, of course, everyone's choice, and I hope that the citizens do not have a bad memory here. A week ago, the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, said, at Question Time, he was sitting here somewhere and said that, but when we have had a handshake in the EU. How do you shake hands? Did he not tell you that we have a parliament that can still say that this requires a certain majority or that this is even completely unconstitutional? Did you forget to tell me a little thing like this, that we have this sort of thing like Parliament? And that is why we should now hand over the mandate here, once we have had a handshake. You can't shake your hand for me, at least. I have not voted on this yet. Then we have been intimidated by the fact that the world is going down, that Europe is going down and that everything is gone. That is not true, and if you do not believe me, believe Markku Jokisipilä, the Head of Parliamentary Research. I looked at his interview on Stiller as a May Day and he said that he did not believe in this sort of thing, that everything was going to go down and the world was going down, but he thought that the EU would return to the negotiating table, that this is how it is. He is an experienced researcher and impartial in these matters. I would like to say a few words about law-abiding and contract law. I'm an old-school lawyer, and I went to school in a way that the law is respected. I myself am law-abiding and I have experienced that when the agreement is concluded, the agreement is bound by the old principle of pacta sunt servanda, but now it is on the move in the EU that the agreements are today and tomorrow that. Then the Commission, in its political conclave, sees what is the best interpretation today that this is the case. If I'm going to make a deal with you in the front row and today it's like this and then tomorrow it's like that, then you'll just have to take it when I tell you how to interpret that deal. In fact, I would say that this undermines the view of Finns as to what is law-abiding, that laws must be observed. Today, Question Time — forced to add that — spoke of these illegal residents. It is now the case that they are given all kinds of benefits, services and residence permits. Finnish citizens have to comply with court decisions, laws and regulations in their everyday lives. We are always told that you must obey the laws, be obedient, but then there is an EU that does not comply with its own laws, and then there are certain groups that do not even have to comply with the decisions of the law. It is no wonder when people get pissed off and feel that the same laws apply only to them but, for example, do not apply to decision-makers at all. So you should dare ask the people, and you should be able to say no to this damn package. I would say it is now or never, ‘it’s now or never’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u35	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u36	Mr President! Thank you to the authors of this citizens' initiative and to those who have signed it. I also support the vote on the EU support package in line with this citizens' initiative. The transfer under the name of the EU recovery package has been addressed by citizens since the government negotiated an economically miserable deal for Finland in the summer. People cannot even understand why the government has communicated the transfer package to the net recipient countries of Europe first as a glorious result and later as a necessary evil. The citizens' initiative for a referendum on the transfer package collected the necessary 50,000 signatures in four days — four days. Finland has one of the highest tax rates in Europe, and we have no tax evasion. As a result of lower tax rates and massive tax evasion, Italy and Spain are now being rewarded for the financial problems caused by the financial crisis by the Finnish taxpayer’s backskin package, which 70% focuses on lax economics in 2015-2019 and only 30% on the damage caused by the interest rate. Finnish hardworking and tax-paying citizens will see through this scam and demand a referendum. Mr President! Finns do not want to be rewarded for lax economics, as is now the case for Italy and Spain with this transfer of income in the corona wraps. Take this message from the citizens seriously, the good government and the coalition. Finns should not finance lax economic management and tax evasion of richer Italians, nor should they safeguard French banks' claims or finance a four-day working week for Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the voice of the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u37	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u38	Thank you, Mr President. There are indeed two undemocratic issues in this debate today. The first is that the citizens' initiative, which collects names in record time, is in practice thrown right into the junkyard. It has been forced to think of what has been seen here that these citizens' initiatives have only become a tool for moving the ideas of the Green Left forward, because only those things that support the Green Left idea are dealt with. I think this is infinitely wrong, because the role of the citizens' initiative is that citizens are allowed to give their opinions, and indeed if 50,000 names are collected in four days, what would it have been if 180 days had been collected, what had time to collect. The second point is that in Spain we are going to have a four-day working week and support for the battery industry, that is to say, we are going to have our own competitor — as if we did not have enough competitors in the past. Better pensions for Italians. Well, it's good that Italy gets better pensions because it didn't get the Mayan cents for the Finnish pension recipients. The countries of southern Europe are already using the recovery money for their own industry or for their own people. What are we doing here in Finland? We're spending our recovery money to save the world's climate. I mean, you can't really do anything that doesn't make sense. You can't really do anything that doesn't make sense. Are we, as in any way in this activity, on the same line, with the same idea? Let us think this way, other countries use their own revitalization, their own industry, their own nation. What are we gonna do? With that money, we can improve the climate of the earth when others don't want to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u39	And Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u40	Mr President! I would like to return to the point that the government has justified that this aid package cannot be overturned by Finland because it is linked to the financial framework. This European financial framework and this package of aid were deliberately linked for precisely this reason that it would be extremely embarrassing for any Member State to bring this down. As such, if the Prime Minister has negotiated such a bad agreement, then Parliament is not obliged to examine this issue on that basis. As has been said here today, if Finland had already given a message in this respect, in a spineless way, that we will not accept this aid package, then it is customary for the European Union to renegotiate — we could also have sought relief for Finland in terms of its contributions. They said this was a government choice of values that they didn't want to do it. It was more important for Finland to point the finger at countries such as Hungary than to negotiate rebates on this aid package. And this doesn't make sense to the ordinary taxpayer. Mr President! However, I would also like to highlight this support package system, which has not been much discussed. It is clear that this recovery package will transform the Union, because the Union will start to finance its activities more and more in debt. And now that the majority of this recovery instrument is granted in the form of subsidies, this will become permanent eternal movements. We, who have been here in Parliament, remember when we once had a European stability mechanism here in 2012, when the European Union developed such a fund of EUR 500 billion to support countries in a serious economic crisis. Greece, Portugal and Ireland, among others, applied for loans under this European Stability Mechanism when they had serious bank crises and other financial difficulties, but it was not much more popular. Most of the 599 billion that had been raised in that fund by a loan from the European Commission was not used. This amounted to EUR 80 billion in capital, of which, I think, Finland also accounted for around one and a half billion, which was paid in cash at the time. Why hasn't this money been used? Why hasn't it been picked up? Well, it's a simple reason. After all, Italy and Greece did not want that money to be raised so much, because it must be repaid. In addition to that, there were such tough conditions: we need to make the economy better so that we cannot live beyond our means. And when we know that this culture of action is in the blood of some peoples of the South, why on earth are we creating a fund that will certainly not see repayment? Italy will never repay those debts, at least not fully. We remember when here in Parliament back in 2012 — even then the Finns of Peru were in opposition — that the then finance minister praised that we were making money with this, we get good interest income with this. My guess is that, even during this parliamentary term, in the Committee on Budgets, as in the last parliamentary term, when I was a member there, the few ten million that came in the form of interest income were re-allocated to these payers. Is that not the case, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, when you have arrived here?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u43	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u44	Mr President! First of all: This has been a series of long or slightly shorter speeches by the people of Peru, the others have hardly spoken here, but I thank these social democrats who are here, some of them. It has been asked, came a message that what it no bail-out means. As a review, if anyone is watching this broadcast, no bail-out means that each country will take care of its own debts. Now we go beyond the limit of taking care of other people's debts, and Finland in the front of the world has to do it with billions of dollars. Therefore, the Treaty is being violated — no matter how it is said, it is contrary to the Treaty. I was thinking about the name of this recovery package, "Is that the real name?" This, too, gives the impression that it will also revitalize Finland. That's a rock for us, isn't it? It's a burden package for us. For example, it could be a recovery package for Italy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u45	And Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u46	Mr President! Finally, I would like to make one final observation about this 500 billion European stability mechanism that was created in the European Union in 2012. I was surprised to see the news from Yle in May last year, with such a wire version: eight questions and answers on the new billion-dollar package of the EU Commission. There was a question here and an answer as to what and what joint support packages already exist. Now that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance is here, I would have asked that it should be mentioned that ‘the euro countries have already agreed onco-financing’,and that this lending goes on to include three elements:the unemployment insurance fund,the European Investment Bank’s business support andthe use of the European Stability Mechanism,the ESM,tolocate expenditure related to the increase in health expenditure’. In other words, it has passed through this news at the time that the ESM support package, which was made for quite another use in the past, has been included in this fight against corona pandemic a year ago. Well, since there are quite different conditions in the ESM support package, which Member States are genuinely using this money? I suspect that there are not many, unless these conditions have also been changed. And if these conditions have been changed, has this been dealt with in Parliament? Now that I am not on the Committee on Budgets, I do not know whether this has been discussed, and so I ask: has there been a debate on this in the Committee on Budgets? Of course, there may not be an answer, but such observations simply show that these continuous aid packages, which we are doing, change shape, but the responsibilities remain with the taxpayer. Perhaps the responsibility of the payer will change so that it is no longer necessary to bear that responsibility at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u47	And the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u48	Mr President! Those three funds, mentioned by Mr Niiko, are all credit-providing, that is, the role of the European Union and its entire budget being a guarantor, and then again it has a right of regression towards the Member State that might not have paid it. This is the kind of thing that has been done before. In that split by the European Investment Bank, it is still secondary. Of course, the bank is primarily a risk bearer and has been given these subsidiary guarantees on behalf of the European Union. After all, all these systems have been before Parliament in a large committee, and some have also come to the plenary session — I do not remember which one — depending on whether a whole new institution has been created or whether such additional funding has been provided for precisely these difficult problems caused by the interest rate. This funding for the health sector was particularly important and urgent. It was brought into this first wave so that those countries that had been hit hardest have been able to apply for credit there. Unfortunately, I do not have this up-to-date situation, which countries and how much credit has been raised. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u50	Like this. — and Mr Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u51	Mr President! Regrettably, on this stage of representative democracy, we have witnessed an all-time spraying attempt. In relation to its own EU policy, the Coalition Party has tried to turn in one direction and another in order to please everyone. When this recovery package began to be discussed after it had been negotiated in Brussels by Prime Minister Marin, the assembly was in a bad place because they were always used to bowing to the EU because they expect the Commissioners' posts and other positions to come from there. It was said of this package that it was not in their liking, but at the same time they did not tell me whether they were going to pour it. We have been in a state of being here in Parliament for a year now, but not long ago, even though the year has been dealt with, the Coalition Party refused to tell the people openly how it felt about this. Well, then the parliamentary group in the Assembly held a group meeting in which they announced that every Member of Parliament would have to, the group discipline made a binding obligation to abstain. In other words, when a Member of Parliament has been voted in this House, that is to say, the voters in the Coalition Party, that they would use that vote for them, they, the Members of Parliament, were taken away from that vote and said that you must not be in favour and not be in favour of this package. This is the beginning of a huge social storm, absolutely incomprehensible. Understandably, the voters in the coalition felt that they had been deceived, because now their vote is not being used for or against, but we are trying to get this package through when we abstain, and with the votes of the government parties this package would go through. Well, then many members of the coalition came forward and said that they were being influenced by information, which was incomprehensible. So, of course, citizens have the right also after they have sent their own representative to Parliament to contact him and ask him what he thinks and will certainly defend the interests of Finland for which he has been sent, but they only complained that they are being tried to influence them in this way by trolling them. But when the rich people in the business world put in the feedback that now we need to get this EU recovery package through, then there was no further message that they were being influenced by information.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-06-ps-53.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
