ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u2	Congressman Elomaa will begin. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u3	Mr President! First Kaipola left, then Naantali's refinery was razed off the maps, and Neste's billion-dollar investments went to Holland. Now the green shift, which the Prime Minister had acclaimed, hit Kemi, and Stora Enso shuts down the Kemi Kile Luoto paper mill. The city’s largest employer will soon be history and more than 600 unemployed today. The green transition will sow its destruction — where next? What is the government's message about the future prospects for the companies that are still operating here? We need to put an end to the dismantling of these factories, and Finland must be able to be a better option for businesses, for everyone, from just a small to the biggest. It is a question of people's jobs, it is a question of the livelihood of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u4	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u5	Mr President! Is Secretary Haatainen here? I can't see the other side. He's in charge of this whole, and I'm sure he can complete it. This is, of course, a very serious blow to the Kemi region, to workers and families, and this is a very unfortunate decision. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy is preparing a support package to support the region and people in this very difficult situation. It is good that in the past Metsä Group has announced a new investment, a significant, substantial investment in that area, and the state has made solutions in this area, for example, with regard to these transport infrastructure decisions. So we are investing significantly in the new infrastructure in that area so that this new Metsä Group investment can take place, but at the same time, of course, this drop in demand for paper is behind this Stora Enso decision. This is a very unfortunate decision and preparatory work is being carried out at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to support the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u6	Minister of Labour Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u7	Mr President! This closing of the knife bullet factory is a very big blow. It is a major blow to the entire regional economy, but equally, of course, to the workers who have worked there. What is being done in this situation: we already have experience in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy — unfortunately — of a number of such restructuring stages, which have created a certain systematic approach to this. I would like to thank you for having done so in that area. The city of Kemi like the Ely Centre and the Employment and Economic Development Office have immediately gathered and reviewed the situation that could be done. What is essential now is that those who are not working are able to move from work to work, and that is where we are investing in training, we are looking for all the support measures and services that can help us to find employment in that area, then in another possible job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u8	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u9	Mr President! The strength of the Red-Green Government is not an assessment of the consequences of decisions. It will not even listen to its own, because the Government's report has just stated that Finland's more ambitious climate policy than other EU countries is detrimental to employment. Companies are closely monitoring policy decisions and constantly assessing their impact on their activities, most of the time ahead of the economy. The Marin government is making climate policy by fire and is very inflexible in its actions. What is the Government’s assessment of the impact of the climate action in this parliamentary term on Finland’s economy and employment, and what are the reasons for this assessment? Does the government have the backbone to acknowledge the harmful effects of its policy on domestic industry? For example, the rapid shutdown of peat production is the bottom line.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u10	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u11	Mr President! Mr Elomaa’s question — this time I praise the question, usually I do not do it — was a good one. We probably do not have the calculation of how much government climate policy has increased and increased investments. Of these recent news reports, this bioproduct factory in Kemi, which is the largest forest industry investment in the Northern Hemisphere, which has been made, is part of this series. The recent news that the battery industry, its raw material base, is also being promoted by billions of investments in Vaasa is part of this series. But instead, the knife bullet factory is not part of this series. The fact that the demand for paper in the world is reduced in such a way that the company has to stop its factory in both Finland and Sweden does not have anything to do with the government's climate policy. Nor do I think it would be worthwhile to create the wrong justification for the reasons on which business decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u12	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u13	Madam President! The competitiveness of companies consists of a wide range of elements, including wage costs. Internal devaluation, i.e. cutting earnings, is politically difficult, but it is also difficult because the taxation of earned income in Finland is very strict, and... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u16	Congressman Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u17	Mr President! In a way, Mr Halla-aho's question suggests that we should start cutting social security, its financial base. That is no alternative to the fact that we actually have companies telling us that they need experts, professionals. This work-related immigration, how it is done: we have access testing, and it is based solely on the fact that if companies do not find any employees, experts in Finland or in the EU, they will also be able to recruit outside the EU. In other words, access testing is in place, and this is done in a controlled and systematic way. We need experts, but just as much when we look at this situation, for example, there have been unemployed people in Kemi. Perhaps you are referring to this same question in this context. We will do everything in our power to make use of the expertise of these people, to find a job, a job, and that is, of course, the first thing. But we can't get away with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u18	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u19	Madam President! Minister Lintilä! Last October, my parliamentary assistant sent you a petition signed by hundreds of chemists to secure the future of the Knife Luoto factory. The petition appealed to the Government to ensure that Finland would be a good environment for companies to act and invest in. The traditional handover to you personally, Minister Lintilä, according to your assistant, was not successful because of your haste, so the petition and the signature list were sent electronically to your assistant on 19 October 2020. So you couldn't have come as a surprise to stop the knife bullet factory. My question now is: what measures did you take to secure the employment of 670 people in Kemi?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u20	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u21	Madam President! I do not know what the time has been when this petition has been, and I am sure it has not been successful, unfortunately. But I am actually referring here to what the management of the company has said and what has also been said here. If the market melts below — the demand for paper has been falling for the last 10 years and now exponentially for the last year, you could almost say — then no company, a stockbroker, will be left to run a loss-making business. They're gonna make their own decisions, like Stora. Enso did in this case and also closed on the Swedish side. What options would we have had to improve that cost competitiveness? We have reduced energy taxes on industry to a minimum in the EU, and we have improved it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u24	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u25	Mr President! Yesterday, the Commission set out the criteria for sustainable financing. This is a so-called taxonomy classification, and I know that Finland too has worked hard from the perspective of the forest industry to make Finland's forests sustainable, so that they receive funding and are not placed on the so-called blacklist. Unfortunately, however, the Commission’s proposal, which can no longer be changed, can either be accepted or brought down by a Member State, had some bad points: Finnish forestry is not classified as sustainable, necessarily. It may affect funding and the willingness of the forestry industry to invest, and, worst of all, it will increase bureaucracy, because a climate and forest plan must be drawn up for more than 13 hectares of forest farms. Do you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, accept that this Commission proposal goes through? At least in my view it is detrimental to the Finnish forest industry, undermining the willingness to invest,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u26	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u27	Mr President! This line came from there yesterday, and we, together with Sweden, have, of course, tried to influence the content of this line. I myself and Prime Minister Löfven have sent a letter to the President of the Commission on this and last week also discussed this issue with the President of the Commission. Finland and Sweden brought in many aspects of that solution that we were pursuing, but not all of it, and this whole is such that environmental organisations on the other side blame the fact that it is too soft, and then on the other side, not all of these objectives, which we have been promoting, have been taken into account in all respects. We get to know this whole very carefully and we are actively discussing this whole with all stakeholders, but we have done a lot of impact work on this issue together with Sweden. For us, of course, the forestry industry, the success of the forestry industry, competitiveness, is of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u28	Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u29	Mr President! When the plant’s pipe stops blowing, the multiplier effects are great: large numbers of people are unemployed from both the factory and subcontractors and other stakeholders. As demand for paper decreases, it is clear that competition will become more intense, but when demand for paper decreases, it will not stop, as may have already been the case here with some answers. We still have some paper mills in Finland, and coal and peat play a major role in these factories. Do you, Mr Government, have the will to support these remaining paper mills so that they can compete in this competition in Europe and globally?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u30	Minister Lintilä
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u31	Madam President! Of course, the government's will is to take care of the competitiveness of companies, and these activities are currently being carried out at the Regulation House to ensure that we are able to secure the competitiveness of companies and Finnish jobs. If I return to this unfortunate situation in Kemi, then of course we must first ensure that we do what Mr Haatainen referred to: retraining, as many jobs as possible for those who are losing jobs. But perhaps the most important thing is for us to make effective use of this area, this institution, and I can say that the first negotiations have already taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u32	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u33	Mr President! In the sad situation of the knife bullet, as many as 600 jobs may be lost in Kemi. It has been said here several times that the decline in paper consumption in the world is the reason why this is happening here in Finland, but the factories are also staying somewhere. They will not be removed everywhere, and the reason why is now from Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u38	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u39	Mr President! There have been extensive local agreements in the forest industry, i.e. there are ongoing agreements at local level in the factories and there is a search for such a whole that the factory is profitable. In many cases, although wage costs per person in Finland may be higher than in some control countries, the overall wage costs are not so high, because a smaller number of people have been able to work very effectively precisely because many of these things have been agreed at local level. So this is the reality that those factories have, and I know it when I talk to these people who work there. In other words, a wide range of local agreements are concluded, and that is a good thing. It is important that we work together to ensure that industrial activity is profitable here and that we will have industrial jobs in Finland in the future, and the government will work for it and for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u40	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u41	Mr President! The news of the knife bullet was very heavy, and, as has been said here, paper consumption is beyond our control. Instead, these clues about Finland’s climate policy and how it would take industry away from Finland sound a little strange from the point of view of what the technology industry has said for the past 12 April: “Product policy. More and more environmental requirements are being imposed on products.’ And we in Finland know how to do this: in factories products in an environmentally friendly way. On the other hand, the forest industry itself said on 22.9.2020: ‘Energy efficiency is a competitive factor for plants’. Now that Halla-aho is running competition on wage costs, I don't think this is going to go along with the actual experts in the industry. That is why I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: how does the government intend to promote these industrial needs in a climate and environment-friendly way?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u42	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u43	Madam President! It is true that Finnish energy expertise, waste management issues are highly sought after in the world and climate issues are increasingly important for companies when negotiations are taking place. At the time when I was still able to travel, there are quite a few delegations in the world, and Finland is interested in knowledge and energy competence. The fact that Finnish companies are world leaders in developing energy expertise is definitely a selling asset and a asset to us in increasing our exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u45	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u46	Mr President! I want to tell you a little bit about that ratio. When 700 factory jobs are lost directly from the 20,000 inhabitants of Kemi, perhaps doubling it at the worst in the subcontracting chain, it would correspond to the direct disappearance of 20,000 jobs from Helsinki, the capital, with 40,000 subcontracting chains. This is about the backbone of Finnish industry, which is located around the smaller and larger cities of this country, and although of course the government is not responsible for the demand for the paper market, where it can be made the most competitive, it will continue to be done. Of course, what the government is responsible for is an industrial policy line, and it was right that the electricity tax on industry should be lowered. Hopefully, the support for electrification will now continue. But what is the industrial policy line that supports the competitiveness of this country? That is what I would like to ask the government: how do you ensure that competitiveness is improved and not weakened?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u47	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u48	Madam President! Of course, taking care of Finnish competitiveness is quite a wide-ranging entity in which it is energy that plays a very dominant and important role. As I said earlier, work has been done on this and, as I said before, we are currently doing at the Regulation House that we are not endangering Finnish competitiveness. It is equally affected by the situation in the labour market, i.e. the situation of the social partners, which then affects the cost of work. And then, of course, well, can I say, the rising is the obtaining of a trained workforce, more and more are being asked for a trained workforce. This is definitely something that we, the government, should take even better care of. We are having a debate on work-related immigration. This is precisely based on the fact that we have quite a lot of areas where we do not have a trained workforce, and this is certainly one of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u49	Congressman Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, as a former paper worker, I can say that a lot of local agreements are being made in factories today. And certainly not the kind of factories where the pulp mill is in the integratet, yes, it is peat and coal that need it. But as a former paper worker, I also understand well the moods in Kemi’s Knee Luode have received news of the factory’s closure. It is good that the government has already promised support for employees and the Kemi region. It must also be ensured that Stora Enso assumes its social responsibility. Workers must be offered opportunities for retraining and support for change. There has been a lot of public talk recently about employment measures, and the right-wing opposition has called for cuts in unemployment security. I'd like to ask Minister Haatainen: How many people who were unemployed due to the closure of the factory would be employed by cutting their unemployment benefit? On the contrary, should unemployment benefit not be improved in such situations?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u52	Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u53	Thank you to the representative for the important question. The representative is quite right in saying that: There is now a great need for support and security for these people, and that is what the Kemi region needs — that is, as a region, as a regional economy — but also, of course, the workers of the factory who are unemployed in Kemi. And now we are mapping out all of this at the moment, what different kinds of support we can receive. And I'm on my way to visit Kemi as soon as I can get out of the frame bar. Unemployment security in the welfare state is, after all, the very central support and security. We must remember that there are people working in these factories who have gone there from different starting points. Many have done their entire career there and have grown old. For many, that knowledge is strong for the very work that is demanding, but when you are in a situation where the work ends, you face the question of how we can [The President : Minute! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u54	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u55	Honorable Speaker! Now that the government has not yet agreed on these frameworks, would it really be time to address those key issues, which is why industry and industrial jobs are leaving Finland? Jämsä, Naantali, Kemi. We're only halfway through the government term. Has anyone really figured out why these factories and industrial jobs are leaving here? Will these decisions be affected by the Government’s climate policy choices, such as compensation support for emissions trading, or even the price of electricity? What about the generous forms of aid in the competitor countries, even though the Dutch patent box, which provides relief for innovative business activities and attracts R & D investments? We should have more R & D investments in Finland and we should have more companies committed here. Could a good government, as a spending limits decision, bring to Finnish industry a new form of support that keeps jobs and the well-being they create in our home country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u57	Minister of Finance Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u58	President! I'm sure there's a question here, one like that, in the direction of the minister. All three examples of how industry has left Finland have their own background, their background in this area, and the reason for the paper has come up many times. The consumption of paper is falling in the world and, unfortunately, companies are forced to take it into account. There has been a call for an alternative to local settlement. We all know that in the forest industry they have moved on to company-specific agreement, and surely Stora Enso also knew that the next round would take place on a company-by-company basis. We must stick to industry by investing in knowledge and ensuring that the workforce is available, whether domestic or foreign. We have stable, reliable and affordable access to energy, to electricity, and I would argue that Finland has acted in an exemplary way — I have not heard that, for example, there is a reason why industry would pull its activities down —
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u59	Let's move on to the next item. — Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u60	Mr President! The government has in its hands the future of welfare services — no more, no less. The Government's decisions will decide the direction of Finland for years to come. As we all know, our common well-being comes only from working and trying. And this tragedy of the Knife Luoto is only over when the unemployed have found a new job. Now we are measuring the government: are you able to make decisions that allow more and more Finns to support themselves and their families with their own work? So I ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen: are you committed to making decisions in the debate, which, according to experts from your own ministry, actually increase employment and strengthen public finances? Are you sticking to the fact that the government is doing impressive employment reforms and not trickery?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u61	Minister of Finance Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u62	Mr President! It is precisely because we are making decisions that will move forward for the next two years. And the decisions include not only economic decisions, but also the decisions on government spending limits, but also the employment decisions you mentioned. This is what they're gonna do in the frame bar. I am not trying to open up at this stage, while negotiations are still ongoing, which is the result.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u63	I would ask those representatives who want to ask this supplementary question to press the V button and stand up. — Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u64	Mr President! The equation of well-being is ultimately very simple: the joint cake grows when there are more Finns working and entrepreneurs have the opportunity to take risks and hire people. Now that this spending limits argument has been followed by the media, this uncertainty, it seems that all government parties have understood the seriousness of the problems in Finland at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u67	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u68	Mr President! In the Government Programme drawn up two years ago, the level of expenditure was increased, but, as I remember it, an increase in revenue of EUR 700 million has been agreed on here in Parliament. Similarly, the first significant part of the employment decisions, which will also reduce this gap, has been taken, and the mid-term review that is now under way will take the following decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u69	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u70	Madam President! As a former Minister of Finance, monitoring the news has sometimes been a bit like a bad dream. Of course, the negotiations are still under way, but from the media data it appears that the principles of responsible economic policy have been thrown out. The Prime Minister has apparently suggested that the spending limits procedure already in force since the time of Lipponen—Soinistö would no longer be in force, but that the spending limits could be exceeded by EUR 900 million over the coming years. The framework is not just a rhetoric or a word, it is protected from politicians who waste a Finnish taxpayer. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Vanhanen, whether you wish to remain in history as the Minister of Finance, during which this good economic policy principle, which works, is thrown out of the ground?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u71	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u72	Mr President! As a result of the interest-rate crisis, the decision on the spending limits for the Government term has already been deviated from it, with significant deviations from it in 20 years. In other words, this decision has already been taken during this period and, of course, I take my own responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u73	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u74	Mr President! In connection with the budget debate, information has been received through the media that the budget lines of the state would be widened by EUR 850 million. Whether higher or smaller, this is probably partly the reason why EU payments increase to more than EUR 200 million. Is this true, and what are these payments, Minister Vanhanen?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u75	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u76	Mr President! This additional EU budget for the corona crisis will, as I recall, cause us some more than... — well, an additional figure of about 200 million in size next year. The following year it will contract to a significantly smaller one. So it's true.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u77	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u78	Thank you, Mr President. According to the media, the mid-term employment measures would only slightly strengthen public finances, but would increase central government expenditure. The government's energy and tax policies should support employment and economic growth and should not harm them, as has already been seen so many times and now again in Kemi. We must ensure that our country has a consistent fiscal and energy policy based on affordable and domestic energy, such as peat, which supports employment, economic growth, competitiveness and purchasing power, and above all increases the predictability that business needs. Mr President! I would like to ask the government: when, in the name of emission reductions, you continue to fanatically promote ideological climate policy and weaken our cost competitiveness, what is the final price of the toxic green transition that you are prepared to pay as runaway investments and jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u79	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u80	Mr President! I do not know whether it is fair to Stora Enso either, that the idea that the closure of this plant in Finland would have something to do with the price of energy is being repeated in this arena.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u83	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u84	Madam President! Now that this is happening all the time, that we have somehow a very high energy price for industry, that is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u87	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u88	Madam President! It seems that you will once again solve all the problems with additional debt. However, unemployment in this country is getting worse. It is good that you wake up to the situation of the Knife Luo even afterwards, but you have not intervened so vigorously in the event industry. Stuba Nikula of the Helsinki Event Foundation tweeted: “Tour,Provinssi,Ilosaari RockEarth class. Canceled program buys for domestic bands? A million. Cancelled service purchases? Four million. Cancelled service turnover? [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u89	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u90	Mr President! This certificate will be examined by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Minister Kiuru can certainly tell more about it, but with regard to events, cultural, sporting and sporting activities, it is precisely yesterday that the government has taken a significant decision to support this sector with EUR 230 million, because we want to support this sector and we see that it has been in distress because of the corona. Yesterday we have also announced our plan to dismantle this restriction, our exit plan, which contributes to providing the event sector, the cultural sector, the sports sector with a view to the summer that events can be organised, and hopefully the disease development is now moving forward in a favourable way, with the use of vaccinations, allowing us to have big events here in Finland, for example in the late summer. But Minister Saarikko will be happy to share this support package and Minister Kiuru will be happy to comment on this state of preparation of the certificate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u91	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u92	Mr President! Mr Heinonen is right in many ways in his question, first of all that the event industry is huge in scale and, perhaps, not until the corona crisis, we decision-makers and Finnish society have understood its value and scale. You are also right that financial support, which the State is capable of demonstrating, will of course not compensate for all losses as if never. It is also a matter of intellectual capital, which we have lost during the year, when all this has been gone, not to mention the euro, which is also the result of regional economic events. But yesterday there were two good news: this package of financial support, an additional 65 million for freelancers on top of the past, and the guarantee support for events, the back of the state to it if the planned event due to the interest rate has to be cancelled or reduced. And the most important news from yesterday was the improved interest rate situation, in the light of which we dared to make public the opinion of the public, listening to the exit plan, the opening-up of restrictions,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u93	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u94	Mr President! This is another difference of attitude between the left-wing government and our thinking. This support is of course important in a crisis, but it would be even more important for these organisers, musicians and all those around them to be able to do their job, and that is where this corona passport would provide a faster solution so that those events next summer can be organised. But this same thinking also goes through this employment policy. Almost all of your means of employment are based on the fact that taxpayers' money buys jobs, while it would be far more important to create the tools by which the company dares to grow, invest, hire employees. They should now be considered, not different methods of trick-employment. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, or the Minister for Labour, whether you have on the table not only these tricks of employment, but also the right ways to create jobs for businesses?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u95	Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u96	Mr President! The representative of Orpok — taking into account his background — is well aware of the importance of education and skills, because professional skills are strong. And that is why the government in particular invests in strengthening the knowledge path, in continuous learning, so that we have skilled employees in the right places. The second question, which was raised here, is the issue of work-related immigration, which we need in order to be able to fill this skills gap. These are not trick jobs. Today, all research shows that the emphasis on knowledge is far more than anything on how to influence the emergence of new entrepreneurial activities and the presence of skilled workers in companies, because it is the largest capital needed at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u97	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u98	Mr President! The Minister of Labour, Mr Haatainen, told us well about the package we use to ensure that there is a workforce in Finland, a skilled workforce, and thus the prerequisites for companies to succeed and seek growth. But on this other side, of course, there are measures to improve productivity, the measures that we can use to help companies invest and seek growth and success, and it is quite true that both of them mean something. We need a skilled workforce, we need a job supply, and we also need to improve labour productivity, those measures on the investment side, in the research that we are looking for together. This is also why I have invited opposition parties together with the government parties next week to discuss how we can raise Finland's research, product development, innovation contributions to 4% by 2030. This is an extremely important issue for the nation as a whole and I hope that it will be a question where we will find a consensus in a parliamentary, cross-party way, because we will need to improve productivity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u99	Mr Sjöblom, on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u100	Mr President! The interest rate has increased people's uncertainty about livelihoods. The layoffs and the end of work have brought grief to too many kitchen tables. According to the information about the government's dispute, you are offering unworked Finnish medicines that will only affect people in a decade's time. So I ask Prime Minister Marin: is the government going to make decisions which, according to the Ministry of Finance's assessment, would improve employment in the next few years rather than in a decade's time, and what are these solutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u101	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u102	Mr President! We are looking for effective employment measures. We are in the middle of the interlocutory negotiations, as described here, and we will then come together to discuss the solutions that we can find together. We have a wide range of activities on the table, and these measures have been taken up to now, but many actions will have consequences not only in the short term but also in the longer term. One example is, for example, the extension of compulsory education, the decision that we have taken in the past and that has been approved by Parliament. Yes, this is an action that is already coming to these young people, but of course it will only be visible when young people are trained, thereby strengthening their skills, and it will also enable us to strengthen employment. In other words, many of these measures will have impacts both in the short term and in the longer term, and the scale of these impacts will of course depend on the scope of the review.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u103	Then we'll go to the next theme. — Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u104	Madam President! A recent survey by the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare and THL shows that family difficulties and the need for support for children’s welfare customers have increased significantly as a result of the corona epidemic. The number of child welfare customers and child welfare notifications is increasing. Both children’s and parents’ mental health problems have increased as a result of the corona. Student care would be an effective way of providing young people with low-threshold assistance in good time, but the services are not working. Problems are caused by the poor availability of children's and youth psychiatry, as well as school services and student care services for the clients of child protection. Let me ask you something. What measures will be taken to improve the situation in child protection and to invest in the assistance needed by families, especially children and young people? Does the government intend to promote low-threshold services, for example in the area of student care, by increasing compulsoryity, perhaps even introducing some kind of dimensioning into the law?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u105	Minister Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for a very good question, and it is, of course, nice to say that we have already prepared to bring the dimension here to Parliament. There are both school cranes and school psychologists in Finland — in fact, in some municipalities, in some schools the situation is quite good, but in many places the situation is very bad. That dimension and its funding for the municipalities will be brought to this Chamber, and I hope, of course, that it will proceed quickly. Unfortunately, however, that service chain needs a lot more than that, which is why, as has been highlighted here, the problems are now very large and they were already before the corona, which is why the government has already tackled this issue in the past, and they have now become more acute. We need significant additional resources for that part of the school, and they have already been given, but they are also needed for that part of the social and health services. Perhaps more of these will be heard from Minister Kiuru, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u107	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u108	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen raised a very important theme, and I would like to continue this theme from the point of view that today is the student mental health day, and the corona crisis has weakened the mental health and well-being of students. For example, many students of the first semester have started their studies completely remotely and have not been able to join the student community in a normal way. Nor has Korona time made it easier for students to move to a new place of study, how they can then get there. Under the leadership of the responsible Minister for Science and Culture, Saariko, the Government has done many things to improve the situation of university students. Among other things, support has been provided to higher education institutions and student unions. As a long-term activity, the Government has increased the starting places for higher education institutions and granted psychological qualifications to the University of Oulu. Mr President! I would like to ask: what measures does the government intend to take to promote the mental health of students and their well-being in the longer term, both during this time of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u109	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u110	Mr President! First of all, it is very important that Mr Aittakumpu raised this question because, in the case of children and young people, we talk a lot about mental health problems and their treatment, but perhaps we do not pay attention to the situation of these young adults. However, they too are young people, and this is particularly relevant for university students. There have been two problems with access to services for a long time. The second has now been resolved, i.e. since the beginning of the year, university students in polytechnics and university of applied sciences are on the same line in the availability of services, i.e. the task is transferred from the municipality to the Student Health Care Foundation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u113	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u114	Mr President! This question is important and I will continue with Minister Kiuru's answer. Indeed, the big structural change is that students are now on an equal footing with their own health services, FSHS, both at universities and at universities of applied sciences. And yes, I think that the government made a perfectly correct and wise policy last spring by adding a special measure to the starting points of higher education, because we knew that the draw on working life was not right in the middle of the crisis and that the experience of idleness and uncertainty was unreasonable. That is why the number of starting places has so far increased by 10,000. . In addition to this, the acute interest rate measure is indeed the welfare allowance targeted at the student unions, student unions, universities, where the core is now mainly distance services, peer support, support for student guidance, and I would like to thank the Finnish universities for their cooperation over the past few months, and we have also set a target level for achieving every student in one way or another during distance connections. It is humane and humane.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u115	This is important, and I am sure we will continue with other questions, but now we will move on to the next issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u116	Congressman Fake.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u117	Madam President! Let us continue to increase employment. Finland needs investment in new technologies, because in the economy some industries are growing and others are shrinking, and this has always been the case. The most promising of the growth sectors is electrification — Finland has unique competitive advantages. Helsingin Sanomat wrote on 19.4: “Finland has been born with a significant concentration in the battery industry: investment in three factories can increase in total to up to This is not just about the Vaasa battery plant, although it is extremely important. Minister Lintilä, your ministry published a national battery strategy in January. How do we ensure that a promising start will become a large and employment-rich sector throughout the country? Is this really not a very good example of how the green transition will create growth and jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u119	Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u120	Mr President! It is true that this green transition, which some people slander, is a very big business opportunity for Finland, and the battery industry is an example of this. Last summer, I launched a national battery strategy that was completed on this side of the year. It is the first national battery strategy in the world, and it is currently being monitored in the world, and interested in it. It is for investors, could you say, a road map of what has been done in Finland, what they want from battery operations in Finland and what it is like to operate in Finland on the battery side? How this goes on: I think it's been a couple of weeks since I appointed a cooperation body for this battery industry, which will continue to work on your battery strategy to implement your facility and make it concrete, and at the same time will help these investors, who are very much interested in Finland at the moment. We have a few negotiations relatively
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u121	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u122	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that the Swedish Parliament also regrets and deeply regrets this closure of the Kemi plant, and we absolutely support all the support measures in this regard. We cannot influence listed companies or global consumer behaviour either, but there is much we can do when we consider the general operating conditions. And yes, this decision by British Johnson Matthey to invest the next huge battery material factory specifically in Finland and, in this case, Vaasa shows that Finland is also doing well in a very tough international race. When I myself have been following the witch for quite many years, yes, the supply of clean, green energy is one of the most crucial factors in this case. But I would ask the government: what other new means should we have in the toolbox in order to attract more and more investment, jobs and, in particular, research activities by international actors in Finland, and thus new excellence?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u123	Madam President! When investors are sought, one, could say, the basic starting point or what the company is seeking is predictability, the fact that the country of destination has predictability in terms of taxation, energy and so on. However, Finland is relatively stable. Although it sometimes seems that we go from side to side in this Chamber, we are still an investment in a relatively stable place. After that, we'll go over the cost, of course. But the trained workforce that has already been mentioned will rise even further — the world is fighting hard for those with the highest level of education, could you say, the best of them, and getting them to Finland is extremely important, because then they will bring more. But the key issues are precisely predictability, energy, labour, then logistics and so on. But it must always be remembered that each investor makes decisions about their own needs and the aspect that best suits them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u124	Then the last question of this Question Time is about a different theme. — Representative Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u125	Mr President! I'll continue with the employment theme. We are in a situation where the population of Finland is ageing and the population is increasing only through immigration. Of course, in the event of change, we need continuous learning and retraining, but we also need more people from elsewhere. We need a skilled workforce for companies to grow, more care workers to maintain the services needed by the ageing population. Many comparisons have shown that work-related immigration is the point where Finland has fallen behind, for example, Sweden and is one of the reasons why our economy has not grown at the same pace as our neighbour. In order to succeed or even to survive in the future, we need more workers here, and we also need to learn to hold on to them. The government has improved processes and made it easier to come here, but there is still a lot of work to do. So I ask Minister Hatainen: how much work-related immigration should be increased in the government's view, and what measures should be taken to achieve this in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u126	Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-22-ps-44.u127	Mr President! Finland needs expertise and expertise, and our companies in particular do. That is why the government has now set out to build working processes, working paths, so that these processes can be as fast as possible. So we speed up these processes and are also building a special fast lane for specialists and startups. The representative asked for this amount. I am going so far as to look at this issue that we need to see what our companies need. So, of course, we must first use all the means available to us to use our own know-how and to put the workforce in the right places. But the companies need it, and we're leaving it to wrap it up. We have seen different things, and there have been different scenarios of what the need for skills is like with this demographic change, and that is why we need more workers from elsewhere, because the population is ageing and our new age groups are unable to fill this gap. A precise, exact number is difficult to say, but I think it is important for us to be aware of what that magnitude is and also to make the processes work and then to pay attention to it.
