ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u1	Due to the technical problem, we take a technical break, about 10 minutes. The session will resume at 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! We have technical problems which will lead us to try to get started so that we can move on to one point. If it doesn't work, we're gonna have to take a half-hour break. The situation will then be assessed as to whether the problem could be resolved. Microphones and registration are not working at the moment. I'm sorry about the situation, but this happens every once in a while. So there will be a half-hour break if this does not start when the system is moved forward. — Tension is condensing. Sorry. This test didn't work. We'll take a half-hour break, and then we'll be back at 2:50.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u3	Ladies and gentlemen! At least some of the technical problems have now been rectified and we will be able to resume the session. I note that there is no need for a new roll call. That information's gone through. If there is something to be corrected afterwards, it will be corrected, but now we will not open a new roll call so that we do not re-establish the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u4	The 2nd and 3rd issues of the agenda are the joint topical debate on two discussion initiatives on the implementation of the mental health strategy and the strengthening of mental health in working life, education and everyday life of all ages, and the discussion initiative on national substance abuse policy. The debate will be opened by the first signatories of the discussion initiatives, Tarja Filatov and Anna Kontula. Mrs Kiuru, Minister for Family and Basic Services, will speak next. The President shall then, in the order in which he is considering, give his response. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. There will be an hour and a half from now on for the discussion. I'm opening a conversation. — Mr Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u5	Mr President! We cannot afford to skip out on the promotion of mental health or the rapid treatment of mental disorders. Our welfare model requires a high level of employment and does not stand up to the social impact of weakened mental health. As early as 2018, the OECD estimates that the annual cost of mental health deterioration will amount to 11 billion, representing around 5.5% of GDP. The government's mental health strategy is an important opening. For the first time, mental health is recognised as a major social issue. The effective implementation of the strategy must not be forgotten in the post-column management, on the contrary: its implementation is essential for reconstruction. Mental health problems are not solved by health care alone or simply by helping the individual — those who are close to them need support. Mental health must be promoted in all political decision-making, especially in employment and education. This is an important, topical and wide-ranging issue, and that is why the Parliamentary Advisory Board on Mental Health, which is represented by all parties, wanted the whole Parliament to address this issue. Mr President! The good mental health of the working-age population strengthens economic growth. This is a prerequisite for many aspects of working life, such as adaptability, learning new things, creativity, problem-solving, interaction skills and so on. By strengthening mental health, it has been estimated that we could get up to 9,500 more jobs a year. Mental health disorders are the main cause of disability pensions. If disability pensions due to mental health can be reduced, the employment rate can also rise and GDP will be strengthened. We lose about 17 million working days a year due to mental disorders, and the number of sick leave days has increased by over 40 per cent from 2016 to 2019. We cannot afford to lose people on disability pensions or long sick leave at the current rate. We need early intervention and care models for working life and, more generally, effective and effective management of mental disorders. Mr President! Of course, mental health is not only about the economy and employment, but above all about the human and public health challenge. It is therefore also important to take care of the mental health of people outside the labour market. The mental health strategy has highlighted the building up of mental health in everyday life for children and young people. The well-being of the mind is built in families, school environment and hobbies. In these areas, cross-administrative implementation of the mental health strategy is extremely important. Korona and the loneliness it's caused have been mean friends. According to the latest school health survey, about four out of five respondents are satisfied with their lives, but this number of satisfied persons has fallen from the previous one. One out of every three girls in secondary school, about ten per cent of the boys, have experienced moderate or severe anxiety. Loneliness has increased in all age groups. Seventy per cent of university students have experienced difficulties in studying during the corona epidemic. Interest has also increased the differences between those who are doing well and those who are doing less well. About half of the mental disorders of adults are born before the age of 14 and three quarters before the age of 25, and it is therefore essential that we invest in young people. The psychosocial care debt will not go away even if 100% of us have been vaccinated, the economy will grow rapidly and employment will improve. It is now visible, and it is visible with a delay, and that is why we must do everything we can to speed up and improve access to treatment. We called it a treatment guarantee, a therapy guarantee, or whatever you call it, the most important thing is that people get timely help.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u6	Thank you. — And Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u7	Mr President! Intoxicants are an important social phenomenon. They play a prominent role in Finnish culture from festival traditions to sketch series. I'm also familiar with the drawbacks of substance abuse. Drug dependence is increasing and there are half a million problem alcohol users. The families of those suffering from intoxication continue to grow. Intoxicants are also about the economy. Tens of thousands of people work in the alcohol industry alone and in its trade. The tax revenue of legal intoxicants is considerable. On the other hand, intoxicants increase sick leave days, kill working age and are often involved in exclusion processes. Alcohol is estimated to cause nearly one billion and a quarter of a billion drugs per year in Finland. Mr President! In recent decades, Finnish alcohol policy has relied on the regulation of availability and drug policy on full criminalisation. The use of non-medical medicinal products and over-medication have mainly been considered as a question of adequate medical advice. The overall debate on substance abuse policy has been relatively limited. On the other hand, there are details: Can we sell beer at the bar? Under what conditions are opiate-based painkillers granted? Do you need puncture rooms? Should cannabis be decriminalized? It is common to these discussions that there is only one substance at a time in the arena, although in reality drugs are often used in confusion. When many have personal experience of the phenomenon and much fewer research data, the debate is also more vulnerable to emotions than to contributions based on knowledge. However, the shadows of intoxicants are still waiting for solutions. Only one out of every three people in need of treatment gets a drug addict. Because of Stigma, the group is also particularly vulnerable to other violations of justice. A significant proportion of crime, disorder, mental health problems, accidents and child welfare needs are linked to intoxicants. In addition to these familiar challenges, there are a number of developments which also call for a review of national substance abuse policies. Traditional drug crime is more organised than before, and digitalisation has opened up a whole new field of activity for drug trafficking. A clear trend is also the overlap between medicines and drugs and these legitimate and illegal markets. Mr President! A serious debate on substance abuse policy in Finland seems to be repeatedly becoming more urgent, even though significant substance abuse policy reforms have been or are being undertaken in many of our control countries. It is clear that in the next few years, the update of substance abuse policy will also become an agenda for us. The different actors in society challenge policy to take a position on at least the issue of criminal law regulation of use, regulation of the use of drugs containing drugs with intoxicating properties, access to substance abuse treatment, material testing, the trend in drug-related deaths and so on. Mr President! It is important that, when the rules of the game are updated, Parliament also assumes its responsibilities. Even today tens of thousands of Finns try to forgive their parents for things that no child should have encountered. It is today that thousands of parents wonder where their own child is and whether he is alive. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, there is nothing secondary, nothing that a politician who knows his responsibilities can pass on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u8	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u9	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of the initiative warmly for the opportunity to hold a debate on these important issues. Intoxicant abuse and mental health services are the subject of a common problem. Unfortunately, both services are still not sufficiently accessible. That is why it is valuable that we are now discussing this matter and that we are able to work together on the solutions that are currently being implemented under the Government Programme and also discuss what should then be done in the future. 86 per cent of Finns estimate their mental well-being to be at least moderate. Every year, 1.5 per cent of Finns become ill with some mental disorder. At least one in ten and perhaps even one in five Finns experience at least one severe period of depression during their lives. According to various studies, about 20-25% of young people suffer from mental illness and are among the most common health problems of schoolchildren and young adults, unfortunately. It is therefore honest to admit that mental health problems are the latest in Finland. The two subjects we are discussing are also intertwined because the co-existence of mental health and substance abuse disorders is more common than is thought. For example, about 10 to 30 percent of people with depression have drug abuse disorder at the same time. This is also visible in our health services. About half of those who visited the services due to substance abuse also had a mental disorder noted by the doctor. Mr President! The availability of mental health services is not sufficient across the country. This was already recognised during the Government Programme negotiations, which is why they wanted to make clear hand-outs of the way in which these services will be developed during this Government term. The key is, and the basis for finding a solution will be the tightening of the treatment guarantee. The health and well-being of Finns will be supported by tightening the treatment guarantee in accordance with the Government Programme. The health guarantee in primary health care will be tightened so that in the future, in the event of an emergency, treatment will be available within one week of the assessment of the need for treatment. At present, the deadline is three months. The week’s treatment guarantee applies to both psychological and somatic treatment, i.e. both physical and psychological treatment. This is important because patients with mental disorders have also been diagnosed with inadequately treated physical diseases. That's why we need both. They may not be studied if physical symptoms are interpreted as psychological or side effects of medicines. It is vital that a person receive the care he needs for all his problems, whether mental or physical. To remedy this situation, it is also necessary to dismantle treatment lines caused by coronapandemia. There are waiting lists and welfare debts left behind by the Koronapandemia, which must be patched up. Therefore, in addition to the investments made in the past, next year's budget proposal for the recovery and recovery plan will already allocate EUR 125 million to the dismantling of the social and health care, rehabilitation and service debt and to speed up access to care. The total number of decisions is 400 million. In addition, EUR 9 million will be allocated to support services for working capacity and measures to strengthen mental health and work capacity. A national mental health strategy, which has already been mentioned, and a suicide prevention programme, will be created for mental health services in the north. The strategy up to 2030 aims to ensure the continuity and ambition of mental health work. There are five projects funded under the Mental Health Strategy during this government period: firstly, the content development programme we are all familiar with, namely the Future Social and Health Centre programme, the suicide prevention programme, the strengthening of mental health skills in municipalities, the action programme for working life and good mental health, and perhaps the most crucial step towards the rehabilitation of mental health services for children and young people, particularly in the lower part of Finland, i.e. in practice the extension of the IPS – Invest and train – even around Finland. As individual withdrawals, I would like to mention the development of mental health services as part of the substantive reform. We lack basic, strong mental health services, and it is unfortunate that we do not even deal with these mild mental health problems at the basic level of Finland. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u10	Thank you. — Now it is hoped that technology will play. I would ask those representatives who want to take part in the debate to stand up and press the V button. — Representative Berg, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u11	Mr President! The mental health situation of young people has deteriorated as a result of the corona epidemic. Especially for girls, the situation is quite worrying. According to a recent school health survey, the anxiety experienced by young people has increased further and loneliness is also increasingly being suffered. In the school health survey, nearly one in three girls reported moderate or severe anxiety. In addition, about half of the young girls reported having encountered sexual harassment, which is very worrying. We are still in a situation where, by supporting young people, we can prevent the emergence of actual mental disorders. However, if there is insufficient support for young people in this situation, there is a risk that some young people will suffer from deterioration and mental disorders requiring care. How does the government intend to intervene in this situation already in the coming autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u12	Thank you. — And Mr Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u13	Mr President! We are discussing a very important issue at the moment. I think it is important that we also consider the reasons for these mental health problems because they do not fall out of the sky like lightning, they will develop at some point. It is now known that, for example, attention problems, also referred to as ADHD and ADD, are things that are not identified in early childhood education or in schools on time. We have so many adult people who have only been diagnosed in their 30s and 40s and sighed with relief when they understand what all their anxiety and depression and all the difficulties they have experienced in their lives are caused, and only then will they receive proper medication and treatment for this trouble. I ask the Minister how we could contribute to identifying both early childhood education and basic education.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u14	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u15	Mr President! I think it is very important that this topic of debate has been taken up here in the Chamber, and rightly this issue of substance abuse is also involved, because it is quite often difficult to judge which one was first, the substance abuse problem or the mental health problem, because many of these issues are intertwined. Quite often there are, for example, issues related to the change in the life situation — divorce, job dismissal, financial problems, etc. — that is, often the issue of a very wide range of vigour, which must then be resolved. One thing I have been thinking about is the readiness of the jobs to meet these people. For example, there are often a variety of problems behind work fatigue, and it is not just a matter of work. Often, in our workplaces, mental health problems are only encountered by giving people sick leave and a bottle of pills and then expecting people to heal themselves with it,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u16	Congressman Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u20	Thank you. — Representative Virta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u21	Mr President! I am very grateful, both personally and professionally, that this Chamber is holding this debate. When I was working in the field of mental health and substance abuse work, I could not help but hear the words of how people feel there is no interest in decision-makers or a genuine lack of will to intervene in these matters. It is sad that this is the case, because it is not about those who have problems — it is about all of us, about our society as a whole. We do not work for this world on the same basis; we do not know what life will bring, which one of us will face violence, who will have substance abuse problems, but all these issues will somehow be touched. Nothing is as disquieting as hearing a child or a young person say that he no longer wants to live, and nothing is so heavy a burden as fearing for his own loved one fights for help. I hope that it will be understood in this debate that we are not just talking about social services. We are talking about how to safeguard that childhood in this society, whether it is in the field of education, or how to take care of working life, how to earn a living, how to get that help, and how we do not stamp, we do not see the challenges of mental health and substance abuse.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u22	Thank you. — Congressman Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u23	Mr President! As chairman of the delegation on behalf of the child, I would like to express my concern about the situation of mental health services for children and young people. We also submitted a written question to the Left Alliance in the parliamentary group in the spring. Last year, there were as many as 170,000 contacts with the youth crisis-supporting Shekasin chat, only one in five of which could be answered. It is about the great need among our children and young people. There is also considerable regional variation in access to mental health services, which is a major problem for the equality of children and young people. Therefore, the whole chain of mental health services for children and young people does not work at the moment. Too often, too, the repeated experiences of parents who have to fight to get help for their child in time. It can’t be right for parents to depend on their activity to get help. I'd like to ask, how do we protect ourselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u24	Thank you. — Ledamot Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u25	Värderade Talman! Psykisk ohlsa är för tilfället den största orsaken till att en Människa blir arbetsoförmögen, och det kostar samhället billionaire årligen. Att prioritera den mentala älsan är oersättligt viktigt och det mänskliga välbefinnandet lustaså, men också en nödvändig investing som på sikt särtker både ekonomin och sysselsättningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u26	Mr President! The mental health strategy has rightly highlighted the mental health status of children and young people, as the basis for mental health, mental health of a lifetime, is built in homes and schools, from that time of early education. However, the mental health problems of older people should also be highlighted, as they have unfortunately become more acute now, after this long period of interest-bearing loneliness. Today is also the day for family carers, and there are indeed messages from family carers that this corona period has increased their loneliness and fatigue, because the workload has been more binding and heavier than before. My question is: how does the government now intend to intervene in this matter for the elderly and family carers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u27	Thank you. — Mr Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u28	Mr President, ärade talman! I've been very close to seeing the pain of drug addiction in the family. Drug use starts with mild substances and can be escalated to hard drugs. Then comes crime, and then the cycle is complete, and usually it leads to prison. I know the pain it brings in a family when you don't know where the child is and if he's alive. When prison calls, there's a sigh of relief when you know where he is. The shame that comes upon the parents and the fact that they are completely alone in this matter is terrible, because drugs are also available in prison. Therefore, it would be a good thing to consider whether the alternative to prison might be to have a child go to rehab. You could also include rehab on parole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u29	Thank you. — Mr Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u30	Thank you, Mr President. And first of all, I would also like to thank you for these initiatives. But is it really understood in this Chamber why there has been an increase in ill health among citizens recently? Yes, people are aware that things have not gone as far as Strömsö, and the fact that citizens are now, contrary to the Constitution, being divided into two castes with a vaccine passport does not make them feel worse. Now is the time to help all those in need, and the starting point is that we are starting to unite citizens... [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne :Microphones on end. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u33	Thank you. — And then Minister Kiuru, 3 minutes, substance abuse services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u34	Mr President! A few words on substance abuse policy so that this important issue does not fall short. In other words, there is also a lot of work to be done on national substance abuse policy. Some key figures: First, the number of problem alcohol users in Finland is estimated to be between 300000 and 500000 depending on the criteria. If you include those close to you who suffer from this, this question will also be addressed to a very large number of Finns. At the same time, drug use in Finland has increased in recent years, but as a public health problem, drugs do not exceed alcohol. With regard to drugs, national drug policy has been taken from the point of view of both prohibitions and harm reduction. I myself am focusing today on harm reduction, because it is on my property and it is also part of official drug policy. The starting point is that a number of measures are being taken to reduce the harm caused by drug use. One is the exchange of syringes and needles for clean people, opioid replacement treatments, health and service advice, peer training and detective work. These interventions are strongly evidence-based and solid practical experience and are then tailored to local circumstances and needs. The benefits of health advice for drug users are indisputable, the benefits are significant. For example, new HIV infections are at a very low level and there have also been many development efforts through health advice centres that have helped access to disadvantaged services. It must also be remembered that the economic impact is significant, since only one HIV-positive treatment cost between EUR 10000 and EUR 15000 per year. The availability of drug addiction treatment is lower than any other health problem. If it doesn't get us serious, then what does? It has to be said that in Finland it has been estimated that about 35 per cent of alcohol dependence is in treatment. It's really sad. This is not only because the use of substance abuse services is not sufficiently available. That's the problem. The lack of service provision is certainly a problem. But there are also major risks of social stigma, and among the addictions, there is also a ban on your own problem, which prolongs access to treatment. Important steps have been taken. Here are some: First of all, last year the Health Services Selection Council, PALKO, adopted a recommendation on psychosocial methods of alcohol addiction and rehabilitation — a very good thing. In 21 C.E. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u35	Thank you. — Mr Koskela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u43	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u49	Thank you. — There is now some interference with these microphones, and I regret that, but let us continue the debate. — Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u50	Mr President! Thank you to the authors of the initiative — important subjects. The Therapy Guarantee became a citizens' initiative in October 2019, and I understand that all parties welcome it. This is a matter in committee, and I ask whether the Minister has any information on how the matter is going in committee, and whether you are, by your own authority, in support of this initiative. The second point relates to young people. During this time of the corona, many young people have experienced anxiety, as is, of course, older ones, and one reason is that the hobby activity has been interrupted for understandable reasons and there has been an unfortunate drop in these hobbies. Does the government and you have a vision of how we can get young people who have dropped out of leisure activities back to, for example, physical activity and culture? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u51	Thank you. — And Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u52	Mr President! This is an excellent initiative for discussion. In Finland today, just as Mr Kontula said in his own speech, many parents are concerned about where the children are going or whether it was the other way around that the children are concerned about where the parents are. Well, whatever the way it is, it would be so important for that person to feel and know that you can always go home, always at home, father or mother, even at best both, and so that the child feels safe all the time so that you don't have to go on those side paths. Most of the time, when you go to the side paths, drugs come from there. I am a little surprised that there has been a debate in this Chamber about the release of cannabis, and we all know that, if cannabis is released, it will cause psychosis at its worst, among other things. There were stories in the papers that since their first use, their child has become psychotic and is in a serious situation. I'm glad he made it out of that situation. But here we are having a debate about the need to release cannabis, and then
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u53	Thank you. — Mr Forsgren, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u54	Mr President! I would also like to thank the authors of the debate initiative. The situation is truly alarming. I myself have seen how many people are exhausted during studies alone. Mental health problems are commonplace and are also reflected in statistics. Of course, the worst is human suffering, which is also reflected in the people around you. We must ensure that mental health problems are taken into account with sufficient seriousness. Above all, we must ensure timely assistance. We cannot continue to do this because people are increasingly on disability pensions because we have not been able to meet the needs for care when the treatment has been of the greatest benefit to both the individual and the society. It is important that the government has strengthened mental health competence in municipalities as part of the promotion of well-being and health. Among other things, the project will increase low-threshold meeting points and digital forms of support and strengthen peer support and expertise as part of the promotion of mental health. There is also a need for early intervention and care models for working life and, more broadly, effective and effective care of mental disorders.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u55	Thank you. — Mr Pekonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u56	Mr President! Mental health problems are the most common cause of transition to disability pension. Here we are going through a very worrying development. In 2016, the number of pensions granted for mental health reasons went up clearly, and as early as 2020, mental health illnesses for the first time became the main cause of disability pensions by way of musculoskeletal diseases. However, good examples of early intervention and prevention of early retirement can be found, for example, in the S-Group and the municipality of Hailuoto. Both of these employers have invested specifically in supervisory work and early intervention, and employees have also had the opportunity to receive short-term therapy, but it is essential that employees have been regarded as part of the working community and that the work has been tailored to people's ability to cope with it. In these cases, part-time sickness allowance or partial invalidity pension has been used. But the good thing is,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u57	Thank you. — Representative Bracelet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u58	Mr President! We all know that these mental disorders are a massive problem in society. Here, when you listen to this conversation, one of us mourns in the choir, is worried and is anointed. We want all the good things: we want more support, timely, impressive support, help and care, but, of course, at the present rate, it is not possible to do so, that is to say, in the current state of the art of the public sector, there is no help. As long as we do not prioritise matters, our resources will not be sufficient to ensure that we are properly able to care for the well-being of Finns and to provide them with the mental health services they need. HUS has such a project as the ‘Terapia frontline’, and we have informed the Treasury section that only10 or20 % of the
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u59	Thank you. — Mr Viljanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u60	Mr President! We are on serious business, as Minister Kiuru said. Drug use is increasing, and unfortunately the number of drug deaths has also increased in recent years. At the same time, access to treatment has become more difficult over the last ten years and access to treatment has decreased. People live in a very unequal position, depending on what happens to be their municipality of residence. On the other hand, services and service chains play, and there is no access to treatment elsewhere. We need to find solutions to this equation. Now the treatment is delayed and the problems are piling up. The requirements for those seeking treatment are sometimes unreasonable. Intoxicant abuse may require that someone seeking treatment is substance abuse to get to substance abuse rehabilitation — this logic does not work. There are many things that need to be improved, many things that work in our society. But above all, we need a change of attitude: seeking treatment for any person
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u61	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u67	Congressman Salonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u68	Mr President! Mental health illnesses are the most common single cause of sickness absence and disability pension in Finland. Nevertheless, the weakest legal services in Finland are provided by people with mental health and substance abuse problems. Intoxicant abuse policy and mental health policy are closely linked. Double diagnosis is common. Some 40 percent of those who suffer from alcohol problems at some point in their lives have a mental disorder independent of substance abuse. For people with drug problems, the figure is over 50%. The frequency can also be considered the other way around: about 30% of people with mental disorders also have substance abuse disorder at some point. It still requires an unfortunate amount of courage and resources on the part of individuals to seek treatment. That is why it is important for the sufferer to get immediate help for both problems if he feels he needs it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u69	Congressman Kosonen Hanna, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u70	Mr President! Psychiatrist Juhani Mattila said in Helsingin Sanomat that many people used to be depressed and anxious, but nowadays the most common syndrome is fatigue. When you're exhausted, nothing feels like anything, everything seems meaningless. The exhausted has, as it were, deeply lost his whole soul. Mattila points out that normal treatments alone, i.e. sick leave or medicines, may not solve the challenge at all, but delay recovery. It is essential that the mental health strategy is implemented, that people are treated as a whole and that the prevention of low-threshold activities in particular be invested. That is where we really have learning in Finland. In particular, I want to highlight the impact of art, music, physical activity and the support of loved ones. It costs nothing to ask a familiar question: How are you? It is wise to grasp the challenges of the mind as early as possible. At the workplace, at school and elsewhere, easy access to low-threshold discussion should be available.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u71	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u72	Mr President! Board of Directors, where's the therapy guarantee? The Coalition Party has presented a solution to these problems which we are discussing today and which seem to have a broad common understanding in Parliament. We must have better and faster, timely access to mental health services in this country. A citizens' initiative for a therapeutic guarantee was issued in the Parliament almost two years ago and it has been holding back for two years and has rested here waiting for some time and such a promise — perhaps from you, Minister Kiuru — that this issue could be taken forward in Parliament. Why are the Government parties holding back the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative in Parliament, and when will we be able to deal with this initiative, which the Coalition Party has already put forward in its alternative budget for EUR 35 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u73	Minister Sarkkinen, please. — 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u74	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for this very valuable debate. Many Finns are threatened with working ability or their careers are interrupted as a result of mental health problems. Intoxicant abuse also robs many people of their ability to work. In the light of mental health disorders, as has been mentioned here, the maximum amount of sickness allowance is already being reimbursed. Estimated cost of lost labour is approximately EUR 2.5 billion per year. The Government has taken action and launched a mental health programme for working life. The programme will increase the capacity of workplaces and occupational health care to strengthen the mental health of workers. The action programme aims to influence factors leading to or preventing disability pensions and sick leave. One of the core objectives of this programme is to change the mental health support and perspective of working life in a more preventive direction. Of course, people need help with their problems, but we need to look more and more at prevention, working conditions and management. The means for this project are the development of occupational health cooperation, the dissemination of mental health support methods and the strengthening of mental health competence. In addition, as Minister Kiuru mentioned, the use of the IPS — Invest and train mental health services that rehabilitate working life will be extended in Finland. Mr President! This corona crisis is like an iceberg: we may only see the peak of its effects. Underneath the surface there is likely to be widespread psychosocial problems and also increased substance abuse problems. It is important that the workplaces also ask their workmates, employees, ‘what is involved’ and that questions relating to mental health problems are addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u75	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u76	Mr President! Thank you for taking this initiative. This is an important conversation. After all, the need for mental health and substance abuse services has now increased; treatment queues have increased. Children and young people have different mental health problems in about 20 per cent. In addition, neuropsychiatric problems have increased. Mental health problems, especially depression, are the largest single cause group behind disability pensions. Drug use has also increased, and more and more young people are taking drugs. Drug deaths have also increased. Mental health and substance abuse problems are often intertwined and are therefore both public health and national economic problems. We therefore need low-threshold services where people with substance abuse and mental health problems would be able to get help quickly. And you don't always get it from the public sector. That is why I call for cooperation between the public, private and third sectors, and I hope that service vouchers and commitments will come to an end. That's what the therapy guarantee means, isn't it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u77	Thank you. — Congressman Koponen, Noora, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u78	Mr President! I think that we should create hope and a sense of security for every person, and that is where we are now discussing this strategy of mental health and substance abuse. Mental health challenges and substance abuse play a key role in the security of society. No one uses drugs for their evil, but they can capture a person, and no one will suffer from mental disorder, but it can be born to each of us. Intoxicant abuse and mental health problems often go hand in hand. Decrimination of drug use is not an incentive to use drugs; it is support for stopping drug use and seeking help. We must be able to get help for the challenges of mental health now and not only when we no longer want to live. It must be possible to help a mother who cries when she is too tired, or a child who feels that she is not enough, or a youth who wants to live a life of intoxication but has not dared to trust an adult to ask for help. Ministers,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u79	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u80	Mr President! Mental health problems have started to be discussed more openly, which is a good thing, because it is of course important for everyone that the body works out of the way. Thank you to Mr Filatov for raising an important point, as well as to Mr Kontula. When you look at the cones predicting the dependency ratio in Finland, you get serious. The number of working-age people continues to decline steadily, while the number of pensioners is increasing at an accelerated rate. The equation is not durable. It is quite clear that Finland must do everything in its power to ensure that the working-age group that supports our society also remains as capable as possible. In addition to physical factors, disability is increasingly caused by mental health problems. I think it is a good idea to promote cross-sectoral cooperation, even underlined in the initiative. I am concerned about the practical implementation of the mental health strategy. What the Government Has Already Done
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u81	Thank you. — Representative Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u87	Thank you. — Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Let's see if my microphone works. — First of all, I would like to express my warm thanks to the authors of the debate initiative. Mental health should indeed be promoted in political decision-making. In the case of children and young people, when we talk about mental health, too often, in my view, a new word emerges as 'climate distress'. I wonder whether it would be possible for us here to move to a more responsible political debate on climate policy. In this time, intimidation of disasters and the destruction of the earth is not conducive to mental health. That's where I ran into a young boy who wept under the "The Earth's Destroying Banderoll." I said, why are you crying? He said it was because the Earth was going to be destroyed. In particular, I would ask the Green Movement to consider what we are going to tell our young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u89	Congressman Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u90	Mr President! I must begin with a thank you to Minister Kiuru. You have told us well at the outset how many different operational programmes are in preparation, so this matter is at least serious in this government and by the Minister — an extremely important issue, and I think that each of us, as a friend or family member, has a person with mental health problems. The fact that substance abuse problems and mental health problems often go hand in hand has been credited with this, but we must remember the emergency and congestion that is currently present in the field for self-destructive young people, for example. Professionals tell us that when a suicidal youth comes into the emergency room, they have to make a rough assessment of the home conditions of a young person, and if you trust that you have watchful and safe parents at home, in the worst case, that suicidal young person can be released in up to a few hours. The distress and weariness that the parents have,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u91	Thank you. — Mr Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u92	Thank you, Mr President! In the opinion of the Finns Party, this access to treatment is of paramount importance, and in that sense the most recent question of what the Coalition Party did about the therapeutic guarantee: at what point does it go? But, of course, when I realize that that therapeutic guarantee requires so much, it also requires enough medical staff or therapists, and so on, that it can be implemented? One little new aspect of this very wide-ranging debate, I would like to point out that the world has changed so much that it often wonders if it will always change for the better. When you travel in those areas where you live a lot of families with children, I have noticed that there are often no children out there, and then, if you do, you feel that even a younger child has a mobile phone in the playground.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u93	Ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u94	Ärade talman, Mr President! First of all, thank you to the authors of the debate initiative, and also thank you for all the contributions. — Korona has indeed contributed to the mental well-being of all ages, but the mental health of children and young people in particular is concerned, and the feeling of loneliness and anxiety among girls has increased exponentially. As far as this welfare of children and young people is concerned, we must react now — otherwise it is like a ticking bomb.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the authors of the debate for this important debate. The use of drugs in our society is an ever-increasing problem, and that is why I even find it alarming that the debate on it is currently focused mainly on decriminalising or legalising the use of cannabis or other drugs. The majority of drug-related problems and, at the same time, the mild phenomena of drug use are a clear solution. It is an adequate and timely, high-quality treatment that takes into account the overall situation of the patient, various life-management problems and adequate support after release from treatment. At present, some people who need treatment do not receive it — at least not in time. A person with substance abuse problems may have to wait several months for a place to be treated, and access to a place of treatment will depend on:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u96	Congressman Eloranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u97	Mr President! Indeed, the school health survey that appeared in the summer revealed that children and young people... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u100	Thank you. — Representative Niemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u101	Thank you, Mr President. For some reason, the V button did not work, but I appreciate this speech in that sense. — Of course, my position as a police officer is totally negative on the use of drugs. I do not understand in this Chamber the speeches that believe that drugs should be released, allowed to be used, allowed to be held. Let me give you a few examples of my years of service: A young person destroys himself by going up on the tracks and showing the train that stop, or climb up to the roof of an apartment building and yells at his friends on the seventh floor: watch me fly. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, when part of the government thinks that drugs should be released? What is your personal position? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u102	Thank you. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u103	Mr President! At best, the work is therapy, and at worst, the work is exhausting. We have to do something, even if we cannot do it, we have to keep to the deadlines, even though quality is poor, we have to be social, even if it hurts. So mental health problems can be constantly present, but outwards they may not appear until physics fails. A forgetful, uninitiated and tired person can still be necessary from the perspective of working life. A lot of people have found help in therapy. It makes it easier to give your thoughts to someone else for a moment. President! We can influence the number of professionals in the mental health sector,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u104	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u105	Mr President! In Finland we have at least 22,000 so-called young carers, i.e. underage children or young people who take responsibility for their own parents or family members who do not belong to them. Most of them help or treat family members with mental health or substance abuse problems, but also a parent’s neurological or somatic illness can lead to a young care period. At present, these children and young people are not even identified and do not receive the support and assistance they need. Studies show that these children have more tiredness, loneliness, anxiety. They also skip more school and have less success in school. The risk of exclusion and other problems is thus increasing. My question to the Minister is: what can we do to identify, support and help young carers? These children and young people need their own help system, not ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u106	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, Mr Jari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u107	Thank you, Mr President. It has been a good conversation, and I believe that everyone has a genuine purpose for good. However, the debate must not go beyond the fact that the marginal minority is present in the debate by the driver. A new perspective is needed, as the respected representative of the THL said this week in the morning TV. He called for an addict to be confronted as a human being. Let me ask you a question. Why don't we really change our perspective? The supervision of substance abuse providers will be organised as well as the supervision of other care and care institutions. Change the treatment guarantee to a substance abuse guarantee and provide timely, adequate and long-term care. Strengthening trust in the providers of substance abuse care services, for example by prohibiting the involvement of civil servants and officials in companies, associations and foundations providing treatment. It could also be considered that it would be mandatory to take care of the police — even for the first time. There are, but very few in this Chamber, those who have had to secure the growth and development of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u108	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u109	Mr President! Indeed, there are often two types of problems — mental health problems and alcohol or substance abuse in general. There are, for example, those with alcohol problems, those who do not necessarily suffer from these so-called psychiatric problems, and then, of course, there are those who suffer from them and, so to speak, take these substance abuse products as medicines. Quite often it is because of something that makes you feel bad, which makes you feel inadequate or something like that, and today, at least, today's society does not improve that situation in any way. There's talk of climate anxiety all the time. They say you can't do without training. The demands are growing and growing. We don't really give.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u110	Thank you. — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u111	Mr President! Let us not underestimate the concerns of young people about the climate crisis. Young people will get researched information, and we must not question their concerns. They challenge both the green movement and the rest of us to do more. Compared to the population of Europe, Finland is one of the leading drug-related deaths. It is clear that we also need to change our operating models in terms of substance abuse policy so that people get help when they need it, and there is no problem preventing them from getting help for another challenge. It is a question of comprehensive well-being or nausea. Today evening we will soon be discussing the Helsinki Council Strategy, and it will be recorded if the Council approves the strategy that: Helsinki will introduce a therapeutic guarantee in 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u112	Congressman Honkasalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u113	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Kiuru, for bringing up the role of drug users. It has come up in this debate sadly little. A dignified life and a life free from suffering belongs to everyone, including those who use drugs. Narcotics policy is dragging its feet. It's not working. Drug-related deaths are on the rise. Drug users are at nine times the risk of premature death. Are we really going to stand idle in front of these facts? As has been well pointed out here, mental health and substance abuse are often intertwined, but the fact is that if you have a history of substance abuse, it is very difficult to get help with mental health problems. The attitudes towards drug users are very negative; they are also reflected in this Chamber. I would have asked Minister Kiuru: the City of Helsinki would like to pilot operating rooms and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has been approached for this purpose. What's up with this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u114	Thank you. — Representative S.H.I.E.L.D., please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u118	Congressman Lindtman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u119	Mr President! I would also like to thank the authors of these discussion initiatives not only for a good subject but also for a very topical subject. After all, we are in a situation, Finland is in a situation where we have incurred many kinds of debt during this pandemic. Fortunately, with regard to sovereign debt, we have been part of the euro countries where government debt has grown from the smallest point of view, but what debt we have had in terms of care and well-being we do not really know. It is only the tip of the iceberg that we see, and that is why now, if we think about the sustainability of public finances, this latter, the welfare debt, falls due earlier than others and the interest rate is higher. That is why we only have a few years to respond to these accumulated ones. My question is: how will the government ensure that now these resources,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u120	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen Mikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u121	Mr President! In my previous job, I faced young people suffering from loneliness, but also young people who felt that they were not enough. The anxiety is increasing. We need to find root causes so that we can deal with them and do preventive work. The foundation of well-being is found at home, built at home. Mr President! I ask the ministers: How can we make decisions that make families better? How can we support parenthood, especially parents of the aged, so that problems do not arise or help at home?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u122	Thank you. — Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u123	Mr President! The importance of mental health work cannot be overemphasized. Health, both physical and mental, is the basis of everything. Mental health problems have increased, and many feel that help is not available. Of course, this causes suffering and difficulties for those with mental health problems and their immediate circle, but it is also good to be aware that the problem is also important from an economic point of view for society as a whole. Sickness and disability are far more expensive than effective and adequate treatment. The basic health care guarantee in accordance with the Government Programme applies to both physical and mental health problems. The aim is to significantly improve the availability of mental health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u124	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u126	Thank you. — I will give you two more answers. Then the first two-minute speeches to the signatories and then the ministers three-minute speeches. — So, first representative, Petelius, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u127	Mr President, värderade talman! I would also like to join in thanking the authors of the discussion initiatives. It has already been pointed out here that the corona period has been particularly difficult for children, young people and students. For example, loneliness, bullying, discrimination and stress associated with studying have increased during the corona period. No one’s mental health must be burdened by schooling or studying. We must ensure that the study environment is safe for children and young people and that there is sufficient support for studies, such as adequate skilled teaching staff, school curators and psychologists. Only a well-being child is motivated and can learn. In addition, special attention must be paid to young people who do not study or work because they do not have the school or work community to support them. It is therefore very good that THL has launched a study on mental health and substance abuse services for young people outside education and work. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u128	Thank you. — And Mr False, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u129	Mr President! Mental health problems are often based on early childhood and youth, and often problems that have not been resolved are later strengthened at different stages of life. Working life naturally poses huge challenges and often requires personal strength and the ability to solve its problems. The importance of occupational health care, work guidance and the entire work community is great when difficult situations are examined. Today, access to treatment is delayed, and thus the treatment path will be long and recovery will take time and test the ability to work. We still have a lot of work to do to ensure early intervention, guidance and actual care. Thank you, Mr Virta, for your speech. I agree with you. And I confirm Mr Lindén's report on the possibilities of outpatient care. I myself have been working in an outpatient psychosis group for nine years in outpatient care, and my experience is exactly what Lindén was talking about. Successful outpatient treatment can avoid hospitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u130	Thank you. — And then Mr Kontula, 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u131	Hand up all those in this room whose personal history does not involve traumatic or painful experience with which the drugs have joined. [ Don't get your hands up!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u132	Thank you. — Mr Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u133	Mr President! I would really like to challenge our working lives to do their best to prevent mental disorders. If we think we have EUR 11 billion on this issue, what is essential is that we use it early enough, and this same principle of early use also relates to working life. If we think that at the moment the labour market costs of mental disorders amount to nearly EUR 5 billion a year, then by using that money earlier and not later will we get better results. If we think of physical treatment, for example, it is obvious in many workplaces that when the shoulders are stuck, the physal help or other help comes to it. But when the mind is stuck, a person is put on hold, or the problem is minimized or not addressed in any way. That is why it is extremely important to think that mental health issues are also present in the same way as other health care issues. For example, the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health has assessed the impact of measures on the prevention of mental health disorders. There will be physical activity, such rapid and early psychotherapy and partial sickness allowance, and these are the tools that can be used to intervene. But many companies that have taken such fast therapy for their own use and repertoire have actually received more good under the line. It is not a question of costing more, but of even bringing economic benefits, let alone human beings.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u134	Thank you. — Minister Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u135	Mr President! Thank you all for this very important debate. The effects of substance abuse and mental health problems are humanely heavy for Finns, but their economic effects are also heavy for our economy. And even minor changes and improvements could have a significant impact on employment and the economy. A 5% reduction in mental health-related disability pensions would have a positive impact on employment of around 2,500 people. In other words, when we talk about employment measures, we cannot ignore mental health, the strengthening of mental health services and the prevention of mental health problems. Mr President! I would answer on behalf of Minister Anderson at his request. There has been a lot of concern about the situation of young people and also about the role of schools and student care in mental health services. Minister Andersson is about to bring to Parliament a bill that amends the Student and Student Care Act to provide for a binding dimension for psychologists and curators. The aim of this law is, of course, to make student care services more equal and timely and equally accessible to children and young people, thereby contributing to learning, mental and physical health and social well-being. So such a positive legislative change will soon come to Parliament. Mr President! I think it's a representative. S.H.I.E.L.D. raised an important point of view: mental health skills and strengthening the well-being of the mind. I see this as an important point of view. We need to develop our service system in a preventive direction, but I believe that the perspective of health promotion and its strengthening and the strengthening of knowledge throughout society are very important lifts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u136	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u137	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for a very good debate, and very rarely has there actually been such empowerment. This work, which we have before us, is indeed recognised and very serious about the challenges of our time. There is no point in blaming each other for what has not been done or what should be done here in the Chamber. Yes, we are all in this same boat, and these things need to be fixed. Answers to questions from a few thematic groups. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to respond to all of them right now, but Mrs Viljanen and Mr Filatov spoke about this equality in my opinion, and perhaps many others referred to it. This inequality, the fact that the local service level, the care path, is very different depending on where you live, and this equality is a big issue for us, and this cannot be the case in the future. That is a fact that must be acknowledged. Mr Filatov spoke about the fact that we must realise that this is going to cost us anyway. Will this be done now or later, as I understand Mr Lindtman referred to the social sustainability gap: will this be done later or now? I think we should make a lot of money. Instead of paying EUR 7 billion in mechanical costs, would it be more sensible to take preventive action now? I think these are important. Then we come to the fact that who will be involved in the voluntary work. We need everyone. Representatives Torniainen, Risikko, you asked if the organizations were, is the private sector. Yes, all of this is needed, not just with these existing public resources. Children and young people and families: Kim Berg started this good conversation. Here many representatives — Berg, Hänninen, Aittakumpu, Eloranta et cetera, and also Kymäläinen — spoke particularly about these self-destructive young people. These are really loud cries of distress, and our children and young people are feeling really bad. I often wonder how schools are still able to learn when people are already in such a bad state. We have many self-destructive young people, and for the first time we are extending this debate to the end of a low threshold. My dream is that in all schools it would be, but when we left for this in the autumn of 2019, it didn't work quite by clicking on your finger. But over 800 professionals have been trained in these methods of conversation aid. So you can change the world. Care guarantee: Eloranta from the perspective of student care, what is there, Forsgré from the perspective of proper help, Sarkomaa from the perspective of therapy guarantee, from the perspective of content reform. We are forced to make an impact on this field, that is why we are doing social content reform. We just put EUR 132 million in the field, and do you know that the condition is that if you do not start to happen, the money can be collected away. Two conditions: one is to promote a health guarantee; the other is to ensure access to mental health services for children and young people and adults. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u138	Thank you. — And this is the end of the debate. I regret this problem with microphones. We will be prepared for tomorrow's Question Time so that this system will certainly be in order. This is very unfortunate, but nothing can be done about these technical problems during this sitting. That's why I couldn't stop this, but I couldn't fix it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u139	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. Let's go to the list of speakers. Congressman Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u140	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a change to the laws on the transport system and the roads before Parliament is of a rather technical nature but is essentially linked to the national Transport 12 plan, one of the aims of which is to promote the transition to non-fossil transport. The Government's proposal contains the contents of two different EU directives aimed at improving road safety and the environmental impact assessment of cross-border infrastructure projects. The aim is to ensure that the same road safety criteria are applied in all EU Member States. The application of the same criteria across the EU will contribute to the security of movement in Europe when people can rely on road safety assessment and monitoring at all stages of road infrastructure planning and operation. Mr President! These issues must also be taken into account in the National Plan for Transport 12 when planning and implementing national projects. The safety of road and rail networks is something we cannot be flexible about. It not only promotes smooth traffic but also reduces the number of road accidents. Similarly, environmental and climate impact assessment should be an integral part of the planning of transport projects. Environmentally sustainable transport projects are long-lived when the life cycle of the project and its impact on the surrounding environment have been properly assessed. This is in the interests of both nature and the inhabitants of the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u141	Thank you. — And Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u142	Thank you, Mr President. On 23 September the Government has submitted 21 legislative proposals to Parliament to implement the revised EU Road Safety Directive at national level. The aim is to extend road safety monitoring and to provide better information on road safety, and this information will help to reduce the number of road fatalities and serious accidents. Prime Minister Sanna Marin's programme includes a promise of informed decision-making. The proposal will improve the opportunities for a knowledge-based policy making and a systematic impact assessment. The key change would concern the extension of the scope of Chapter 3a of the Act, which will lead to an increasing number of routes being covered by a systematic safety assessment. Currently, the regulation concerns TEN-T roads of the trans-European transport network, with a length of more than 5000 kilometres in Finland. In the future, the provisions will also apply in Finland to the main roads according to the national main bus regulations. The road network would therefore have a total of six-and-a-half thousand kilometres of road network coverage in the future. In addition, a regular road safety assessment will be carried out throughout the TEN-T network and the main access regulation. The first evaluation should be completed in 24. The evaluation will be used, inter alia, to update the national transport system plan and to decide on the allocation of road maintenance activities affecting road safety. In the future, users of the unprotected road, i.e. pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists, should be more systematically taken into account in the road safety assessment carried out by the road operator under the law. The amendments required by the EU Road Safety Directive, which came into force in December 19, will be made to the Transport System and Road Law, which would increase the information on the road safety situation and improve the possibilities for targeting corrective measures where they can have the greatest impact on safety. These changes should enter into force in December 21. Mr President! In addition, the Government's proposal would provide clarifications to road and rail laws that would better align national regulations with the environmental impact assessment, i.e. EU legislation on rail. These amendments would provide for a cross-border environmental impact assessment for road and rail projects subject to the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure Act. These changes will increase cross-border exchange of information on projects with cross-border environmental impacts. And, like many Member States, Finland has received a formal remark from the EU Commission in November 19 on shortcomings in the regulation of EIA. Mr President! I hope that the proposal to amend the Act on the Transport System and the Roads Act and the Railways Act will receive a positive reception in Parliament and that the proposals for changes could therefore begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u143	Thank you. — Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u144	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation, and for your information, the Committee on Transport and Communications has already started with a preliminary examination today, and we will then be able to reach more extensive consultations here. The most important change to be presented will extend the scope of the law to cover not only the TEN-T network but also the main roads covered by the main national bus regulations. The EU Road Transport Directive aims to improve road safety throughout the Union. The overall objective of the Directive is to reduce road deaths and serious injuries in the EU by improving road infrastructure safety. The EU's objective is to have a so-called zero vision of road transport by 2050, according to which no one has to die or be seriously injured in traffic. This objective has also been committed in Finland. In recent decades, traffic safety has improved clearly in Finland. Despite this, the decline in road traffic has clearly slowed down in the second half of the 2010s. The promotion of road safety is one of the cornerstones of the Government's transport policy. As President of Transport Safety itself, I believe it is important that road safety is widely promoted at all levels. The new Transport 12 plan also sets out the commitment to road safety and zero vision. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is currently preparing a national transport safety strategy up to 2026. The strategy aims to improve road safety for all modes of transport in a holistic way. At the same time, conditions will be created for the safe development of transport in the future. Mr President! As assessed in the Government's proposal, this bill will allow road safety to be assessed as improving and contributing positively to the achievement of EU and national road safety objectives. It is therefore important that we ensure positive developments in road safety. This would reduce the cost and financial loss of accidents for society and transport companies, but above all we would save lives. Every traffic death is too much. Mr President! Indeed, the Committee on Transport and Communications has already taken this proposal into consideration in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u145	Thank you. — Representative Könttä absent. — — — — Congressman Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u151	Thank you. — Ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u152	Irade the Talman! Tack, Ministern, för presentationen av den tauri technicala grjen kring uppdaterande av vägsäkerhetsdirectives från EU. Jag skulle grain constatera lite mosm som har kommit upp arv tidigare, att det är wasteviktigt att vi har mosm implementationering i under EU-länder. Vi vet att en stor del av vår export går just till europeiska länder, och ur det ox perspective är det också viktigt att våra invånare, våra trafikanter som rör sig också på andra delar än våra vägar är på säker mark, om vi uttrycker det på det sättet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u153	Mr President! It is good that the Minister of Transport himself is here to hear good speeches on the safety of our traffic. It is true that these directives in themselves are important and make movement in the parliaments of the Member States. That's what this band is actually playing. But what I'm really worried about is this condition of the lower road network. To this day, I have already called the head of the road district and also the roadmaster in charge of North Karelia, the roadmaster in North Karelia, that there is a bridge near my yard, or actually in the Old Tuupovaara municipality, when the road is across an asphalt road so far that he no longer dares to ride there by bicycle, moped — in fact he has to drive a long way around the road. This is the condition of the lower road network today, and I hope, Minister of Transport, that you will take this very seriously now, as you tend to do, that road graders will be returned to the management of the lower road network. Let me take an example from Ilomants. The road was corrected by the so-called'remix' procedure, which means that money was made available from somewhere. A few tens of thousands were used to make it look like it was fixed. Two, three weeks after that event, it's about the same pits, which means they're making those basic mistakes over and over again. Once the road planers are put back into service, then the road will be properly shaped and, at the same time, it will be ensured that, once it has been driven to the road’s tread — there is usually it, but if it is not, it will be added — in one use we will be able to get it in order. In spring, a treatment plan made in autumn, a treatment plan with a heavy grader. In the summer can the Vallesmann curls be removed for the lower road network though with lana, it is not a problem, but when making such partial solutions, the result is then such that today, for example, in my municipality of Ilomants, truckers will not dare all of you to go for wood anymore. The combination of trucks weighs about 72 tons in the load of wood, and when I have sat on one truck about 50 kilometers away when the load of wood was brought to the railway station, I must say that I rarely have been so afraid. It was a terrible experience because the road was in really bad shape. I admire the men who drive those trucks. They are the real artisans of our traffic, driving safely under dangerous conditions, avoiding collisions. I hope, Minister, that this matter will now finally be corrected, because the artificial means by which the work is being done at the moment, if at all, are a real danger to people in rural areas, to heavy transport and to the whole of Finnish society. We are increasing the transport of wood a lot, as we know, because of this new renewable energy and the additional use of wood. We must get wood for both pulpets and saws and other special uses. If we don't fix the lower road net, we're in so much trouble that I can't even say how to describe it. I hope, Minister, that this will be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u154	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u155	Mr President! It was guaranteed from Hosko: good speech straight out of the field. Indeed, there is one thing at the moment in this government proposal that strikes me personally. We are always doing research, planning, babbling, but, as the old saying says, ‘well-designed is completely unplanned’. The situation is that hopefully this and future governments will also be spending money on this system so that we can actually correct these problems to an increasing extent, so to speak, from the point of view of road safety. I know in advance that a good minister will tell us how much has been invested in this regime. But far too little, I say, and I hope that there will then be money in the next budget, even if it is precisely for this improvement in road safety, because that is what a number of transport projects are. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u156	Thank you. — Minister Harakka 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u157	Mr President! Thank you for these good lunches. Mr Kymäläinen, as chairman of both Transport Safety and the Committee on Transport and Communications, has, of course, rightly observed that this bill is one part of the greater road safety strategy being prepared. And, as Mrs Torniainen and Mr Ollikainen pointed out, so also the investments in basic access are important safety factors, also, and perhaps above all, on a lower road network. Without complimenting the efforts made by this government to maintain the basic route, which is about EUR 300 million per year on top of the billion that is already at the bottom, we, together in Parliament, have committed all parties to an even higher level for the next decade, so the whole Chamber can take credit for the fact that the purpose and good will in this respect are also the wishes of Mr Hoskose in this respect. Transport safety therefore consists of a number of small individual measures. But, of course, every single piece of legislation that is mentioned here must always take into account the strengthening of road safety and find the means and means to improve it. Today we have taken statements on our draft reform of the driving licence law, and it pays more attention to road safety than before. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u158	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u159	Mr President! To sum up: Mr Hoskonen's wish in this matter is of very little value, but the greetings I gave the honourable Minister in my speech are truly a source of security for the local people. Just think, last spring there were some villages in the municipality of Ilomants that could not be reached by ambulance, there was no way to get on a plane until a private contractor of his great mercy — when his best worker, the best working worker in the metal shop, had been left in the bludgeon when the government had not kept that public way open — took his own truck and went to open that road and put it in order for the man to get a job, and his wife is a nurse. This was reported to the various authorities concerned — I have not heard anything and the contractors have not received any information. But this road grader issue is such that we have survived this neglect of road graders when the management of the lower road network has been neglected for a long, long time and wrong means have been used. The money will be enough for the job when it is properly organised, Minister. Together with the entrepreneur Esa Halttunen, we have taken the initiative both to the Fairway Office and to the management of Savo-Karjala Road District — they know what this is all about — and, if necessary, I can consult on the matter with my limited knowledge of what I have. I'm not very good at it myself, but there are men who are very good at this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u160	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. — Minister Harakka, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u161	Mr President! As we know, the various sectors of our society are increasingly dependent on digital services, which in turn need reliable connections and information systems. Cybersecurity is therefore a basic requirement in our digital society for the quality and safety of services — I would say it is a national home insurance policy. After all, Finland is well known for its high cyber security expertise. The harnessing of all cybersecurity expertise in Finland is important in order to respond to changes and challenges in a rapidly evolving digital environment. At the same time, we must create the conditions for Finnish companies to have access to the cybersecurity European market, which is worth more than EUR 130 billion. The Government has presented a proposal to implement nationally the EU regulation establishing a European Cybersecurity Industrial, Technology and Research Centre and a network of National Coordination Centres. The Regulation establishes an EU-level centre of expertise and a network of national coordination centres and an EU-wide cybersecurity competence community. This may sound rather rigid and bureaucratic, but the aim is to promote the emergence of a European cybersecurity ecosystem in order to develop and bring together research and academic, social, technological and industrial capacities in the field of cybersecurity in the EU. The proposal therefore brings together these investments in all development-affected sectors and implements overall projects. For example, the EU Centre of Excellence should manage cybersecurity funding from Horizon Europe and Digital Europe. The Regulation obliges each Member State to designate this National Coordination Centre, as proposed in Finland as the Cyber Safety Centre of the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. As a result, new tasks should be carried out by the Cyber Security Centre. These would be, above all, the task of building and coordinating a community of cybersecurity stakeholders at national level and of acting as a contact point at national level. Mr President! The tasks of the EU Regulation require not only close cooperation between national actors but also additional resources for the Cybersecurity Centre. At this early stage, current funding will enable action to be initiated with minimum requirements, but we must return to long-term funding. The National Coordination Centre should be seen above all as a strategic investment in the development of cyber competence in Finland. At the same time, this expertise in Finland could be harnessed in the most appropriate and effective way possible to support the creation of new companies and to build an entire cybersecurity cluster. Mr President! I dare to hope for a positive reception in the committee concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u162	Thank you. — Before going to the actual referral debate, I would like to say that a maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for this referral debate, including what the Minister has just said. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Now, Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u163	Mr President! This week we noticed the vulnerability of online communications when Facebook-owned communications services were down. It showed that our digital communications networks are vulnerable to interference and external threats. Cyber threats not only affect our communications networks, but have increasingly shifted to the network. Cybersecurity is now an unceasing part of overall security and the realisation of human rights. The challenge of combating cyber threats is that threats to the network are often global. This is why decisions must also be made supranationally. This government proposal is part of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council which will develop cybersecurity know-how and strategic coordination at EU level. Only through close European cooperation will we be able to prepare for the global cyber threats that the network is full of. Mr President! The Government will present the National Cybersecurity Coordination Centre, which will be established in Finland, focusing on the development of cooperation between industry, research communities and governments. The Coordination Centre brings together cyber security experts at national level and cooperates closely with other Member States. The Centre already exists, but the Regulation will provide it with new tasks aimed at further developing cybersecurity-related know-how and coordination both in Finland and in Europe. The proposal also has implications for other policy objectives. The proposal implements the objectives of the Government Programme to support Finland’s competence, education and innovation. For example, the Coordination Centre can also use the expertise of other national actors in its activities. In this way, Finnish expertise can be harnessed in the most appropriate and efficient way that would create new companies in Finland and create the conditions for building an entire cybersecurity cluster. This also has a positive impact on security and the economy and on attracting international experts to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u164	Thank you. — Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u165	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for bringing this initiative to Parliament. This is indeed a proposal to transform the Cyber Safety Centre under the authority of the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency into the National Cyber Security Coordination Centre in Finland, in accordance with the EU Regulation. It introduces new tasks. However, some of these similar tasks have already been carried out at the Cyber Security Centre, but in the future the aim is, among other things, to promote the construction of a national cybersecurity community, to coordinate cybersecurity activities extensively and to act as a contact point at national level to support the European Cybersecurity Industrial Technology and Research Knowledge Centre (EU Knowledge Centre) in its activities. The EU regulation, which is behind this bill, came into force in the summer, with the aim of deepening cooperation between the public and private sectors and the research world in the field of cybersecurity. This is good. Mr President! Cybersecurity is increasingly important in digital society. Information in society is becoming increasingly important, while cyber threats and crime are increasing. Many sectors of society are already dependent on telecommunications connections and information systems and are therefore vulnerable to various types of cyber threats. A good example of this is, among other things, the recent case of the Response Centre. These things cannot happen again in our society. The EU cybersecurity market is worth more than EUR 130 billion, and on an annual basis the market is growing at a staggering rate. Finland cannot lag behind in this development. There is a lot of cybersecurity expertise in Finland that we need to be able to refine and exploit in order to generate growth and thus jobs. The National Coordination Centre is therefore a strategic investment in developing Finland’s cybersecurity expertise. The good news is also that the government has made two mutually supportive policy decisions in the spring to improve information security and data protection in critical sectors of society as well as a cyber security development programme. At the same time, the setting up of a coordination centre at the Cyber Security Centre with this proposal would support the objectives of these policy decisions. Indeed, the Government is clearly committed to promoting the development of cyber security. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we would be happy to take this proposal for cybersecurity in committee as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u166	Thank you. — Representative Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u167	[3 minute break in sound recording]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u168	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u174	Thank you. — Representative Ollikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u175	Mr President, ärade talman! Det auri en valdigt, valdigt bra sak, att vi har just Cybersäkerhetscentret som ett samordningscentrum i fortsättningen. Framför allt då kanske med tank just på det som käde i måndags då Facebook och andra sociala medier gick ner, och Kosamo och så vidare är bra påminnelser om hur sårbara vi är. Just den ox Kunskapen kring cybersäkerhet upplever jag att är ganska bristfällig ställvis, och ur det bull perspective ser jag att det bull samordningscentrumet har en jätteviktig och bra roll.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u179	Thank you. — And again, Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u180	Mr. Speaker! Thank you for these encouraging greetings. As Mr Soinikoski quite rightly pointed out, cyber threats apply to all networks and are almost daily our great concern and also a reminder of how our society is vulnerable. I dared, Mr Laakso, to trust that this important security in this area of defence will also be supported in the Chamber as a whole. In fact, it is important to note that if Finland is to be a 5G superpower, as we want to be, then we should at the same time be a cybersecurity superpower, because 5G means on the industrial Internet that it allows for a lot, thousands of dollars, sensors and data points for every production facility, all of which are more potential gates to a data breach. In other words, if cybersecurity is not in order, if these systems are not designed from the outset and financed from the outset to be safe, then this will have very fatal consequences. Secure by design is what needs to be pursued. In this respect, it is also a question of us having responded to the concerns expressed by Mr Kopra in these matters. By two resolutions of principle mentioned by Kymäläinen, where information security in critical industries will be organised in the event of these crises. In fact, cooperation between the authorities works quite well behind the scenes, but when cybersecurity cannot be outsourced and thus concentrated in a single place, such a coordination responsibility is naturally the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and I dare to trust that things are in good hands. The truth is, we don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u181	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u182	Mr President! I am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and I am certainly not the chairman or vice-chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, so that I do not have the right to demonstrate, but of course the right to speak is the right of a Member of Parliament. This government proposal 156/2021 is extremely important. The fight against forest damage is very important to us. We all know why this is so important. Forest damage can easily increase if we do not do our own work properly. Here, too, we are responsible for the hygiene of forests ourselves, and here there are two important dimensions: The second is that after logging, when the timber is delivered to the roadside, it will be removed before July. It is taken to a factory, a sawmill, or a pulp mill or somewhere else to ensure that the larvae that went under the bark last autumn cannot fly back into the trees when they leave under the tree in the spring and summer to fly to continue the family. To prevent this, trees are being transported out of the forest, and it is extremely important that this country is well cared for. After all, Metsäkeskus monitors these by random sampling continuously and inspects the forest road according to systematic sampling, which means that we do not have much to ask for in this area. The forest centre must be given a big thank-you for having done this work conscientiously and professionally. But what is worrying about this is that, first of all, when the domestic peat has been stopped, huge quantities of wood from abroad containing incomprehensible quantities of various insect pests and, at worst, they are the insect pests that are not suitable for Finnish nature. In other words, those who do not have natural enemies in Finland pose a real huge threat to the future of Finnish forests. When the peat decision was made, I tried my best to highlight this risk of forest hygiene, but all my hopes were echoed both in this hall and in my group to deaf ears. Who in this house is going to risk spreading into the forests of Finland some kind of pest that is doing huge damage? In British Columbia, a small sleazeball killed the forest, if I remember correctly, between 5 and 6 million hectares. There are huge areas that I dare not even go beyond, but it was at least 5 million hectares. Do we want this situation in Finland? I don't think so. The second point is that when timber is stored on the roads, it will be able to be removed in due course. But it is also important to note the importance of cutting methods and technical know-how. It is extremely important that we do the logging right and preferably at the right time. For example, in the spread of the printer, as well as in the spread of the root roll, we face major challenges. If we make a workway with a big machine and at the wrong time, we will surely cause the root roll to spread around Finland, all over Finland equally effectively. And worst of all, Mr President, if we can spread the root with the wrong techniques to Finland even more effectively, then we will do huge damage in the forests and especially in the woodwood forests, because it will root out the tree from the base to the top and so that when we see the damage in the forest, then it will be too late. The laho has already spread and the damage has been done. And now that this sustainable new method of logging is spread with enthusiasm, constant breeding, it is a huge risk that I have tried to talk about in this house a hundred times. By continuous breeding, you will certainly be able to root in the forests of Finland, the spruce trees, so effectively that no instrument will be able to prevent it afterwards. What are you, ladies and gentlemen... — — — — This debate clearly shows that there are no Green MPs here today who are eager to defend this continuing education. — With what do you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, reject the root roll? Not one of you has proposed a solution. Yes, you have popularly spread the method of spreading root rote in both the Finnish Broadcasting and the national media, but none of you have ever given ear to how you handle forest hygiene. And there's no sign of you in this courtroom, not even the first MP, let alone the minister. I would have liked the Minister for the Environment to have been present, at least because he is a huge forwarder of these great ideas and even blames the signatory for pretending that I do not understand these things. Well, let my criticism be granted, it is part of the seat of a representative of the Parliament as a tax-free allowance. But if we go down the road of deliberately, consciously spreading these plant diseases, we will do tremendous damage. Finally, Mr President, the most important thing in terms of forest hygiene in Finland and in terms of the condition of forests is that we keep the forests in good condition. Why did forests fall in Central Europe, destroyed millions of cubes last year? Because there was decay due to lack of care and too old age. Keep the forests in order, keep the pests out of the forests and the Finnish people at work — it will win all, even the green ones, who are in favour of continuous farming.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u183	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 4/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u184	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Law on the Energy Certificate Information System for Buildings. Technical amendments are proposed to bring the law into line with other legislation on energy certification. In addition, other technical amendments would be made to the law and the regulation on the protection of personal data would be updated. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection supports the adoption of the draft law without amendment, with the following comments: The Energy Certificate Register is an ARA information service where you can apply for energy certificates and qualified energy certificate authors. The authors can be applied for either by name or by postal code, by post office, by municipality or by region. You can apply for energy certificates from the register at the province, municipality, postcode or office or street address. The committee notes that data on detached houses cannot be retrieved except with a certificate number, as the codes of the detached houses are considered personal data. On the other hand, you can search the register for regional information on the energy certificates of public buildings, blocks of flats and terraced houses. The Government’s proposal aligns the law on the energy certification system of buildings with the legislation on energy certificates and makes changes to the law resulting from the General Data Protection Regulation and amendments to the legislation on personal data protection. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u185	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u186	Mr President! It is all right, of course, that these new systems are being developed, but I myself have been thinking about this when it was that the building — if it is going to sell a house of its own — should have a fitness check, and then it can only be done by a skilled building manager or construction engineer or by an equivalent construction professional — that is a good thing. I just hope that this energy certification system should not now be forced to do so, which, at its worst, will cause the price of the certificates to go up in the clouds. And I'm not sure that... When modern techniques, for example, build a detached house — or a terraced house or an apartment building — do well. It is said that the houses that have been built over the last 20 to 30 years are so well insulated and so well constructed that I no longer see very big differences in those building techniques. This too will probably go to the same great unknown legal mass, the importance or necessity of which I have not always understood whether it is absolutely necessary. But I hope that there is some sense here that we will not make ourselves a huge bureaucratic flower, which, moreover, will cost people a great deal of money. If the sale does not come about because of that energy certificate or even because of some other reason, then it was again paid for the vain testimony.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u187	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u188	Mr President! I was a member of the Committee on the Environment for eight years, and this matter of energy certificates was there several times. One problem was the lack of clarity, and it was also related to these energy certificates, how clear they were for the user. The second question concerns compliance with the law in general. A couple of years ago, I drew attention to the fact that in Pirkanmaa a large municipality announced the destination to be sold and so was the energy certificate that was missing. As I understand it, this is clearly in the law that it is only necessary to do so. It is different whether it is good or bad, but if the law requires it to be in it, then the public authorities must strictly obey the law. I do not think there are two words. This, as it were, may be the case that this issue can also be highlighted. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u189	Thank you. — Mr Koskela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Seriously, this energy certificate is all right, but even more important would be the repair debt counter. I know that this project is being carried forward in the private sector. [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : Semicrophone in the Commission. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u197	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 5/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion. Congressman Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u201	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — Mr Koskela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u202	Mr President! As a member of the Advisory Board of the National Audit Office, it was nice to read this annual report for the year 21. Thus, the National Audit Office produces up-to-date information on issues of central government importance in support of decision-making and at the same time ensures the accountability of the administration. The activities of the Agency will also ensure the effectiveness of financial management, fostering confidence in decision-making and its transparency and sustainability. At the same time, it is up to the Agency to identify and check the main risks for central government finances. The Agency shall also contribute to the transparency and understanding of budgetary policies and to fiscal stability and sustainability. In its annual report, the Agency takes a position on the abolition of the framework: the spending limits system has worked very well when it was in force and has limited the growth of central government expenditure, and now, however, 2020 because of the interest rate, or under its guise, has allowed the framework to be forgotten and massively indebtedness. In addition to the direct interest payments, the government has increased long-term public expenditure in the past. These costs have been justified by calling them ‘future investments’. The current budget for the year has not been able to return to the framework. This is a matter of concern to the Agency. This is particularly highlighted in the review of the state spending limits system. It considers expenditure described as one-off and fiscally mandatory and interest-bearing expenditure to be inadequately justified. It should be noted that there is no return to the spending limits in the next two years. The strong concern of the Agency and the proposal to return to the spending limits as soon as possible are to be welcomed. The Agency also raises the issue of the allocation of business subsidies and the related shortcomings. Business Finland and Ely Centres distributed a large amount of subsidies to companies that had not suffered financially from the corona crisis. The evaluation of grant decisions failed. Not all applicants were treated equally. In too many cases, this led to a lack of clarity on the lines of support. Other applicants were treated too harshly and are again too loosely. In particular, the simultaneous introduction of overlapping forms of aid at an early stage made it difficult to apply and also the role of the authors of the aid decisions. Development subsidies were allocated to well-performing wholesale and retail operators, but turnover fell most in accommodation and nutrition activities. Unfortunately, these sectors were less divided in the distribution of subsidies. The inaccuracies of the first forms of support were then later corrected by the introduction of cost subsidies, which were prepared for longer and made more operational in several application rounds. The Agency notes that the deferral of tax payments and the guarantees granted to loans were also of minor importance. In addition, the Agency notes that the aid granted on the basis of the interest rate was not particularly well targeted in terms of the financial difficulties faced by companies. According to Article 90 of the Constitution, the Audit Office is also responsible for reviewing the financial statements of the State, ministries and other agencies that are obliged to keep accounts. The Audit Office issued an audit report for 202062 to the accounting departments of the State. 18 of them, or 29 percent, received a comment, and the number of these comments has also been increasing in recent years. A significant note is received by the Ministry of Finance and there the State Financial and Human Resources Service Centre. The Court of Justice was also pointed out, and then the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and then more precisely the activities of the Ely and TE Offices and Business Finland as well. However, the annual report shows that the Agency has carried out its work carefully and has identified and also examined the risks relevant to central government finances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u203	Thank you. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u204	Mr President! Under the law, the National Audit Office is required to report annually to Parliament on its activities. At the beginning of this report in the referral debate, Director-General Matti Okko notes well that governance has been reformed in the midst of the crisis: ‘Exemption has been challenging the State administration,but it has been able to meet the requirements and safeguard the economic conditions. At the same time, the Government should be able to ensure a reliable knowledge base and risk management in the preparation and implementation of major reforms.” There has been a deterioration in the sound financial management of central government, and in order to reverse developments, internal control now needs to be strengthened. The Audit Office itself must also set a better example in its own actions. The Audit Office has gone through its activities and corrections have been made and are still being carried out. ‘The Audit Office shall include, for example, a It is a good thing that CEO Matti Okko says this in his own article. In the opinion of the Director-General, exemplaryness is also needed because, as I said earlier, the checks carried out by the Agency have led to a slip in the legality of the administration of the economy. The Audit Office has had to make more comments on the legality of financial management than before. So now we need to focus more on the effectiveness of internal control. President! The report points out that, thanks to government debt and support measures, Finland has been better able to cope with the interest rate than anticipated. The State managed to soften the financial and human damage caused by the crisis. Finland's flexible social security system has been seen as one factor in the fact that citizens' livelihoods have not been unduly weakened during a pandemic. It has also been possible to support companies, which has been important for the national economy. On the other hand, the criteria for allocating aid to businesses have also been criticised. The aid is not necessarily targeted at the companies most affected by the crisis. The report therefore concludes that the appropriateness of aid to firms must be assessed as a whole. President! Although we have done well in the crisis, there is something to learn, and now it is time for a learning analysis and evaluation. The Agency's report strongly criticises what the Committee on the Future has already pointed out: the threat posed by the corona crisis in society had not been prepared, even though such a epidemic threat had been identified long before the crisis and, for example, the Committee on the Future had raised this threat several times in its reports. However, the foresight information was not used and was not linked to the risk management plans. It would now be important to quickly build an integrated path from collecting foresight data to making and evaluating risk management plans. This will allow us to be better prepared for the next crises. Mr President! This was a quick look at the findings I have found on this good report, but now the Audit Committee is going to examine this report in depth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u205	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u206	Mr President! There are some points I would like to raise in this report. First of all, this economic issue and the return to the frameworks was good enough to raise this issue in the past. The report rightly states that state recovery and support measures have been important in order to safeguard the economy under exceptional circumstances, and that is, of course, the case. The reverse is, of course, the fact that the state is heavily indebted, and we must remember that. So we must return to the spending limits, and now that the economy is rising, we must not throw more public spending and constant resuscitation in order that the economy does not overheat once and for all. With regard to interest rates, it is stated here that, although the central government debt has increased sharply, interest payments have fallen over the past decade due to low interest rates, but that does not justify forgetting that debts must also be paid. These interest rates will fall due at some point and then have to be rearranged and interest rates will increase at an economic risk. The positive message is that the state and society are working well or praiseworthy throughout the crisis. Payments to citizens worked, public authorities worked. Of course, many decisions had to be made under pressure, time pressure, and partly unprepared, with delays and communication problems, but the overall picture was good. As regards the operation of VTV, as stated in this report, they have carried out self-examination. The special audit has been carried out and the audit committee has produced a report and they have been read and corrected. Now we have started the recruitment process for the new Director-General, and the committee will certainly focus on the work with full knowledge and weight that we have available. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u207	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u208	Mr President! Just to be safe, I'm coming to this toilet. When these microphones don't seem to work today, at least this is where the sound is. Perhaps it will give us a few more minutes if there is a length of time. Mr President, there has now been a lot of consultation with the members of the Audit Committee about the Audit Office, and that is good and important because, of course, the past year has not been the easiest one, neither has the Audit Committee nor the Audit Office. Just as this annual report now states as a aside, not underlining much, this question of the Director-General was difficult and, in terms of the credibility of the institution, the measures that were taken were indeed necessary. Now we're in new traffic. In a way, the integrity and credibility of the National Audit Office are, of course, very central to the Institute when we talk about the use of state, public administration funds. That's what follows these things. In this case, it is also important to register the use of its own resources so that it has been properly managed. Mr President! I too would like to draw attention to perhaps one point in this report. Otherwise, a worthy report in many ways and a worthy report in this respect too, which concerns spending limits planning. There is a careful understanding of the need to return to the frameworks, but at the same time it is quite right — and it is important for us in this debate to take note — that this spending limits exercise, which we are always doing every year when we draw up budgets, is also partly problematic. The National Audit Office draws attention to the fact that, yes, it is now important that this kind of responsible economic policy, financial management is ensured in a long-term way, also on an annual basis in a comprehensive and rational way, which the frameworks form in a way, but also so that not only the so-called expenditure side is worked out. This assessment by the Audit Office says that we should also try to scrape together this income side and see these tax cabinets and the problems there too, in that it makes sense, in its own way, to take account of the expansion of the tax base, so that we can build its income base on a structured basis in a long run. Of course, this whole thing should be taken into account. Mr President! Perhaps it could be said in this regard that it might be appropriate to evaluate this spending limits procedure in a more long-term way. Over the years, when it has been the dominant instrument in this area, the central instrument for drawing up the budget, we have found that there will then be circular movements in the largest items of expenditure. We have here this HX project for this year, by far the largest item of expenditure when approving this year's budget. It is suddenly financed outside the budget, outside the spending limits, as if it were not public spending. Of course, this kind of thing is confusing. It is completely misleading in relation to how public finances are maintained. Similarly, of course, it was self-evident that the introduction of the large items of expenditure that had to be made in the context of this corona epidemic was, of course, absolutely inevitable outside the spending limits. There is also a need to assess this spending limits procedure in relation to how it works and reflects the needs of society, and here too is an important place for assessment. President! This must also be accompanied by the fact that, in part, certain major investments have also gone to these forms of incorporation which circumvent this framework procedure. In this respect, perhaps even in the longer run, there could be a place for an overall assessment of how these frameworks will be developed in the future so that they respond in real terms, in the right way to the needs of budget planning, which of course need to be registered and taken into account. In that sense, this annual report by VTV on this issue suggests that this overall review should be carried out in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u209	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u210	Mr President! I think it is important to note that the National Audit Office has certainly not had the best year behind it, and we have seen very bad attention here. In the past, we in the Audit Committee dealt very extensively with this situation in a comprehensive report, in which we raised certain development proposals and raised problems. I think it is very important that there is now a clear announcement here that these have been seized, caught up and started to shine through and develop activities. This is extremely important, because if this institution is to have the confidence of the citizens, then let us start with that. Perhaps with regard to these issues, as they arise here, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Agency, on the whole, assessed the success of the treatment of this corona in a positive way, i.e. different measures have been taken to soften the impact of this crisis, both humanly and economically. Humanly, of course, it was very important that health was left ahead in the early stages, that everyone should be taken care of, that we should not allow people to fall into their own misery, and that we also ensure that there are no bankruptcies, and all this, with this and now, in a number of amending budgets. After that, we clearly chose the path of recovery, and then again we look to the future and continue to think that we are not putting a sudden stop to economic growth and employment, but precisely stimulating economic growth, and these last economic forecasts now show that this has been the right choice, the right direction, and I think it has been an important observation that Finland has been able to manage the disease in all its aspects, as well as in economic management, at the very top of Europe, and this is important. In view of this, I would like to stress that, although there is certainly a lot to be improved in this framework procedure, it must be developed, and in future we will have to consider, among other things, this income ratio, which Mr Kiljunen raised earlier, but it will be quite consistent with, for example, the ECB's and the OECD's message, which in the world is that do not block the sheets too quickly. And I personally would not be able to believe that it would be better if, for example, the population had gone to a billion-dollar surgery next year. I think that would be a mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u211	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u212	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen has just highlighted the difficulty of this framework issue and the need to be cautious with it — a very wise speech and easy to sign every word. But I am taking my right now, as we deal with the Annual Report of the National Audit Office, to raise this issue of EU funding, although these additional items are probably not within the spending limits — and I do not understand where they belong. I am referring here, Mr President, to a brief speech by Mr von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, who visited Finland on Monday: ‘The European Commission has adopted a positive assessment of the plan for the recovery and return of Finland. This is an important step in the process of granting EUR 2.1 billion from the Recovery and Recovery Instrument to Finland, which does not need to be repaid." “‘Whoever needs to pay back’is a certain clean I can't wait to say that the wise journalist has taken a better look at this issue, which is respectable, and he also wonders in this evening's article that when Finland's net contribution to this stimulus package amounts to EUR 4.5 billion, the workplaces thus created have such a hard price tag as EUR 562500 per item. So, Mr President, I am not some top economic expert — perhaps I have been able to handle my own business quite well and respond to my calls — but if the state finances are managed in this way, that we are violating membership agreements and going to pay for the debts of others, then I believe that the next reports from the National Audit Office will be much darker to read. Of course I don't wish for that, but I'm afraid so. This sowing of money to the European tunics and squares has reached such proportions that I really am horrified. I'm still able to sleep at night, but every once in a while when something comes to mind... And this is one of the first things that will happen to poor Finland in this race. It is purely a question of the management of Finnish central government finances. If we were to play the so-called benevolent fool who is pushing money to other countries, such as Italy, whose national wealth is huge compared to Finland — the gold reserve alone is quite inconceivable compared to Finland — that is, if we go out and play Kroisos Pennos and share money there in Europe, then the following reports, as we read here by the National Audit Office, are quite sad to read. Finally, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Audit Committee, which has successfully taken up this difficult matter of the National Audit Office and, frankly, took it all the way to the end and has done a good job. I do not think the President-in-Office is here, but Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen is here – thank you to him, and I hope that this thanks go to everyone, including both the President-in-Office and the other Members, because the work was very good and it was done with dignity, firmness and no unnecessary comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u213	Thank you. — I note that we have an annual report from the National Audit Office on Parliament's deliberations and that it will focus on it. — Representative Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u214	Thank you, Mr President. In short, I would like to comment on this inspection report by VTV as Chairman of the Parliament's auditors. As regards VTV, when it began to come to the public with regard to irregularities, I asked the Administrative Director for additional appropriations for a more specific audit, and with regard to these irregularities, what we have now found, we have made good progress with VTV and in discussions with the Acting Director-General Matti Oko. At the moment, I believe that the VTV ship has returned to the right route, which is the original purpose of VTV's operations, i.e. to check some 60 other state agencies, their operations and the correctness of their operations. I hope that from now on, with the new Director-General's search for all these issues, we will also be able to make statements on the so-called clean audit reports for VTV in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u215	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u216	Mr President! As a small follow-up to these aspects of the report by the Audit Office, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, especially in the early stages, when we had to quickly inject massive amounts of aid, we might not have created quite enough of a system as a society to make it work just so that the aid goes to the right place, to those who need it the most. After all, quite difficult situations arose in the early stages when it became apparent that, among other things, Business Finland's subsidies had gone a long way to those who were not necessarily the ones most in need of them, and then, on the other hand, many small operators, who really needed support, were able to intervene from all the different systems — but there were many different sources from which they could be applied — but they were not. In the Committee on Budgets, where I myself am a member, we paid a few strong attention to this on a number of occasions, and we welcomed future amending budgets, and we said that now we really need to pay strong attention to the fact that aid goes to those who need it the most, and this was to be improved round by round, and this cost support came. And when I myself am a member of the Section for Education and Science on behalf of the Committee on Finance, I drew particular attention to the fact that it was a good thing to support culture, a great thing that we received large sums of money for culture. Indeed, it deserves it and suffers greatly from this distress, there are unreasonable situations. Hundreds of millions of us were able to help, but there was a problem with the fact that, for example, the first batch was deprived of support by a large number of freelancers. Then it was slightly corrected, tried to target it better, and the committee repeatedly sends its best wishes that attention should be paid to this. In other words, this is certainly something that the agency will give us, and it will also be discussed here in Parliament and in the government: how we will be better prepared if there are crises of this kind that require unusual action, that in those situations we can act as effectively as possible and in this way also prepare for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u217	Thank you. — Mr Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u218	Mr President! A little more on this issue, which was raised here by Mr Viitanen and also by Mr Hoskonen: this Annual Report of the National Audit Office makes it very clear that during this crisis period in the management of the pandemic, this debt management and fundraising has been properly and well managed. It should now be underlined here, because it is so clearly shown here. After all, we had the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, here on Monday, and she said this in practice in relation to the government. In that sense, although the President said that we are now focusing on this annual report, I would just like to say a phrase about the criticism of Mr Hoskonen about the recovery fund plan which is part of the whole of Finland's fund-raising process as part of the European Union in these matters, that Finland would pay for the contributions of others. In fact, we know — I'm just giving you a series of numbers: This recovery fund has been calculated to generate a growth rate of 2% throughout the European Union. It is the most important export area for Finland, and it brings 20000 jobs. If a journalist calculates this from another angle that expensive jobs, then I will stay and think about this. At least the National Audit Office's annual report tells a different story about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u219	I note that the 30 minutes that were set aside for this debate in advance have passed, but now, if there are short, concise speeches and there will be no more, I will allow these two. — Mr Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u220	Mr President! Thank you for this. I listened here to Mr Viita, not to the previous speech, but to the previous one, and it did sound more like the Tammelantor Audit Office's annual report than the National Audit Office. With regard to this framework, when he said that these frameworks were being breached, it explicitly states here: ‘However, there is a poor situation in which the sustainability of public finances has not been restored to the State’s economic frameworks. Economic signs and, for example, the weather map of the audit agency show that economic growth has started strong. In such a situation, it is precisely public expenditure that should be limited.’
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u221	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u222	Mr President! I must thank Mr Hosko for his good speech, even though it did take some time. It is indeed important to take proper account of these shortcomings raised by VTV and not just leave them blank in the annual report. In other words, the government really has to take the line that a little effort is being made to follow these remarks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u223	Thank you. — I think it is justified to give Mr Viitanen a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u227	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u228	Mr President! Indeed, this bill is designed to correct a little bit of leverage. As far as we are concerned, vans are constantly being received by you, and you do not really know whether they are vans or, so to speak, C1 lorries. There is a difference in total weight of 10 kg, which means a difference in load capacity of 10 kg. This job, that these have come to Finland, is due to our tax reasons. In the past, these C1 light-duty trucks did not have much, because the vans were tax-free, but in the past, when the vans were also transferred to the car tax, these so-called C1 light-duty trucks are exactly the same cars with exactly the same parts, there is nothing more than a 10 kg difference in total weight on paper. The problem has now emerged that this is the case with our driving licence legislation, it is not a mistake, but an older person who has to renew his card every two years, could give away his truck card and combination card, but he should not drive his own C1-class van, i.e. he should change the car to a 10 kg lighter overall weight. The situation is that, at the end of the game, it is really easy to fix this little blunder, which has come about because we still have a category C1 in the legislation, which does not justify, as it were, real big trucks. There would then be a situation in which such older gentlemen and women would not need to have that driving licence kept by force and tested every two years, but would be able to move on to the same thing as in the category B licence that every five years the certificate will be sent to the police. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u229	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u230	Mr President! The extension of the renewal period for driving licences of categories C1 and C1E over the age of 70 to two to five years, as well as the bill on the use of category B driving licences presented by Mr Laakso, seems very flexible and fair, so I warmly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u231	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u232	Mr President! — Let's see if this works. Looks like it's still working. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Laakso for his excellent legislative initiative. Here is an example of how such small mistakes, which remain — or are not — but time becomes — become such a fool, as is the case with this bill presented by Mr Laakso. With that little change, we are serving people and making it possible not to need unnecessary bureaucracy and, at the same time, to secure the possibility of its movement in the future. During the previous government, under Prime Minister Sipilä's government, bureaucracy was demolished: over 300 different such crazy laws were corrected to make sense, so if this government might not be able to do the same, then at least in the following, I would hope that such unnecessary bureaucratic articles will be corrected — it will only serve people, and the taxpayers will thank you for it when the time is right.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u233	Thank you — Representative Niemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Laakso's presentation is very good. This is the same thing I have been thinking about myself, and many times in the old days these requests for the signature of the survival of driving skills came to me too. Now that there is indeed a B-licence and 70 will be full, that is the five-year transitional period before you need the next driving licence. It is absolutely wonderful to have a change in the C1 and C1E driving licences compared to the C and CE driving licences, which require a medical certificate every two years. Indeed, such a van, if it weighs 3,500 kg or 3,450 kg, can then be a C1 light-weight truck, and if it is followed by an E, that is to say, a trailer can be pulled by it, and the requirement for a medical certificate could be transferred every five years, as in the B-driving court, this would really make sense. I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u235	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Mr Wallinheimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u236	Mr President! In my bill on the amendment of the alcohol law, it is a question of clarifying the current legislation and regulation on distance sales of alcohol, which is unclear and well-publicised. The reasons for this bill, Mr President, are as follows: The package of distance sales of alcohol was not clarified in the overall reform of the alcohol law carried out during the parliamentary term 15-19, mainly because there was no political agreement at the time. Finland's alcohol legislation has never had provisions directly related to distance selling, and throughout its membership of the EU it has acted mainly on the regulation of excise duties and the guidance of the authorities. In 2007, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the view was taken that distance selling would be prohibited and so-called distance shopping would be permitted. No law has changed in this context and this alleged ban has never been notified for the EU. On the other hand, in the context of the overall reform of the 15-19 period, the question of distance selling remained unresolved in part because the EU Commission did not accept the ban on distance selling. A separate legislative amendment to the regulation of distance selling also fell in the Commission’s detailed opinion, which stated, inter alia, that the prohibition of distance selling would be a quantitative restriction on imports such as those prohibited in the internal market, unless it could be demonstrated that the measure was an effective and necessary means of achieving certain objectives which were exhaustively defined. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was unable to provide such arguments. Mr President! Despite the fact that there has never been a legal and enforceable ban on distance selling from the point of view of EU law, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u239	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u240	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Wallinheim, for an excellent legislative initiative. After all, this problem has long been known, and I am surprised that it has not yet been raised so strongly in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. We as parliamentarians must also take responsibility for the fact that this has not been corrected during the government negotiations. Well, the next ones will probably correct what will happen, but of course the government can also deal with such a matter without any further request. There are two issues that need to be raised here, which are major problems. Action by the authorities: As we know, the Constitution states that all public activities must be governed by law and the law must be strictly observed. In other words, when we go to some order vendor to read a judgment, it should be based on the law and not by mutating the judgments. The second point is, of course, compliance with the European Union rules, which in general have recently tried to go, how can I put it now, in a flexible way, so that those rules do not matter so much as long as the game is played. I wish we could get this right now. It is certain that one day the European Union will intervene. But, of course, Mrs Wallinheimo may also have to be given a warning that I think the European Union will have other problems in the near future, so that this problem of alcohol in Finland may not now be the top priority. But I would like it to come true and to be put right, because now there is a clear problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u241	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D., please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u242	Mr President! However, distance selling of alcohol is an excellent example of how confusingly unclear legislation can sometimes be in Finland. I also find it very strange that, in certain matters, we blindly follow the law, even in a crazy way, but then in others we have a huge amount of room for thought and an opportunity to interpret things. From the point of view of the police too, this is a very special situation when there is no law prohibiting something, but nevertheless the police should make a decision that it is prohibited. Where will jurisdiction come from, and on what basis would that decision be made? There's no way. There's no way. There's no way. And if so, it would be a matter of arbitraryness, and that is not possible in the Finnish rule of law and in such an advanced democracy. This is a very special situation. For that reason too, I am very much in favour of Mrs Wallinheim's bill. Legislation simply needs to be consistent and clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u243	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u244	Mr President! Indeed, today we were talking about mental health and alcohol problems and others, and that probably stems from the fact that alcohol is seen as a horrendous troll. But this kind of legislation, which is what it is now, and the terrible fighting and twisting with the EU on this issue in practice just for the sake of a fatigue fight, is completely ridiculous, because everyone knows at the moment that when you put an online order away, there will be a stage in the garage in a few days' time. And the situation is that now, with this delay, we are actually only doing harm to our own companies selling alcohol, because at the moment it is all being produced from around abroad, when so-called domestic entrepreneurs are not able to do this, otherwise they are going to be at a non-bread table. I do not want to repeat how unclear and absurd this legislation has been all along. It is extremely good that Mrs Wallinheimo has taken this initiative, and I am absolutely in favour of this initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u245	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u246	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Wallinheim. This bill is very welcome. There's a lot of names in there. Mine's in there too. You have to write your name on a good bill, that's clear. Some years ago, I think the Wallin tribe was also involved, we had a parliamentary group where we wondered what percentage of beer and tentacles could be sold in shops and whether the wines would come to grocery stores or where they would stay. I remember that at the time this issue of distance selling was so unclear and so tricky that it did not get ahead or back when it was not correctly known what it meant by the EU in these matters. In other words, this Act amending the Alcohol Act now concerns the possibility for domestic licensed retail operators to sell their existing retail licence products to consumers also by means of a distance selling and distance purchasing procedure. This would apply to beverage manufacturers, restaurants, grocery stores. This bill really clears the whole thing up, so I wish it would go through. Thank you again to the Wallin tribe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u247	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's go talk to him. — Representative Elomaa, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u249	Thank you. — And Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u250	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Elomaa for a good draft law. — It goes without saying that animals are animals and we must treat animals as animals are to be treated, and it is completely incomprehensible that in such a so-called welfare state ritual slaughters can only be carried out, so to speak, because perhaps the taste is a little better or related to a religious thing, which, frankly, does not even have any scientific evidence — not to mention that this religious group is still a relatively small religious group in our whole country of Finland. Thank you very much to Elomaa for this extremely important and good initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u251	Congressman Mäkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u252	Mr President! I am very much in favour of this bill by Mrs Elomaa, because the humane treatment of animals must be guaranteed by Finnish law. No religious practice or other reason can permit a derogation from the humane treatment of animals. So-called ritual slaughters are not Finnish customs, so they are not the custom of the country, and there is no reason to allow them in any way through legislation. It is also important that the financial resources for animal welfare control are in order to ensure proper control of animal welfare. I hope that Mr Elomaa's initiative will be supported across party lines. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u253	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-06-ps-110.u254	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives who are still here this evening — thank you very much, Mr Hoskonen, Mr Niemi, Mr Mäkynen and Mr Laakso. Thank you very much for these contributions and for the support for the legislative initiative. I have now noticed such a thing, it is now said in a few years' time that, when we rarely talk about animals, the largest group that is defending animal welfare here in the Chamber is the Finns of Peru. I am surprised that there are so few people here who talk about animal welfare, but I am glad that my party has become so aware. - Thank you.
