ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 7/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u2	Madam President! The Government is now in the process of clarifying the Act on Infectious Diseases to the extent that the Regional State Administrative Agencies would also completely close down recreational facilities for the use of fewer than ten persons. As a matter of principle, the background motives of the government’s proposal are a little bit in the process. According to the Government's proposal, the change is small, technical and the result of a misinterpretation of the Regional State Administrative Agency. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also took the view that there was no error of interpretation by the government. According to an expert opinion from the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health had been informed that the purpose of the provision is to completely close the premises, not to prohibit certain activities. With this, the Minister has sought to change the interpretation of the law by the authorities. True Finns stress that restrictions are only justified when they are used to combat the real risk of infection. If the facilities in question can be organised in such a way that the user is not at risk of infection, there is no appropriate justification for the closure of the premises. The closure of premises for the sole purpose of clapping the Regional State Administrative Agency or for the sake of equity is neither necessary nor acceptable. Mr President! So let me ask you once again: is it really absolutely necessary to close down the gyms altogether? The government seems blind to the extent that the order to close affects public health. In addition to jogging, gymnasiums are the last place adults and young people can exercise anymore. Exercise improves physical and mental well-being significantly. In addition, the percentage of all sources of infection is very small. According to information I received from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in January, THL had only known a single mass exposure at the gym. At the same time, it draws attention to the objection of the Finns on the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. According to the report, the committee was not provided with evidence of significant transmission chains from gyms. Mr President! Entrepreneurs have done their part well and have complied with the restrictions imposed, which minimised exposure risks. In addition to existing methods such as disinfection of equipment, it would be possible to require customers to use: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u5	Reply, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u6	Mr President! In order not to remain unclear, I would like to say so much from the point of view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that we are examining the necessity of this change, its proportionality and that it is constitutionally possible to address fundamental rights in this form proposed by the government with a few clarifications and corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u7	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Just a few words. There have been very many shortcomings in the government's preparations that neither health impact assessments nor economic impact assessments have been carried out. Even in this situation, if we look at these businesses and sports facilities, there has already been a great deal of work done there, and it is precisely in line with the recommendations, and the supply chains which are also plagued by this country have not, in the main, left this type of premises. And this health effect, that is, how much health action is left to do because of these blockades: it must always be thought of. Indeed, as Mr Rinne said, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a position here otherwise, but there is a great deal of lack of such an overall impact assessment in this corona period. — Thank you very briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u9	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u10	Tack, värderade talman! Vi behandlar alltså en ändring av 58 g § i lagen om smittsamma sjukdomar, och raus handlar det, precis som tidigare kom fram, om en slags tollingsskillnad mellan regionförvaltningsverken och regeringen beträffande huruvida man kan stanga till exempel ett gym om där är under 10 minniskor. Nu tydliggörs lagen så att man kan stanga de bull urymmena — that is to say, this situation is now clarified. Kommunen eller regionalförvaltningsverket kan alltså fatta beslut om stänning för högst två veckor om området är i spridningsfasen. För tilfället finns det i lagen en uppräkning på vilka lokaler begränsningar kan göras. Konditionssalar — i.e. gyms, theatres — inomhuslekparker, nu tar man bort den hävisningen som gäller kuntalet — i.e. now the number — the busy gör att man till exampleel kan stänga små yogasal också i fortsättningen. Den aus ska gälla till 30.6 — i.e. until the end of June. Och det är är jät det man kan säga avslutningsvis att jag tror under an ox hade bra poänger, också colleague of the Rande om de rauhsoeffekterna, men samtidigt tror jag att det viktigaste vi kan göra ändå är att med alla medel nu strypa den raus pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u11	Madam President! There have been good points in this debate, and the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health rightly stresses the importance of taking into account the importance of physical activity to human well-being and health. We have certainly all learned a lot this year, but there is still a lesson to be learnt that, when things are being prepared, in what way we can do them long enough and in the light of various factors. We are now in this situation to correct this point in the Act on communicable diseases, which came into force in February and which has then shown shortcomings in implementation, and it is good that the possibilities of municipalities and regional government agencies are now being clarified. Mr President! It would be desirable for all measures relating to the management of this disease to be able and, where possible, to take account of situations which differ from one region to another, as well as the impact on human health and well-being. I therefore think it is important that this committee report stresses that, in principle, less restrictive measures should always be used in the first place and that a step-by-step step should be taken if the epidemic situation makes this necessary. But, of course, the background and aim of this change is precisely to safeguard health and even the spirit, and that is the starting point. We all hope that such a complete shutdown of facilities will not even be necessary, but if necessary, then that will be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u12	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u13	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that the committee's report is well prepared and this takes account of the seriousness of the situation. However, we must be very careful about the closures of these sports facilities. This report states that the municipality or the Regional State Administrative Agency may take a decision to exclude customers and participants completely. But, as Mr Aittakumpu said, we are moving from the mildest towards tougher restrictions and we are also aware of the diversity of farms and regions, such as the diversity of their sports facilities, and this really must be a last resort. We have very different sports facilities, as far as gymnasiums alone are concerned. We have hundreds of square cross-fit halls that can be used for health-proof exercise, and it has a big public health and mental significance. I think that this report rightly states that, when considering this closure decision, account must be taken of the knowledge that there will be such a threat to health for these customers or participants. I think it is important, Madam President, that these so-called loopholes in the previous law are now being closed, but this last point is also the case here. And especially when you trust that not only entrepreneurs but also customers will behave correctly according to the instructions, you follow the safety intervals and hygiene rules, but that exercise is, above all, an important tool in this difficult corona situation, of course, so that all of us have the ability to cope with it and have good physical fitness. I hope we do not have to go into these, but if we do, then there must of course also be compensation for the economic disadvantages that have been caused to entrepreneurs and businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u14	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u15	Mr President! I cannot escape the idea that the whole of this Article 58g seems like a little pecking at the doors and a little tight-mouthed conversation between the various authorities. When I have heard experts in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I have not really come up with a clear picture of how many of these infections have come from gyms, for example, and how many of them have come since these restrictions have already been taken, i.e. the corrections to this law, or in fact the paragraph, and why these are actually needed quite separately. We also believe in the assembly that this is a bit too tough a way to close the premises in general, despite the fact that they have taken action. If you look at gyms, for example, at the moment the situation has been that there have been ten square meters per person, and gym operators themselves believe that if this were doubled and there was supervision on the spot, this would be a good intermediate model for completely shutting down the gyms. We have therefore proposed in our protest, which Mr Laiho will point out that the maximum number of persons in sports and sports facilities, such as gyms and swimming pools, would be taken into account by the number of squares of free space, 20 square meters per person, rather than a complete lockdown. Mr President! We believe in the assembly that while the fight against corona is important, we must also think about health and well-being as a whole. For quite a few people in Finland, gyms and swimming pools have been the place where they have been able to relax and escape these coronas. Consideration must also be given to what the financial consequences for these establishments and businesses will be. Many gym entrepreneurs will certainly find this very unfair and then will certainly come for those compensations in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u16	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u17	Madam President! The proposal before us concerns a change in the criteria for the closure of sports and leisure facilities. So far, according to the interpretation of the Regional State Administrative Agencies, the smallest premises have been kept open once customer safety has been ensured. But what is the government doing? In order to maximise poverty, it now wants to close down all the smallest farms, even though it has not shown that these farms have just started the chain of infection. In the committee's deliberations, the People's Party pointed out that the Constitutional Committee has repeatedly called for restrictions to be necessary and proportionate. In order to justify the proposed changes, the government should demonstrate that there have been infections or exposures in the premises that are the subject of the proposal. In addition, in terms of proportionality, the government should argue that the benefits of the restrictions outweigh their disadvantages. This is not what the government has shown. The government has repeatedly stressed, at the level of the speeches, that there are no more restrictions on children and young people. However, actions do not correspond to speeches. Children's and young people's leisure facilities are now being closed even tighter. When physical activity is prevented, it causes significant harm to public health. These are not only physical impairments but also mental health problems. However, the Government has not submitted an impact assessment assessing or weighing these disadvantages. In addition, it should be noted that these are companies whose customers have already lost a significant part of their customers without these new restrictions. Although the turnover is a fraction of the previous one, the costs are unchanged. Entrepreneurs must pay employees' wages, repayments of loans and rents of premises and equipment. Many entrepreneurs already have no cash register as a result of previous restrictions. The government does not propose that these fixed costs be reimbursed fairly to companies in full. Everyone knows that there is now a risk that a large number of companies will go bankrupt, that workers will lose their jobs and that entrepreneurs will lose the assets secured by their loans — even their own home. As regards the government parties, it has often been said that the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s should not be repeated, but what does the government do in practice? Are entrepreneurs going to go bankrupt just as they did during the recession of the 1990s? That is what these measures will lead to. On the other hand, they do not appear to have such an impact on the disease situation. Madam President! On the basis of my arguments, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that this proposal is both inadequately prepared and unnecessary. That is why we are proposing to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u18	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u19	Madam President! This amendment to the Act on communicable diseases also provides for the possibility of closing those areas where there may be less than ten persons today, i.e. gyms and sports facilities. The proposal is tightening up the regulation without knowing whether the current restrictions have been sufficient for their purpose. This proposal also prohibits, without exception, all indoor physical activity that enhances rehabilitation, health and well-being. The proposed law will therefore have a significant impact on the statutory rehabilitation of people, the exercise of children and young people in school, leisure activities, businesses and employees. As a means of fighting the virus, the price of complete closure for entrepreneurs and workers in the sector is high, in addition to punishing the rehabilitation workers of Kela and the well-being and health of people. The economic disadvantages associated with the restriction and closure of the business are still not sufficiently identified. In Finland, there are approximately 1100 commercial fitness and sports centres and in addition there are a large number of other sports businesses and services. According to the Finnish Association of Sports and Sports Centres, procedures have already been initiated for thousands of people in this area. The number of people in fitness centres and other sports facilities shall be limited to the general rules on distance, i.e. 2 metres. For gyms and sports facilities, the number of squares required per person, 9-15 square meters per person, has been used in Europe to ensure health safety. This type of solution could also be used in Finland if it were wanted, but it is made with a big sledgehammer. The Coalition therefore suggests that the number of people active in sports facilities could be limited to a maximum of one participant per area of 20 square metres — and this is even greater than in the rest of Europe. This would also help to organise the possibility of physical activity above health safety during a difficult period of epidemics.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u22	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u23	President! Briefly. I am sure we all share the concern that these blocking measures, or their possible, are very unpleasant solutions. Of course, none of these can rejoice. I would also like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which brings up very good points of view. The reason for all this is, of course, that we are trying to get better control of this burning corona situation, and that eye and the idea must also evaluate this proposal. We cannot escape this fact. However, I myself would call for serious regional considerations to be used in relation to these sports facilities, of course, as an example, especially in the case of children. It is quite clear, as has already been pointed out here in the speeches, that physical exercise is also a health measure that is absolutely essential for many people, both physical and mental. President! In any case, the best thing about health policy, economic policy and industrial policy is that we are suppressing this burning disease, and against it and on the basis of it we must also look at this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u24	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u25	Madam President! We are now dealing with the clarification of Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases, which, as has been heard here, has been the subject of ambiguity in interpretation. This article therefore refers to the last resort by which the municipality or the Regional State Administrative Agency may decide to close the higher disease risk premises completely, for example, in terms of team sports or group sports. This is a temporary measure relating to the fight against covid-19 and would be in force until the end of June. It is clear that these measures limit people's ability to exercise, for example, and in committee we drew attention to this and we also wanted to write about it in our report. It is essential to note the importance of physical activity to people’s overall well-being — no one can deny it. However, prior to possible blocking measures, the inadequacy of all less stringent measures should be recognised. The committee believes that a closure decision should not prevent anyone from having access to statutory services. Of course, there are many questions and doubts about how they will be put into practice. One thing has been horse riding and mannaises, which Mr Laiho spoke about in the previous speech. On the basis of the consultations, the committee saw and interpreted that horse riding is interpreted as individual sport and therefore does not fall within the scope of application of the law. However, these facilities, as in other areas, must, of course, be subject to less stringent measures, such as hygiene and safety interval practices. There are many concerns about restrictive measures. We have talked a lot about children and young people in this Chamber too, and so have we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health about how these restrictive measures will again affect children and young people. We wanted to draw attention to this and note that the application of the section should take into account the opportunities for children and young people to exercise. Of course, it is certainly desirable for all of us to see less stringent measures as being sufficient and more stringent only after more gradual measures have been introduced, and only if these less stringent measures are not enough and seen as necessary would these containment measures be introduced. There will certainly be economic consequences if the farms are closed down. On this point, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also made a proposal to speed up the preparation of the compensation model in the event of these closures.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u26	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u27	Madam President! This clarification of the scope of the Act on communicable diseases is, of course, important in itself, and, as has been pointed out in many of the speeches made by our fellow Members, the aim is that we are now able to protect the lives and health of all people and indeed to suppress this epidemic. In that sense, these clarifications, which are now on the table, are of course necessary. However, I think that there are some good withdrawals in the objection, and in this speech by the previous Member, there was also an explanation that the committee had also looked at this issue and that it was stated that, necessarily, agility and similar facilities, for example, in the field of horse racing and outdoor sports, might not even be interpreted as falling within the scope of this law. Well, this point is of course good then, in practice, to show that it is. [Leena Sea interlude] However, these two points have been raised here in the objection to the Assembly, and in that sense I thought that, in this objection, it might be justified to support this amendment to the section on that basis. Also these facilities used in rehabilitation: I also wonder that we have a lot of exercise facilities that are still in use for such medical rehabilitation, and in that sense they are a little different from someone else, mainly for the maintenance of their own condition, for example, gym activities. And in that sense I wonder whether the line has perhaps been drawn within the committee, that this paragraph would not mean that it would not be possible to close these premises, such medical rehabilitation facilities, because they are extremely important at a time when a person is going through a certain rehabilitation period of this kind, that it can also be taken to the end. Mr President! For the rest, it seems that the committee has done a very unanimous piece of work. These statements have, of course, raised the issue of how these issues should be corrected and replaced, above all, and then taken account of these exceptions, but there are still very few proposals for amendments to the articles.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u28	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u29	Mr President! Legislation should be such that its interpretations do not lead to action against the aims of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u32	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u34	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u35	Mr President! In Finland, this corona situation has been quite reasonable compared to many other countries, but now that the situation here has deteriorated very quickly, we must all be crisis conscious in the face of this. We must, honestly and with open eyes, see what has happened in the rest of the world. We must also be able to relate to what we are now trying to achieve in Finland by means of these measures, to the kind of prevention that has progressed in the rest of the world. If we look back a few months, Europe was almost entirely closed, Britain was closed, New Zealand was closed. When we look at the countries we admire, we note that the disease was contained there, their starting point was very dramatic, and they introduced measures that completely closed the societies there — curfews, businesses, shops. Only the necessary pharmacies and grocery stores have been allowed to remain open. There is no talk that gyms, for example, could have been open. Now all of us are called upon to be resilience, to have a state of will and to be aware of the crisis. It cannot be that, on the one hand, restrictive measures are required, but not those that concern themselves. We're all in this same boat.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u41	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u42	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! When I listened to this conversation there a moment ago, it came to mind that there is a saying that there are things that no one supports and that move forward, and then there are things that everyone supports and that do not move forward. This actually occurred to me when I listened to the speeches from the centre, but it seems that the Social Democrats now have very strong support for the fact that these gyms are being closed, therapy, rehabilitation and other activities are being driven down, and I am sorry to say that I cannot understand this. This previous speech by Mr Guzenina was, however, confusing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u47	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u48	Mr President! Indeed, in this debate on the part of the opposition, it is as if this bill is now forcing the doors to close certain sports facilities. This really makes it clear in which cases the doors have the discretion to temporarily close these particular premises. In other words, as has already been mentioned in this debate, the inadequacy of less stringent measures is a prerequisite for a decision to close the premises. We all understand that physical activity is important for health, but it is also important for health to prevent the spread of a dangerous infectious disease. All of us in Parliament receive quite a lot of e-mail from entrepreneurs in different fields who tell us how little these infections are in their area. However, it is good to remember that only about 60 percent of infections have been successfully identified as the source of the infection. Four out of ten infections fail to determine where the infection came from. And now with this common sense of country or city, it is easy to conclude that the source of the infection is easier to determine when you know the people you have been dealing with at the time of the probable infection. Instead, if you have been to places where you meet strangers, the source of the infection is more difficult to determine.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u51	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u52	Madam President! That's the background first. I do not know what reference has been used behind this blocking function, but after all we have been taking this corona virus devil for a year, and we are probably used to many of these restrictions and practices, and this general hygiene and other means of keeping distance is quite obvious. In this reference pattern, when these foreign references came in, what kind of reference is there: hopefully these Korean studies have not been used here, where 30 people have been stuffed into 50 square meters, but instead these domestic bases, larger ones, are used, for example, in our 500 or 1000 squares gyms. According to one sports company, they have had two million physical activity visits during the year and have become three exposures, which led to quarantine, but not to further infections according to their knowledge. They did some very hygienic work, though. One company in this city had a helper to check out, and there was nothing that they could have complained about. So I only applied for the fact that these domestic companies have a strong will to act in accordance with the rules, but on the other hand, these our companies have been kept like a loose stall all the time that comes with this kind of image suddenly that these would be those high-risk places. — — — — This is from the bottom. And now to this performance itself: In my opinion, the committee has very well taken the view that the committee considers exercise and the exercise of people to be necessary and stresses that overall well-being involves physical activity and maintains health. This is quite true at the moment, for example for young people who use gymnasiums. They are excluded from schools or universities, and there is at least a place where you can practice your own hobbies. The committee also stresses here that the closure of farms is a last resort which can only be used in a situation where the epidemic is spreading and there are no other means of preventing it. I wonder what Mr Heinonen has to say on this point. Then, if this is the case, it is good to have a statement here that this compensation would come fully and would be produced on a timely schedule. As regards the Constitutional Committee, there is also the fact that ‘a fundamental obligation orrestriction can only be set as a rate to combat an epidemic if it cannot be prevented from spreadingto fundamental rights by So here, too, there is a good emphasis on the fact that other options have been sought. And the closure decision does not prevent anyone from having access to statutory services. [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : I request that a representative be transferred to the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u55	Okay. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u56	Mr President! It is now essential to have a debate on this government proposal, precisely from the point of view of whether these restrictions are appropriate, as the government representatives have now argued here, that only appropriate proposals are being made here. Now that we are listening to these speeches, of course, we must ask how much these measures are going to be suffered by companies if the avi will begin to interpret this state of government's will so that they will completely close down gyms, spas and even the manes of the horses' stables, where there has probably never been any infection. Of course, it is up to the avi to exercise this discretion as such, but even at the moment the avis have used it very well, in my opinion. For example, this frenzy of closing the gyms has come up with some ministers, and I do not think that we are seeing this whole thing here. There are studies: in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, millions of visitors who have visited the gym have been studied and the percentage of people infected has been very low in relation to the number of visitors. As Pirttilahti said a moment ago, Finland has also studied the infection rates of Forever, one of the largest gym chains, and they have been so marginally small that they do not fit in any fork. Gym entrepreneurs are able to register almost every visitor today because they usually have digital means to do so already, so the chains can be traced from there if they want to. The reason why it is so important to defend these sports and fitness entrepreneurs is simply because they play such an extremely important role in the rehabilitation of a person's life. There are many people who need rehabilitation, such as these therapy pools in swimming pools, and if all of them are categorically closed, then their rehabilitation will stop there. There are a lot of people who need the help of a gym or instructor to stay at the top of the job. This is not just fun that can be left aside for three weeks — this is a lifeline for many. In addition, there are many proven cases of mental illness that begin to upset people when they close to their homes. Together with these Government proposals and the restrictions on movement that will be discussed tomorrow, it is no wonder that the Finnish people's faith in the government's actions is beginning to waver. We have to make proportionate decisions, we have to make timely decisions — yes, we understand this in the opposition, we support all the right decisions — but if the decisions start to go so far as not to be justified, such as, for example, this number of transmission chains in sports facilities, then a cannon will be fired on a fly. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we do, of course, have a lot of problems in the fight against the interest rate, and they are usually regional. We know in the capital region where the big problems, the contagion clusters, are. They are in those areas where the people who live do not take this coronavirus pandemic so seriously and do not comply with the restrictions. If they did not follow them until now, how do you think that they will follow these laws when further provisions are made, for example, regarding physical exercise restrictions? I do not believe that these means will answer the questions that are important for protecting human health. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u57	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u58	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I support Mr Reijonen's motion for rejection. I have listened with interest to this debate. In fact, I shall start with what has become of the Socialist Group. Congressman Guzenina, you made a speech about the need to be crisis conscious. I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber, apart perhaps from someone I am not mentioning, would think that we do not have a corona and that this is not a serious disease. We have discussed what we should do. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the government as a whole have often said that the necessity criterion must be and must always be, first and foremost, taken lighter measures and then tightened them up, and we also discussed this in Question Time today. But not all means are in place yet. Mr Hassi pointed out that border security is now in order with this new proposal, which has come that the aid can now carry out these checks. Well, first of all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that this would have been possible under an earlier law, but felt that it would not be a problem if this were to be the case for the second time. But, Congressman Hassi, you could listen. You have still not brought the proposal that Finland should demand a negative certificate for the arrivals. Twenty-one other countries demand this. Mr Guzenina, you said that we should take a model from the rest of the world. Well, yeah. Here, for example, is one performance where you do not follow the example of the rest of the world. I don't know why you can't get it here. There have been reports of government ranks, such as Minister Kiuru, many times — and the public still think so — that Parliament overturned it. Parliament has not overturned it, but you can ask the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for example, what was said in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There it said that this kind of legislation is possible and it has acceptable grounds, but that presentation therefore went to lazy homework. Minister Harakka drew the right conclusions and withdrew the proposal. But that was more than six months ago, and then at the same time all kinds of ideological proposals are being made and the time spent in the ministry by officials is being used. Why, for example, does the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health not spend time bringing these laws here? That's what I'm wondering. It's a total choice of values. It's an ideological choice. It's a policy in the corona era. Then I'd like to bring up the horse hobby and the dog hobby. In this committee's opinion, I am somewhat disturbed by the fact that, as if the committee did not understand that this is an animal. We're talking about individual sports here. So the animal is not an instrument or an object, but an individual in need of care, and if the horse is not moved even seven days a week — there are shoes, bristles, everything else, even inside — it can easily be an animal - protection offense. Somehow I feel that the committee has not understood this. For example, Mrs Essayah well pointed out that the members of the committee here said that the committee had stated that this was not covered by this. Why has this committee's report not made it clear? We've got the preliminary work of the law here. It can be said here that the committee stresses that this should not be interpreted in this way and this way. Why haven't you? [Left : Hashish! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u59	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u60	Madam President! The Government's proposal therefore proposed a temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases by clarifying the possibility for the municipality and the Regional State Administrative Agency to close the business premises for customers for a limited period. So the government is here seeking to clarify the law specifically in order to make its application as clear as possible and in line with the purpose of the original law. In my opinion, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health well emphasised in its report that the closure of farms is indeed a last resort and can only be used in a situation where there is no other way to prevent the spread of the epidemic. In my opinion, Mr Könttä made a good point in this Chamber earlier on, for example, how different gyms and gym operators we have in our country. I have visited several gyms myself, and there are big differences in ventilation, for example. There are such halls where there is a completely new technique to prevent particles from spreading in the air, and then there is another extreme hall where, by opening a window, it is managed by ventilation. There are major financial differences in the investments that entrepreneurs have invested in such ventilation, among other things. There is also new technology, such as the disinfection of equipment, that the equipment is basically disinfected by itself every time users switch from one device to another, and then there are halls again, which basically contain only disinfectant bottles and are disinfected. There are great differences between these entrepreneurs as to how much investment has been made not only in farm organisms and cubes but also in these devices. That is why I think it is very important that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has pointed out in its report that it is also necessary to safeguard the right of the trader to reasonable compensation and compensation for the losses incurred by the entrepreneur as a result of these restrictive measures. And now it is already known that, since the restrictions are of course detrimental to the trader if the halls are closed, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is in the process of preparing for the financial losses caused by the closure of customer premises. I believe that the committee has actually raised these problems here, and there are clear proposals for improvements and changes to this initial government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u61	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u62	Mr President! This wretched corona has meant a difficult time all over the world and, of course, here in Finland. In such a situation, it is important for the public and for these strict restrictive measures to be transparent and reliable. In this respect, the government, which, in my opinion, has handled the corona epidemic relatively well, has not been very successful. On the contrary, certain documents have been encrypted and encrypted on grounds such as Professor Mäenpää, who is our first expert in administrative law — as I might say — has even been criticised as not based on law. Similarly, he has said that when more and more restrictive measures have to be taken, it is important for their acceptability that they be made public as openly as possible. Now I have to ask in this connection: what has been agreed on the order of vaccination in connection with the negotiation of these restrictive measures within the government? And now, Madam President, I am not taking a position on what needs to be done with this vaccination order, but on what has been agreed. In social media, Emma Kari, President of the Greens’ Parliament Group, has written verbatim: “We have agreed to focus vaccinations on the worst epidemic areas. “ Furthermore,MrAndersAdlercreutz, Chairman of the RKP Group,has announced on Wednesday night that:‘We have also agreed on a proposal from the RKP “ Madam Speaker! During Question Time, Minister Saarikko was asked about this issue, and he stressed the need to speak the truth and be honest before Parliament, and what did he say? He replied about this — this is not a verbatim quote — that no proposal has been submitted to the government for the order of vaccination or for its revision. I don't think he answered what was asked. Has there been an agreement within the government on this vaccination order, as announced by representatives Kari and Adlercreutz? Now there are no ministers here, but there are a number of former and all future ministers, so I ask you, representatives of the government parties: has there been any agreement on this vaccination order? — And I'm going to go back to that talking room. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u72	Reply, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know whether something has been agreed within the government, but I would like to say that I remember at least a few public speeches from the Prime Minister when he said that this was an official assessment by the authorities — what is the official name of the group of vaccines that makes assessments on the basis of scientific knowledge — how to vaccinate? I believe that everyone shares the view that there will be precise vaccination at the same time as the risk groups and the different variations in risk groups throughout the country. Since then, this has been said on several occasions in public, it is also possible for this group of experts to assess the areas where the disease is spreading more strongly, where these measures are being applied, whether it is appropriate to direct the vaccines in that direction, and I think that this is a perfectly reasonable reflection. It is an evaluation task for experts, and that is what has been said about the government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u74	Let us take a small debate here, but then we shall go to the list of speakers, and unless there is a special need, there will be no reply. — Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u75	Mr President! I must be surprised at the government's communication line on this vaccine programme, which would be happy to hear the answers to the questions raised by Mr Zyskowicz about what the government has set out in relation to this vaccination order. If this information is true that the government has been directed to concentrate vaccinations on those areas where the situation is the most difficult, then I will support it. If we look at the latest figures, according to press reports, about 12% of the population in the HUS area have been vaccinated and 508 infected yesterday. By comparison, 17.5% of the population have already been vaccinated in Eastern Savo and 1 infection has been detected yesterday. I do not think this is right or sensible policy, but I think it is clear that when the situation in the HUS region is difficult, vaccinations should and should be concentrated here. I would also like to highlight the situation of professional groups who cannot work remotely but whose work necessarily involves human contacts: police officers, teachers, day care workers, public transport drivers. I believe that consideration should be given to the possibility of prioritising these occupational groups in this vaccine programme once the risk groups and the social workers have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u76	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u77	Mr President! In fact, the national vaccine group proposed to do exactly what Mr Rinne said in this regard that it might be sensible to do. However, it has been stated here today that the chairmen of both the Greens and the RKP’s parliamentary groups have, through the social media, made a direct quotation: ‘We have also agreed on the presentation of the RKP and the Greens that vaccinations are targeted in accordance with the recommendations to the regions worst run by the pandemic. “ In fact, this recommendation was that the emphasis should begin already during the time when the risk groups are being vaccinated, because it will take about three weeks to change, and then we could save more lives, the need for serious medical treatment here, where the worst disease situation is. Well, apparently the government has not said that now, because in the Twitter debate that I started here, Mr Aittakumpu says that this has not been agreed, and then, in fact, Anders Adlercreutz says that, well, in fact, it may not have been quite the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u78	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u79	Mr President! It is good that, although we are now talking about the amendment of Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases, we are also talking about this vaccine issue, because this is an acute issue, and it is very good that the opposition will be able to find out about this. I believe that we should give serious priority to what the National Vaccination Expert Group (KRAR) has recommended. They are specifically responsible for monitoring the development of the vaccine sector and in particular vaccination programmes, preparing proposals from the THL to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and preparing recommendations from the THL on the use of vaccines outside the national vaccination programme. In other words, it is their task, in this particular situation, to be the one who, by its own authority, also modifies the decision-making of the government. I cannot say what might have been discussed or decided within the government, any more than anyone else in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u80	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u81	Mr President! The confusion caused by the combination of mobility restrictions and vaccinations is surprising. Here in Question Time, Minister Saarikko appeared to be speaking in a different way, and at the same time the chairmen of the Greens and the RKP parliamentary groups spoke in a different way, just as Mr Marin said yesterday in Studio A that there is no button shop, and then we will hear today that more vaccinations will be targeted at Uusimaa. As far as I am concerned, I am in favour of targeting those vaccinations here in New Zealand, where there have been significant restrictions for a long time, but it would also be important for communication to be transparent and honest and for both citizens and Parliament to be clearly informed about where they are going and what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u82	Mr Kyllönen, and then Mr Zyskowicz, whose speech started the debate, then we go to the list of speakers. — Mr Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u83	Madam President! Because the question that I have so much appreciated, even the one I sometimes love — the confession — was raised by Mr Zyskowicz, who also went to the old ministers in No changes to the vaccination schedule have been agreed by the government. The STM will look at this issue on the basis of this proposal from the national vaccine group, and of course the experts will be asked to make recommendations and opinions and ideas, but the starting point is that such decisions are not taken on political grounds but will be taken forward if the health authorities believe that this should be done. At the moment, the national vaccine group has also not made the kind of direct proposal that the government has begun to deal with. I hope that this speculation will be put to an end at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u85	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u86	Madam President! Thank you for the answers received and thank you to the President for allowing a small debate. It is quite different to say, as the Prime Minister has said, that this matter will be examined and it is quite different if, as Mr Saarikko, as the Prime Minister's deputy, Minister Saarikko has said, no proposal has been brought to the government. I'm sure these are true. But is it true what Mr Kari has written: ‘We have agreed to focus vaccination on the worst epidemic areas’? ? Is it true what Mr Adlercreutz has told us that it has been agreed to place emphasis on this order of vaccines in this way? Are these real?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u89	And then to the list of speakers. — Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u90	Mr President! Of course, it is really embarrassing for the government not to be able to clarify what was agreed there on the vaccination order.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u95	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u96	Madam President! There are particular concerns and questions in people's minds at the moment about the necessity and proportionality of restrictions — words that have been repeated many times in today's debate — both their interpretation and their control. People are calling for reason, and we really do need to make sense. Mr Vestman has just spoken about public health, and I cannot refrain from raising the question and the amazement that I have just received that, at the same time as the sports facilities are being closed, for example, the doors of the openings will remain open even according to the government's new restrictions plans. So you can go to the liquor store, but you can't go to the gym. Does this make any sense?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u97	Congressman Mari Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u98	Mr President! First of all, I would like to start with this debate on the vaccine, which Mrs Zyskowicz rightly raised and questioned here. That is what I would like to return to today's Question Time: first Minister Saarikko said that individual targeting can be done after the vaccination of risk groups, and then, when asked again, he said that there was no proposal for this to the government, so two questions answered very contradictoryly in this regard. Here Mr Kyllönen said that when KRAR has not made a direct proposal to the government, this is not the case. Well, KRAR doesn't make a proposal to the government, but KRAR makes his presentation to THL, who prepares it for the STM, who presents it to the government, who makes the regulation if it is to do so, so this is how it is going to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u101	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u102	Madam President! Direct quote, In the Evening Journal: ‘‘The Board of Directors also discussed the order of vaccination, and together we have confirmed that risk groups and groups in the current Regulation,e.g.social and healthcare staff,hospital residents and staff,are responsible for vaccinationinall Finlandin accordance with the current Regulation,because people belonging to Marin answered the evening magazine’s question. “After this, when the groups have been vaccinated, vaccinations may be targeted at a greater number As regards preparation, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and THL, and THL", Marin confirmed the emphasis on the allocation of corona vaccinations at the start of the mass vaccination of primary healthy working-age people in Finland. The Centre has not yet taken a position on changing the vaccination order. The Centre shall take a position on the matter if such a proposal is made by experts. In any case, vaccination should first be carried out in groups over 70 years of age and at risk and preferably in those aged 16 to 69 years of age with a very high predisposing disease to severe coronavirus disease, and in those aged 18 to 69 who have a disease or other predisposing factors to severe coronavirus disease. Corona vaccine is to be offered free of charge to all who wish to take it.’
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u108	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u109	Mr President! It has been called for on several occasions in this Chamber that it is important for the government to communicate in a sufficiently clear manner what these interest rate measures mean to the various players in this society, but it would also be hoped in this Chamber that, when there is a debate here, the message here too would be such as not to cause unnecessary concern among the various actors in society. This crisis is serious enough without it. Now that we have come to this debate, I would like to refer it back to this very subject, namely the amendment of Article 58g of the Act on Disease Control. In this regard, I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has done a good job on the basis of what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said in its own opinion. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stresses that, when, for example, a decision to close a gym is being considered, account must be taken of the known expertise as to whether the physical proximity of customers or participants constitutes, or at the same time, the number or other location of persons present in the premises or the spread of the disease through the surface for the spread of covid-19. In addition, account must be taken of whether there is a specific possibility for significant transmission chains to be created in the operation or on the premises available to it. The committee also considers that, before the closure decision in accordance with Article 58g, the Authority must, inter alia, seek to influence the safe use of the premises by means of information control. The adequacy of the measures provided for in Article 58c on hygiene and the maintenance of distance between customers must also be assessed before any closure decision is taken. I think this is a very clear text. And now I am not being looked in the eye by anyone in the United States — apart from representatives Vestman and Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u110	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u111	Mr President! Mrs Kyllönen has already responded quite well to the issues raised in this debate, but a few points could be raised. Although Mr Vestman argued a little differently, yes, this proposal clarifies this Article 58 bill of what it was the previous time. This is in connection with the fact that the reference to Article 58g to Article 58d(3) was made here, and it was an issue which, in the interpretation of the authorities, raised doubts as to the location of more than 10 persons inside the premises for more than 50 persons. This point was added where it was suggested that this Article 58g may also apply to places where there are fewer indoors than 10 persons and that there are less than 50 outside, i.e. Article 58g is not customer-specific. This was the focus that came in. In that sense, Mr Vestman is right that it did change this whole — you are not mistaken — but the starting point was that this Article 58 was clarified in order to ensure that everyone has the same view that, when it is absolutely necessary, all other means have been taken, the regional government authority or the local authority responsible for communicable diseases will also have the possibility to close these smaller gyms, for example, but only when absolutely necessary. The most important thing is that we certainly do not want to have any Members of Parliament, and certainly not in the committee, to go and close these premises — we certainly do not want to go. It is therefore absolutely essential that all the other Articles 58b, (c) and (d) be interpreted as meaning that: In the case of a small property where 10 persons are interested in physical activity, where there is a high potential for this to beacquired. That possibility must be, but this section does not in any way mean that this automatically closes these seats. [President : 3 minutes!] — — — — I'm moving. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u112	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u113	Madam President! These government measures would catch up with hairdressers and other special shops and small service industries, sports and clothing shops and so on and so on, because they would be banned from moving to them. There are quite lonely entrepreneurs in empty business spaces paying for all the violins, and you... I can't find the words. It is said that work has been done night and day in the Government to bring about good legislation. There was an inconceivable mix of mishaps and illogicalities. That has become clear. Take an example: My esteemed merchant from Somero, Congressman Lundén, threw me a good illustration of the utter madness of government restrictions. I can go to Prisma and buy tennis shoes, but I can't go to a stone-foot shop and buy tennis shoes. Tell me, good government, no matter which one of you members of the government parties: What logic, what is the point of equality and what is the point of this? Are you trying to do something for a small entrepreneur or not? I can say no, because this is insane. Come on, let's go. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, I don't like wearing this rag. [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : Representative,as an excuse,I would remind you that we have been dealing with an infectious disease law. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u122	And I urge this Chamber to stick to the issues that are being discussed at any given time and not to talk about the things that may be coming into this Chamber. — Mr Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u123	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with this amendment to Article 58g of the Act on Disease Control, which therefore specifies, as the representatives of the government parties would like to say, this Article 58g and, at the same time, Article d. This means that decisions could be taken by the Regional State Administrative Agencies to close down gyms, indoor playgrounds and so on. Maybe I won't go any further. However, it is quite clear from this report — even from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — that, although the regulation was unclear, the decision which was taken by the authorities on the basis of the previous legislation, i.e. the legislation in force, was correctly interpreted and, in fact, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in its report at the time, also drew attention to this. It was in need of clarification if there was a clear desire to close the premises. This is where Mr Berg said that we do not want to close these premises.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u128	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u129	Mr President! In this Chamber, in particular, the Assembly has called for all measures to be taken before entering the restrictions on movement. On the other hand, we have just heard here the opposition to the less restrictive measures proposed by the present draft law. But, Mr President, quite briefly: However, since the government has been accused of not informing the government, reference has been made to the tweets of the group presidents Emma Karin and Anders Adlercreutz, we have all received the STT text message 13.25, which says that ‘the Prime Minister has verified the model of preparation of STM and THL which could be used to target vaccines in the worst epidemic regions after the risk groups have been vaccinated’. In other words, just as Minister Saarikko said, the risk groups will be vaccinated first, the elderly and the working-age risk groups. And he also said that there is no proposal on the board table. Well, it is not, but it has been agreed that STM and THL will prepare this model. This is one of the things we can do to speed up the control of this epidemic throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u130	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u131	Mr President! When Mrs Kyllönen spoke there a moment ago, I was a little puzzled about how the Left Alliance was now being told to Finnish entrepreneurs what was best for them. It seems the best thing for the Left Alliance is to order the gym operators to shut down their gym. But, Mrs Kyllönen, these gym entrepreneurs themselves disagree with you, and I trust these gym entrepreneurs, at least in entrepreneurship policy, much more than you, Mrs Kyllönen, and the left-wing party you represent. Mr President, it seems that it is difficult to combine the chairmanships of the People’s News and the Parliamentary Group of the Government. [Laughter] Then, at the same time — this centralised communication — the Greens tell us what the STT tells us, that the right decision has now been taken in the STT text message, and it was not Mrs Karin's Instagram picture, where she told it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u132	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u133	Mr President! I myself drew attention to Mrs Kyllönen's statement that it would be better for the businesspeople to catch up than to allow them to continue their activities. Those gym operators I know would like to continue their business with health security, which is possible under the current Act on communicable diseases, and to provide work for their own employees. They do not want to lay off their employees because of this lock that the government is now regulating. I would like to ask Mr Berg: can you now guarantee that the gyms will not be closed as a result of this change in section 58g? You really said that this is not something they want, that is to say to close gyms, sports centers. Can you guarantee now that this will not happen? In fact, the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has explicitly stated that the application of Article 58g is possible in urgent situations where no decision has been taken in accordance with Article 58d, i.e. even this step-by-step approach will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u136	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Restrictive measures are a big whole, and it is a little difficult to talk about this one piece at a time. I took the earlier shout that ‘Mr Peltokangas,stay on the topic’,with a slight amount of attention,if you recall that we had already heard Mr Zyskowicz’s speech on this — By the way, it has nothing to do with this performance. — I hope, of course, that there will be a level playing field with the idea of who to yell at, but perhaps everyone can draw their own conclusions from it. It has now come to light that this does not apply at all to manes and individual hobby. However, when I look at this report from the committee, it is stated here that decisions can be taken in accordance with Article 58d. So, then, can they not be subject to decisions and restrictions? That's how I understand. Then on this individual sport: This should have been specified here in the committee report. This is exactly what I meant: perhaps there is not quite an understanding of what the hobby is all about. For example, if there is one rider in a larger riding school, hear, one at a time, it is not enough for 24 hours to move those animals. In that sense, I would like to see a study of these matters before we come here strongly to say that this is the case or is the case. As has become quite clear here, gymnasiums could very well become one or two people at a time. It seems that there has been such a rush to do this thing when you follow all this conversation that no one really knows who agreed, what agreed, who it was, whether it was STT, Evening magazine, Green or who it was and what it was and what it was, and then think about it, when it's like this, that people don't have time in their everyday lives to look and read these papers so carefully as we, who do this for a living. I don't think they understand what they're doing here and what they're saying they can't do it and this. I understood that this was where they wanted the information to be in one hands. Well, it's not gonna get any better. I am not surprised, though, that people may not have been able to follow all the recommendations, since many probably do not know what they really are if the government does not even know what they have agreed with each other. I shall now ask when Mr Zyskowicz received an answer to his question, which was what it was, and I have now asked for many days in a row: because the government is bringing that motion on the negative testimonies at the border? Can you please, at least one representative, answer — when is it promised to come — when will it come? I don't see anyone, not one person getting up, so you don't want to answer it. — Thank you. We're done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u138	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u139	Madam President! Indeed, at the moment, when companies are to be put on a tight footing with constant feed, would it be possible to make such a business in this business world that, in the event of bankruptcy, private companies would be treated in exactly the same way as public limited companies? There would be a lot of businesses and entrepreneurs who would be willing to close down without your coercive order if they did not have the entire — often even tens of years — assets to secure their debts. There are brutal numbers of entrepreneurs hanging out there trying to fight and come up with access over the next month — from the following bills that banks want to pay for mortgages, financial companies for equipment purchases or the like — just because the company is not followed by an oy, but by a business name, ay, or something like that. When you make such a legal amendment that private companies are treated in the same way as public limited liability companies in the event of bankruptcy, quite a few entrepreneurs will then have some prospect and can actually say that ‘no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.’ I myself have experienced this for a different reason, but I know what it is that after 25 to 30 years of catching something, houses and so on, and they go with it. At least I had some chance to do something about it, but now if the government is forcing its business to zero, it is completely unreasonable for these people to lose their entire fortunes because of it and there is no prospect of remedying it. I think that is really, really wrong. Please bring the government's proposal here in the Chamber so that the normal company names, limited companies and the like can be reached in the same situation as the limited companies. It is a different matter if there has been illegal activity in the company’s business or similar, it does not belong to it, but if the company falls simply because the company is not able to stand up, then their debts do not mean that the entire property is going to leave. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u140	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u141	Mr President! Here Mrs. Kyllönen earlier reported on the article in the Evening magazine that the government has not yet decided on this issue of vaccination. I am sure it is clear now, but it can also be said that it has not yet been decided to change the vaccination order. So it can be said in the same way that it was at least misleading for the chairman of two parliamentary groups to say so. I would also like to say to Mrs Kyllönen that I appreciate an experienced representative, a long-standing politician, but perhaps also somewhat reasonably, I hope that you will understand that, as representatives of the opposition, we are very often dependent on media data on what the government is planning. I do not know whether you, the MPs of the government parties, have more information in good time, but it appears to us that very good anticipation has not been achieved as regards these step-by-step constraint measures. I remember when Minister Kiuru told me here that this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, which is now being amended, has been prepared throughout the autumn. Well, at the same time, obviously, there was also the preparation of the social welfare proposal, which was a rather large package of preparations, and the resources for the preparation of all ministries are limited — we have heard that many times too. When this whole autumn was being prepared, perhaps one could have imagined that it would have been right, so to speak, at once. And secondly, now that we have prepared, apparently several weeks already, these restrictions on movement, it would have been very important at the same time to prepare the compensation model, the aid package which will support these companies, which will now suffer from restrictions on movement if they are introduced, as well as for those companies that will lose virtually all turnover when they are caught. Another hope in the direction of the government parties is that, now that it seems that restrictions on movement are at least being dealt with by Parliament — and if they go through here with clean papers, the government will probably then issue a regulation restricting mobility to a wide range of companies — and it would certainly now be justified to re-establish the accelerated lay-off procedure and, on the other hand, faster unemployment benefits for workers, in order to reduce the uncertainty that workers and entrepreneurs have about their own future. Finland has been strong in that we have had a very predictable environment, and hopefully, in the midst of the crisis, we will remember that it is also very important for people in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u142	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u143	Mr President! This motion without rejection and the debate on it sadly reflects this government, its understanding of matters and its ability to prepare. There would have been time, and a half-baked act of this kind is being brought here, with nothing more than entrepreneurship and arrogance, the inability to put oneself in the position of another, the feeling of losing his entire livelihood. You could expect this from the left, when we all know that you do not understand anything about productive work or trying and you do not want to do things for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u144	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u145	Madam President! It has been very confusing to listen to this confusion about the order of vaccination. It is clear that there have been discussions on the vaccination order, and the various government parties gave a little different information. We need to think very carefully about how, for example, police officers who control order and maintain the law and who have not been vaccinated are in a way able to do their job if they are not vaccinated in good time — and people who carry out medical transport, for example, who carry corona patients, or even pharmacists who take care of the safety and security of supply in Finland. However, it is worth paying attention to these. I am terribly surprised that this vaccination order is so unclear and so unclear has been this information. We need to invest more in information. The public has a very uncertain feeling and an idea of who will be vaccinated first and who will be the last. That of course information is the number one thing, and we need to invest even more in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u146	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u147	Madam President! Now there has been a lot of talk about these gymnasiums, and yes I think it is likely that the regional government agencies will act according to the law and the outcome is that it will easily happen there for all kinds of special sports groups and such elderly people who require more than once a week something pool exercise or other, this will cause a lot of problems, and I could imagine that the same will also apply to top sports. That this law of yours is not very clear now. When we talk about restrictions on physical activity and then talk about restrictions on movement — Mr Multala's little one took the debate to the restrictions on movement — do you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties really have the money to impose these restrictions on movement? I would have liked to have asked a few questions to the ministers during that Question Time, but it was not quite possible, Madam President. You are all aware that these restrictions on movement will cause problems for entrepreneurs, for specialist businesses, and it will lead companies towards destruction or bankruptcy. It is known that these are the merits of the blocking measures that I have mentioned above, and I would like you to have something clear that you intend to replace them with these companies, whether they are sports businesses or car shops, whatever they are. As Multala mentioned there, now, if you impose restrictions on movement, there should be automation, and hopefully it is automation, so that these companies can hold a meeting at the same time on a day's notice or a day so that they do not have to wait five weeks for the staff to be laid off. Think of some car dealership in Turku with 20 car dealers, and you place restrictions on movement, so what do you think will happen when employees have the right to go to work but customers do not come there at all? [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : I request that a representative be transferred to the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u152	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u153	Mr President! We have had a good debate here today and, of course, we must also accept criticism. In my life, I have dealt with a number of victims of the recession of the 1990s, entrepreneurs who have lost their whole life’s work — and that is not all: I have taken care of their children. It is a long cycle, and I really hope that we do not have such a cycle ahead of us. I see that the only option for us at this point is to deal with this epidemic as quickly and effectively as possible and even with quite drastic measures. That's what this is all about. We do not want to close these premises, that is not what this is about, but, in the necessary situation, these restrictions would be reached. But I wanted to point out that we are all concerned about the situation of entrepreneurs, which has been mentioned a lot here today, not only by entrepreneurs, but also by workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u154	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u155	Madam President! It is good to continue with that speech by Mrs Viljanen. In other words, I have just mentioned the so-called ‘rapid lay-offs’ which give the entrepreneur the opportunity to deal with this if the workers are able to lay You have to give these companies this opportunity. I will throw you this kind of small nut yet that in what way these instant layoffs can be introduced and in what way you can manage so that layoffs do not become a financial delay for entrepreneurs or employees. We are now living in such a time that people are up to their ears in pee and these closures will cause difficulties for either entrepreneurs or workers or both, depending on how you manage it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u156	The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. So now we're taking a ten-minute break. This session will be adjourned and we will resume at 21.45.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u157	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 9:35 p.m. and the second item on the agenda. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u158	Mr President! I propose an amendment to section 58g: temporary closure of premises from customers and participants to prevent the spread of the covid-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u159	Mr President! I support Mr Laiho's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u160	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 7/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Vartiainen, presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u161	Mr President! I shall briefly present the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial The committee has worked very hard over the last few days, and thank you to all the members of the committee. This is, of course, a question of continuing this shutdown of feeding movements for three weeks and under conditions where these more aggressive virus variants are spreading, and here there is a basic starting point similar to that of giving the Government the authority to define a regulation on more precise implementation of the restrictions. When the first closure decision and legislation were adopted, it was stated — if I briefly describe this design — that this approach is a rather blunt tool and, if this kind of closure is continued, this lock must be more differentiated both in terms of the type of restaurant and regionally. Such efforts, which were partly supported by the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, were also included in the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, which was then adopted by Parliament. In other words, there were statements in the previous decision which called for more precise or more sophisticated regional application and also to take account of different types of restaurant. Well, in this new situation, in which this is actually being continued, account must be taken of these statements, i.e., the assumption that, now that this is being continued, the same blunt approach is no longer justified at least on the same scale, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy politely states in its report that the government's proposal may not have reflected these positions in Parliament by the very weight it might have displayed. On the other hand, in the present situation, the precautionary principle is understood when there are new variants that are spreading feistily. However, in discussing these matters all the committee has unanimously agreed that the Government should be instructed to adopt a later regulation so that, where justified, the regional level will be further limited to this barrage of restaurants. These different types of restaurants were also discussed, but this precautionary principle is of course an important one. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also, in the meantime, relaxed or changed its position precisely because of this worsening or bad epidemic situation. We discussed whether, for example, there should be different treatment of outdoor restaurants, because epidemiologists have indicated that there is a lower risk of infection, but it is not non-existent. We wanted to give the Government the opportunity, if the situation so requires, also to categorically close down all restaurants, but, in this final proposal, we also made a small change in that direction, giving the Government more freedom in how and what kind of food stores and their facilities are closed down, that is to say, a point has been added here that the Council of State, by means of a regulation, has made more precise provisions on the kind of restaurants and their facilities which apply such a barrier. In other words, once again we sought a balance between caution and the fact that we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believe, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stressed that these measures must be specific and, where the epidemic makes it possible, it must be possible to distinguish between different regions or different types of restaurant activities in different areas. For example, we heard experts from the province of Lapland, and it became clear that it might not be meaningful in such a very large province that, if there was a cluster of infections at any point in the province, the measures would apply to the whole province — and in Lapland it might be very many hundred kilometres away. We may have another area where there are no infections, and then categorical closure may not be justified. Thus, writing as written here left the Government with some discretion as to what is appropriate. Let us trust that this will be well thought out.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u162	Tack, värderade talman! This was an excellent presentation by the chairman of the committee for both domestics, so I will save you your time in it. Unfortunately, the disease situation is still so serious that we have to continue to close down restaurants, and this is now one of the necessary measures to curb the spread of the epidemic and to push down the number of infections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u163	Honorable Madam Speaker! The chairman of the committee has already presented this report with merit. I would like to make a brief comment on the two key points which, at the time when Parliament will hopefully adopt this, will convey that strong will and, above all, the possibility for the government, then, in its own legislation and regulations, to clarify these two points, which the Constitutional Committee has already made abundantly clear for itself. On the other hand, there is this type of restaurant, the fact that we look more closely at the different restaurants that exist in this country, because their function, the working principle is also very diverse, and I think it is important that we do only what is necessary to prevent the spread of this serious disease. It is a question of jobs, it is a question of companies, it is a question of making nothing more than what is absolutely necessary in this difficult period of time limited, and, of course, also in relation to what has already been mentioned here, these compensations are essential. On the second question, the geographical scope of the restrictions: I think that we are at the heart of this now, when we talk about the possibility of limiting the territorial scope more precisely than this regional level. We have many provinces in this country. Among other things, the chairman of the committee mentioned Lapland: one third of Finland's surface area, where the differences between municipalities are tens if not hundreds of kilometres. We have many other very large provinces, where the disease situation in the provinces, within the province is very different, and we have provinces that, in size, area could contain several smaller provinces. That is why I believe that this fineness is absolutely essential for us to target this in the future, hopefully in greater detail. It is true that people can move very easily between different municipalities, but when it comes to the geographical difference between municipalities, which is a major one, this risk, which was also heard in committee, is much lower. That is why, hopefully, this fineness will come not only to this regional, regional, but also to the municipal or sub-regional level, bearing in mind, of course, the epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u164	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u165	Mr President! Indeed, this is now going to deal with the barrage of restaurants even more than three weeks, i.e. until 18.4. Today, when we discussed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, there were actually three key points that we were thinking about: firstly, this distinction between types of restaurant and the risks involved in whatever type of restaurant, secondly, this question of external space, i.e. outdoor terraces, and then this fine-tuning of the province. The good thing about this committee's report is that this fine-tuning of the province was indeed left to the discretion of the Government, just as the chairman of the committee said in his presentation. Personally, I would have taken an even clearer statement on the outside that outdoor terraces have less regulation than elsewhere. I am thinking of the coming Easter season, when there will probably be a lot of people going to such places as Lapland and other ski resorts. Perhaps it would have been better to be in controlled, organized terraces than to pack up at campfires in ski resorts very close to other people. In that sense, perhaps I would have used a little more common sense in drawing up this committee's report. But all in all, I think that most of the restaurants are quite happy that this is now three weeks rather than being opened on the basis of the principle that was presented here in Parliament last week, i.e. that the restaurants should have closed their doors at 6 p.m. and that they should have closed their doors at 5 p.m. After all, many restaurant owners said that the opening cannot be carried out profitably in that way. Against this background, we in the Assembly made proposals for statements on this committee’s report, and the first of them relates to this particular point: ‘The Commission requires that provisions be drawn up for the post-restaurant period to enable the re-emergence of nutritional movements and to ensure that different types ofnutrition movements and their risk profiles are taken into account. “ 2. Our proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires a temporary reduction from 24 % to 14 and3.Proposal for a resolution:‘The Commission requires that wine “
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u166	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u167	Mr President! First of all, I support the proposals made by Mr Kauma. Indeed, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, there has been enough to say and reflect on these issues, and this whole issue is now under discussion. A few words on this issue at this provincial level and on the finer consideration required by both Parliament, the Economic Committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For example, our report states that there is tension between the chosen regulatory solution, i.e. the government proposal and the positions of the Constitutional Committee. And in this context, when it came to these ideas that there is now some consideration of this fineness, let me read an extract from our report: ‘The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that it is essential for those regions where the characteristics of the region are: In our expert hearings there was indeed a representative of Lapland who told us that yes this kind of practice for the health authorities in the region is quite the solution. At the same time, I would remind you that this article is not a piece of Lapland, but that it means that in all the regions where these criteria are met, the Government must take them into account. For example, in many sub-regions these criteria are met. We did not have the health authorities in South Ostrobothnia in the expert consultation, but they have noted from the beginning of the week, for example, when South Ostrobothnia was in this lock for the first three weeks, that, in their opinion, a total closure in South Ostrobothnia would not have been necessary for the management of the epidemic. All the more reason for the government to consider these regulations and others, to consult the health authorities in the region. Yes, this corona must be defeated, but at the same time we must ensure that the economic wheels rotate where it is possible from an epidemic point of view, because at some point this closure and boredom will end.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u168	In this context, the statements and their support will be made at the second reading. Of course you can present the contents here, but let's face it. — And now Mr Kivisaari — Mr Kivisaari is absent. Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u169	Madam President! I should like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and its chairmen: you have done an excellent job again. I miss it back there. It's such a good crew to work with. Indeed, the President-in-Office put this very well, and I would like to stress these four points myself. The great thing is that these types of restaurants will be more closely combed, lunch restaurants or bars or, for example, student restaurants, and let's see which destinations are really needed for that shutdown. Secondly, Mr Sankelo has just told us about this section of the regional fine-tuning legislation, and that is exactly what it is. I recall here a little duubioi from the Ministry that it cannot be done, but it is a good thing to look at what is the way to do it. You'd think there'd be such a way in the big provinces. Whether it is a division of hospital districts, whether it is a division of municipalities or districts, it has been considered, but it is also a matter for the government. Then this monitoring of the necessity, which has been strongly involved here, for example, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: it is very important that this necessity be imposed, but also then that the development of its disease situation be assessed and that we try to dismantle them as soon as possible. And on the fourth point, Mr President, I see that, while this is going to be a financial disadvantage for these restaurants, this support system or compensation system, whatever it is now called, which will perhaps give them support when it is needed, for example through cost support or other means, is a sufficiently good and effective solution. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u170	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u171	Madam President! Indeed, that is what this is about when we are discussing this proposal here: unfortunately, the disease situation has not made things any easier; it is still a serious situation. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen and the committee as a whole for their good work. In a sense, there have only been difficult, unpleasant options at hand, and in this difficult situation, I think we have managed very well to draw up a good report and also to take account of the observations and requests of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for this more refined examination, for example, of this territorial scope. Like Mr Pirttilahti, I would also like to draw attention to this necessity monitoring exercise, which is to say that it is important that the situation and its development are monitored all the time, and if the disease situation in a region is no longer so bad as to be applied, then of course it is also important that it is immediately addressed and that this closure is no longer applied in such areas. However, I personally think it is important that, in the restaurant sector too, the way Mr Kauman has outlined the criteria and the guidelines on which the sector could operate in a profitable way, as if an exit strategy-like way out of this situation, in the same way that the event sector was built a few days ago. It would provide the industry with an overview and guidelines on the conditions and criteria under which activities can be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u172	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u173	Madam Speaker! I accept with my teeth that restaurants are still treated in such a generic way in these restrictive measures. I do have quite a lot of duubios to deal with all the restaurants in the same way, no matter what they are. Restaurants with tables are mainly where you go in a familiar company and, of course, with people you are already dealing with. Therefore, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs again justifies this by restricting contacts with human nutrition movements. There is a bit of an argument where there is a clear possibility of a sloping surface when, on the other hand, there are quite a few life functions that can always be suggested as having different connected contacts, or thus making such contacts. Indeed, the same applies to some terraces, where the risk of infection is clearly so much lower than in nightlife, bars. But all in all, now that these restrictions are being maintained, it would be reasonable not only to have these shared interest subsidies or grants, which have now been distributed, but also to have a little more sustainable measures to revive the restaurant sector in the long run. Such could be the permission to sell out wines or VAT reductions, and these are supported by the True Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u174	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u175	Mr President! This government proposal is now continuing the barrage of restaurants after the three-week lock. It is certainly necessary, as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its report, in this situation of disease in areas where the disease situation is very bad, as is currently the case here in the capital region. However, it must be said out loud that when a few restaurant entrepreneurs asked me last week what would happen after this three-week lock-up ended, I estimated to them when the government had not told the public that it was considering the continuation of the restrictions on restaurants, that is, the lock, that there would be a real rush to prepare such a proposal, especially when the proposal was being discussed here at the same time when we were opening restaurants with restrictions. In these matters, we would like to see better anticipation so that restaurant entrepreneurs, like other entrepreneurs, who we dealt with here, for example, in this previous proposal, namely Article 58g of the Act on Disease Control, might be able to anticipate its future activities a little better. What many here have drawn attention to is that this presentation is still ignoring the various risk profiles of restaurants. I believe that there may continue to be justification for restricting certain types of restaurants more than others. Even if we are now in Vantaa, where the country’s worst disease situation was some time ago, the fact that restaurants have been caught has contributed to the fact that the disease situation is slightly better and that the number of infections has decreased. But, of course, it is not possible to say what type of restaurants we are dealing with, probably in places where some people spend time all day sitting around and possibly drinking alcoholic beverages, so it is not just so - called restaurants. It would be very important in the future to separate these risk profiles. Mr President! As far as compensation is concerned, we are in a hurry. It should now be possible to tell both restaurants and other companies, who will very soon be more likely to suffer losses due to possible restrictions on movement, in what way they will be able to plan for their future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u176	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u177	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Hälsan framför allt. Den au restaurangstangningen som vi förlänger med tre veckor utgår långt ifrån att vi främjar att det inte sker en större smittspridning, och det är naturligtvis Jätteviktigt och bra. Jag tycker att ekonutskottet har gett ett valdigt bra bettankande kring den ox frågan och lyft fram sådana frågor som är ganska vasentliga med tanke på framtiden kring det ox. Vi Talade om restauranttyper, regionala skillnader och just det rai att det är nödvändigt att göra de raus restrictionnerna. Senast vi diskuterade det ox var minister Haatainen bull och rain att statsrådet varje vecka bedömer situationen i de oika regionerna. Här är förstås ekonomin också viktig med tanke på att hålla hjulen i rullning,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u180	Mr President! When the representatives of the government parties here rightly wanted an exit strategy, I would really encourage you to convey this message to the government. I believe that if we had some kind of prospect, albeit uncertain, of when vaccinations will start to bite, what schedule and what criteria can be used to dismantle the restrictions, it would create hope and prospects for better compliance with the restrictions. The fact that there is no prospect of the future leads to despair and gloomy thoughts, and we already have a sufficiently large medical debt and mental health problems at the moment. I very much hope that this proposal will now be taken up by the government. Mr President! Attention is still being paid to the various possible forms of compensation and planning of operations. Now that, with possible restrictions on movement, a large number of companies are again faced with a situation where there are no customers in practice, it would be perfectly justified to move back to the fast-track lay-off procedure and, on the other hand, to the world of reduction of the roughness we were in last year. At the time, Minister Hatainen argued in connection with this proposal that they could not be made only for the restaurant sector, but if there were again a large number of these companies in different sectors, this could be entirely justified. On the other hand, I would also encourage the government once again to consider ways of supporting this sector through its activities, such as allowing restaurants to sell out alcohol products that are strong in wine. It would help a little, for a small part, these restaurants, which are now going to be closed for a reasonable period of time, and if restrictions on movement come, then, of course, the restaurants will remain closed in that case. This would be a form of support that would not actually require money, but would enable people to choose whether to buy their wine at Alko or at the restaurant when buying food there. Mr President! I understand that there is broad support for this measure in this Chamber — in practice, perhaps only one party opposes it. Now that we are in an exceptional situation, would this not be the very place where we could now try this action for a short time? I don't think that would bring us to ruin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u181	Congressman Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u182	Mr President! It is a pleasure to hear that the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy seems to receive positive comments here. It was a joint effort, with everyone stretching out and doing good work together. However, when we praise ourselves here, we must remember that during this work we received extremely serious and tragic messages from restaurant entrepreneurs struggling with difficulties. Let us remember that, and make it one of the key messages of this debate out of it, that we have heard it, and I believe that its government has also heard it. After all, many types of business subsidies and restaurant subsidies have already been laid down, but they are all such that they have not been able to avoid situations in which some of the best-doing restaurant entrepreneurs are in a real crisis that is difficult to get out of. Let us send out a strong message from this Chamber, and also from elsewhere, that we are aware of this, and let us try to act to ensure that, when we emerge from this terrible epidemic, we, of course, in all sectors, but especially in the restaurant industry, which has suffered disproportionately, still have a viable and good restaurant industry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u183	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-25-ps-31.u184	Mr President! Representative Vartiainen certainly put into words the feelings we all share widely. We know that this is a very serious situation, and many restaurant entrepreneurs and also restaurant workers have been in an extremely difficult situation for almost a year now, suffering from this pandemic, and it is truly regrettable that we have to continue with this blockade. I know that we all think that we are already looking forward to a much better time. Let us hope that we do not have to continue with this kind of closure so many times.
