ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 25/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u2	Thank you, Mr President. People are now being increasingly pressured to take experimental corona vaccines. They even try to fool people with free buckets and gift cards. Even Parliament's people have been urged to take a full series of vaccines, although there is no clear information on the safety of these vaccines and even their manufacturers take responsibility for them. I have made an urgent initiative for the Staff Committee to stop vaccination and investigate these vaccines. We must not rely on the unilateral and contradictory information of the THL. Not all experts agree with the seriousness of the corona or the safety of vaccines, but here, obviously, they want only one principle of truth to be respected. If it were a real death disease that would wipe out half the population, the drastic measures would have been justified, but in the light of the figures that have been achieved, the interest rate has been defined as far too serious a disease, and the measures have been totally overkilling and unbelievable. The whole corona pass is a political propaganda operation aimed at subjugating the people to a major social change that no one would give permission to directly ask. Regrettably, our government is under the influence of the outside world and the way that it is controlled. The whole fake pandemic has been maintained in order to pursue highly questionable political goals and the interests of Finland have been deliberately forgotten. Mr President! Our Constitution prohibits the placing of people in an unequal position. The Non-Discrimination Act prohibits discrimination. If the corona passport is accepted, it violates the above-mentioned laws. It would therefore be a question of discrimination against non-vaccinated people and of pushing them outside society. Apparently, the corona pass is to be made a permanent instrument of human control that already resembles the sign of the beast of Revelation. If that happens, you can't buy or sell anything without a passport or without a passport, and you wouldn't be able to keep a bank account without a passport.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u5	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u6	Madam President! The first thing to say is that I am surprised that there is no presentation of the report at all today, even though it is such a large and wide-ranging issue. Where's Chairman Salmon? Madam President! I suggest that the basis for this discussion is a bill in line with the protest of the Finns of Peru. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the government proposal before us is not timely and necessary with regard to the regulation of the corona passport. In addition, the proposed regulation raises a number of fundamental rights and practical implementation problems. For this reason, the part of the proposal relating to the national use of the EU interest certificate should be rejected. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that the proposal raises some unclear questions as regards the realisation of equality between citizens. The introduction of a Korona Pass can at worst create a false sense of security. The person who has received the vaccine may also be infected or infected and there is no definite indication of how long the vaccine will last. In addition, people who have not been able to take the vaccine due to their illness are at risk of being treated unequally on the basis of their health. This proposal is also accompanied by a change in the provisions of the Act on communicable diseases, which is provisionally in force, and in particular by the continuation of the so-called second test. The committee's expert hearings pointed out that the second test of 72 to 120 hours of entry required in accordance with Section 16 after arriving in Finland in certain circumstances would no longer be necessary in the current epidemic situation. As justification for this, it was pointed out, inter alia, that the effectiveness of the entry test described in the explanatory memorandum of the Government proposal applies in a situation where the population does not yet have extensive immunological protection against covid-19. The justification would therefore be obsolete after the increase in the vaccination coverage of the population. The Group of the European People's Party believes that there is no need for a second test to be required and that the section should be deleted, so we object to the deletion of this second paragraph of the test as well as the deletion of the section on the corona pass. Although Finland is approaching a situation where all those who wish to have been vaccinated twice, there are persons who cannot take vaccination for health reasons. There are also people who have experienced serious symptoms from the first vaccination and because of the side effects the doctor has recommended them not to take the second vaccine. In a similar way, it is difficult to verify non-vaccination because it is difficult to determine which diseases prevent vaccination. This proposed regulation is also problematic for people who are unable to access the Kanta service and print out a certificate from it. In any case, self-using of the service requires strong authentication either with online banking credentials, an electronic ID card or a mobile certificate as well as owning either a computer and a printer or a smartphone to present a certificate. This possibility is not available to nearly all citizens. The Group of the Party of European Socialists sees a problematic situation where, as vaccination coverage approaches the target level, the government is planning to introduce new restrictions instead of dismantling existing restrictions. On the basis of the above considerations, the Group of the Greens' Committee proposes that the proportion of the government's current vaccination coverage of the national use of the EU corona certificate is no longer timely or necessary and should not be regulated. In the protest of the Finns of Peru, the corona pass boxes and the second test sections are deleted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u7	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u8	Mr President! First of all, I support all these proposals made by Mr Juvonen. A little about this in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: I must say quite frankly, what a farce. As far as this request for a second test is concerned, the preparatory debate had already reached the conclusion that it was not required, and the committee was unanimous on it, until today a different government party marched here and this decision was turned upside down. So we are still calling for the second corona test from these immigrants. I will read to you what a Lappish tourist entrepreneur commented on this: ‘We do not have laboratories in Inari, so that the PCR test will not be completed before the tourist holiday has ended. Who's watching that test? If the test doesn't work, does it get some kind of sanction? And if anyone has a corona, at whose expense will he stay and where? Do you think these things have been considered?” I can tell him it's definitely not been thought about. What surprised me, of course, is that the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon, who is a member of the Parliament of Lapland and who, in his interests, should have the interests of lobbying and defending tourism entrepreneurs in Lapland on this issue, abstained from voting.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u11	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u12	Madam President! The Finns are not in favour of a corona pass. I support the proposals made by Mrs Juvose. The introduction of a Koronapass may at worst create a false sense of safety, as the person who received the vaccine may also be infected or infected and there is no definite indication of how long the vaccine will last, and many other things are quite unclear here. That is what we have dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I really am surprised that the chairman of the committee is not here and that the ministers who know are not here when it comes to such a big issue as the corona passport. This is quite confusing, of course. This is a very confusing performance. No one really knows the cost of this. There is no information on what costs this will do, how this will proceed. It's a bit of a mess, so it's a huge mess. In other legislative proposals I have not actually met as much confusion as this is, so that this cannot be supported. The Finns are not in favour of a corona pass.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u14	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u15	Madam President! The Finnish Government's proposal HE 131/2021 to amend and temporarily amend the Act on communicable diseases is under discussion. People who are currently not vaccinated and vaccinated may come to Finland. We have read from some sources that the person who has been vaccinated infects the corona equally and can become ill with the corona. How do you justify testing the unvaccinated on the ground but not testing the vaccinated? Madam President! In my speech, I will use the letter sent by a citizen to all of us in the House. This is like Pandora's Box: we don't know where this leads if we open this kind of corona pass. With this speech I will make sure that you are all aware that such a letter has come — you should be very familiar with it. In my opinion, it was properly written. ‘The sections of the Government’s proposal on the The introduction of a certificate of interest and associated means would put people in a different position according to their health status and the health care measures they use or do not use. The government’s proposal therefore discriminates between those who refuse or refrain from the so-called corona vaccine.” I am telling you this because this letter is in line with my own opinion and my own opinion on this situation. I don't know if this is... That is my view of the matter, and I would like to make it clear to you. ‘The Chapter of the Constitution2 deals with fundamental rights, andthe Article6 regulates ‘People are equal before the law. No one shall be placed in a different position on grounds of sex, age, origin, language, religion, belief, opinion, health, disability or any other reason relating to a person without an acceptable basis.” ‘Everyone has the right to life and personal liberty, integrity and security.’ This is laid down in paragraph 7 of Chapter 2 of the Finnish Constitution. Articles 1, 2, 3, 7 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights deal with the rights of equality, equality, freedom and personal security of individuals. Finland is committed to the Declaration and to the UNESCO Agreement.’ And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth listening to: ‘The European Council’s Parliamentary Assembly,in its resolution,convinced that citizens will be aware that such rates of interest are voluntary and that political,social or other pressure will impose an action if they do not wish to take a vaccine No one shall be discriminated against for not taking the so-called corona vaccine. Everyone has the freedom and self-determination to obtain or refrain from obtaining a so-called corona vaccine. The so-called corona vaccine is a voluntary health care measure. People have the right and freedom to decide personally on their own health measures and treatment methods.” ‘Various Members of Parliament,the legislator cannot establish a voluntary act on the basis of a different status for people and Refusal to take a voluntary action is not an acceptable basis for violating equality and putting it in a different position. Paragraph 8 of Chapter 3 of the Non-Discrimination Act provides as follows: ‘ No one shall be discriminated against on the grounds of age, origin, nationality, language, religion, belief, opinion, political activity, trade union activity, family relations, health status, disability, sexual orientation or any other reason relating to a person. Discrimination is prohibited regardless of whether it is based on the facts or assumptions of a person or on someone else. In addition to direct and indirect discrimination, the discrimination referred to in this Act shall include harassment, the refusal of reasonable adjustments and the instruction or order to discriminate.” Mr President! ‘Indirect discrimination under the Non-Discrimination Act is a The provisions in the Government's proposal on the introduction of a corona certificate provide a means of direct and indirect discrimination for society's operators. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal is a gross act of indirect discrimination which allows and directs and encourages both direct and indirect discrimination." Then, ladies and gentlemen, this citizen has written the following about criminal law — even this one I see as having some responsibility here: ‘The law on criminal law3 deals with the conditions of criminal liability. Chapter 3 provides for the criminality of non-compliance: ‘Although he has had a special legal obligation to prevent the birth of the consequences’, such an act may be As legislator, a representative of Parliament is obliged to prevent the drawing up and adoption of laws which actively enable and encourage a crime, in this case a crime of discrimination. A legislator who makes it possible for social actors to commit a crime of discrimination through the adoption of a law that makes it possible may end up facing a challenge of providing assistance in relation to a crime of discrimination.” Madam President! Let's not open this Pandora's box. Let's drop this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u16	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u17	Mr President! Is there any evidence from any country that the passport was actually useful as a means of controlling the epidemic? According to the government's own proposal, there is no evidence yet. On the other hand, there is evidence from many countries that it causes unrest and discontent. This has happened in France, Italy and Australia, for example. Unfortunately, when it comes to implementation, the Korona Pass is restrictive, unequal and social polarising. It withdraws the basis for voluntary and vaccination of coronas and excludes those who are unable to take a full series of vaccines, even if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u22	Congressman Peltokangas continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I'm the one who's watching the ministry. There is an issue in the proceedings that affects the entire Finnish people and is very serious. I think it's close to whether we're in the spirit of the Constitution or not. There are many opinions about it, but I personally see that this kind of corona pass mess creates inequality and I cannot therefore support it. There have also been such things that we have not been sure whether the vaccines are such as to prevent the person from still being infected. For this reason, such a passport would apparently only show that a person has been injected with a needle. I don't see any point in moving on with a pattern like this. When I look at the Council of Ministers, I say that there is no one there, nor has the chairman of the committee bothered to show up on such an important issue. I am very much in favour of Mr Niiko's motion to table, and I am obliged that in a matter of such serious concern to the people, ministers should be present, at least of some interest to them. And you'd think you'd be interested in government parties, too. As I look at this empty hall here on the left — thanks to you, the representatives who are here — it does come to mind that it has been thought in advance that this is the way it is going and the way it is going. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Mr President! When making decisions like this, you have to be very careful. There has been such contradictory information and, as the representatives here have rightly pointed out, the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also been one box of herring, which means that it has not made sense. So why do you drive a passport like this? I have not yet received an answer because it makes no sense. So if we get the answer from a professional that this vaccine is 100% effective, then we can feel that it is doing something about it. But even then, in this situation, it is unhelpably too late.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u24	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u26	Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u27	Mr President! I support this motion by Mrs Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u28	I am given advice from the officials that these have been put forward as a counter-proposal to what had previously been done by the representatives of Niikko and Peltokangas, but I would like to repeat this once again: that is to say, it is clear that Mr Niikko, supported by Mr Peltokangas, has proposed that the matter should be put on the table at the plenary session on 13 October 2021, so that the matter should be left on the table. Since then, Mr Lindén has suggested that the matter should be left on the table for the next plenary session today, and Mr Nurminen has supported his proposal. I note that the summary can be adopted unanimously and that the debate on the table is closed. The proceedings and the debate shall be suspended and this session shall be resumed in 20 minutes' time for the vote on these table-table proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-114.u29	The sitting adjourned at 6.50 p.m. and the second item in the order of business will now be resumed. With the support of Mauri Peltokangas, Mika Niikko has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 October 2021. Aki Lindén, supported by Ilmari Nurminen, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the next plenary session today.
