ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u1	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Education, Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. Following a presentation by Mr Skinner, Minister for Development and Foreign Trade, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order I am considering, I will give you one or two minutes of reply. A maximum of 2.5 hours will be reserved for the referral debate in the first phase. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's go talk to him. — Minister Skinner, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u2	Mr President! Today, for the first time, we are discussing the coherence and effectiveness of Finland’s development policy over the electoral period. The Government Programme required a report, but the reason and need are deeper: How can we get rid of the sudden changes in Finnish development cooperation? What are the principles that parliamentary parties and Finnish society can support as widely as possible? Only long-term work will bring lasting development results, and that is what we all call for in this Chamber. The report strengthens the principles, values and objectives guiding Finnish development policy and cooperation. The report has been prepared by a parliamentary monitoring group representing all the parliamentary parties, which I would like to thank warmly. I appreciate your contribution to the high ground. In the preparation of the report, the Development Policy Committee has also been consulted and a wide range of stakeholders, to whom I would also like to express my thanks. The inclusion of a widely shared common view in this report is an important achievement. The events of recent weeks in Afghanistan have underlined that development policy is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Development and humanitarian aid play an important role in the choice of means for international cooperation for a more stable and secure world. Development policy influences cross-border phenomena in which countries are forced to cooperate. It is a track that will enable countries to find solutions to common problems even when the cross-pressure of the major powers is blocking the channels of traditional security policy. Finland must be active and offer solutions to questions that affect us too. Staying outside would be detrimental to our foreign policy position, our international relations, trade and exports. It's easy to stay alone. It's harder to build together. The rule-based multilateral international system is vital for Finland. As an active actor in foreign and development policy, we are making this system more effective. Development policy and funding will also contribute to the values and systems that will prevail in the future and to what economic and technological competition will lead. Mr President! Development policy is based on the adoption by the UN of Agenda 2030, with the aim of eradicating poverty and reducing inequalities. The completion of the report coincides with a time when, for the first time in 30 years, poverty in the world has increased. Corona pandemic has increased socio-economic problems and exacerbated the debt crisis in developing countries. Conflicts have increased. All of this has global implications, including for Finland. The report states that development cooperation will continue to focus on Finland's long-term strengths. The role and rights of women and girls remain a clear priority. Overvaluation is an important reform, as it takes decades of hard work to achieve results, such as in education, health care or the sustainable use of natural resources. Finland's development cooperation specifically strengthens forest management in Tanzania, land management in Ethiopia, sustainable tax systems together with African tax administrations, water management solutions in Nepal and the education sector in Mozambique. For all of these, the goal of systemic change and the strong commitment of the partner country are common. After all, the effects of development policy are often the same things that are discussed here in Parliament in the development of Finnish society. The clinic and digital taxation are examples that we as a nation have built and which can now play a major role in achieving the objectives of sustainable development. In addition to the long-term perspective, the report outlines the reforms of development policy. The growing role of innovation and digitalisation as drivers of development is central. We also strengthen Finland's position as an international innovation hub. A concrete milestone will be reached when Unicef transfers part of his innovation work from New York to Finland in early autumn. We aim for a stronger participation of Finnish society's experts in development policy, including private sector actors and research and education institutions. Non-governmental organisations will continue to be important partners who, through their work, will at the same time contribute to the capacity of free civil society in developing countries. Without partnerships, the work will be a point. This is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the University of Helsinki have set up a competence centre for development cooperation in the field of education in connection with the Finnish National Agency for Justice and Education this autumn. We strengthen the combined impact of trade and development, by supporting the success of Finnish expertise and companies in the world. We must drive down the rest of the silos in order to achieve trade and development synergies and involve the private sector in achieving results. Climate policy, sustainable development and human rights challenges need solutions. Finland has them. We are known for both technological and social innovation, and our focus on solutions is appreciated. Through investment support for developing countries, a system-level climate solution has been launched in Ethiopia to exploit Finnish meteorology technology and expertise in preparedness and adaptation to extreme weather phenomena and the effects of climate change. Finnish excellence is therefore at the forefront. Mr President! I will return with a few words to Afghanistan, where Finland's diplomatic presence and development cooperation are currently suspended as humanitarian aid continues. However, the results of the last 20 years of development cooperation will not go to waste. Thanks to the long-term support of Finland and the international community, there are now more educated, healthier and more aware citizens in Afghanistan than if we had not done development cooperation in that country. This capacity is not wasted and is also reflected in the debate in Afghanistan: there has been a demand for girls to continue schooling and attention has been paid to media conditions. It has been asked whether there were any long-term developmental effects. Yes. For example, literacy is a sustainable development result that cannot be taken away from anyone. In 1979, about 18 per cent of Afghans over the age of 15 were literate. That is now 43% and 65% in the 15 to 24 age group. Finland’s development cooperation is increasingly carried out in very difficult and risky environments, i.e. where the need for assistance is greatest. Action in fragile countries always involves risks, and we plan to help minimise risks and help to maximise the benefits and benefits of assistance. Development cooperation is a means, not an end. In the long term, our goal is to make ourselves redundant and to bring developing countries to their own stable path. Unfortunately, this time is not yet at hand in many countries, but it has largely taken place in Vietnam, for example, which was a pleasure for me to meet with the President of Parliament on Saturday. We discussed trade and tourism, not development cooperation anymore. Finland’s development cooperation will be effective and deliver results, which will be the subject of a comprehensive report to Parliament again next year. Performance guidance, risk and quality management and administrative procedures have been actively developed over the last few years, and, for example, in the follow-up to the OECD peer review, we received very positive assessments of these areas this spring. The need for development cooperation funding remains high. The report outlines that we are aiming for a level,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u3	Thank you. — Then we will go to group speeches. When the group talks have been held, let's go to the debat. — Mr Al-Taee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, good start of the autumn season! — The Government's report on the principles of development policy was published at the end of May. Since then, things have happened in the world, and here I am referring to Afghanistan. We have seen how the situation changed very quickly as the Western Alliance forces left the country. We don't know what's gonna happen yet. We'll see. What happened in Afghanistan reminds me of my own experiences. I have once come to Finland as a quota refugee — the road was not easy. I had to live in a refugee camp for years, and I've seen the rough side of it. In my experience, I know what it is when a country is no longer safe and a home has to be left behind. I also know what a welfare state is and I know how to appreciate it. In an interdependent world, Finland is not in a vacuum where world developments and events do not affect us. Development cooperation can contribute to the development of societies in order to make the home region a stable and human place to live, which offers life opportunities and is equal, and which respects human rights and the rule of law, so as not to have to leave home. Mr President! Development cooperation is long-term work; change does not happen overnight. In view of the predictability and continuity of Finland's development policy, it is important that a report on the principles of development policy has been drawn up and that a parliamentary monitoring group covering parliamentary parties was involved in the preparation of the report. Development policy is part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Its aim is to eradicate poverty and reduce inequalities. The focus is on the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development for all countries. Good results in development cooperation will be achieved through partnerships, the public-private sector and civil society. The financing needs of development cooperation are considerable and are further enhanced by a pandemic that has brought a setback to the achievement of the SDGs. Different forms of funding must be used. In addition to grants, Finland's financing of development cooperation includes loan and investment funding. It is clear that companies supported by public development aid must act in accordance with the principles of social responsibility. Mr President! Afghanistan has shown that the country of destination must have responsibility and ownership for development. If this is not the case, the foundation of society is weak. The role of development cooperation must be to support and strengthen the resources and responsibilities of developing countries. Development cooperation must be impressive and results must be monitored. It is important that, once in the parliamentary term, Parliament is given a report on the results of development policy. Effectiveness means that development cooperation will bring about a positive change. Development cooperation is carried out for the sake of the country's own development. It is, as Minister Skinner said, a tool, it is not an end. Mr President! The focus of Finland’s foreign and security policy is to strengthen the multilateral rule-based international system. At the UN, Finland is committed to raising the level of development funding to 0.7% of GDP. Finland has reached this goal from the 1970s once in the early 1990s, in the years of recession. Since then, it has not been systematically achieved. The report sets out the target year 2030. The report does not contain a road map to achieve this objective, which the report can be criticised for. However, from another point of view, the target year has been set in the report, and the next step is the future joint effort on the Government-Opposition axis, since the achievement of the target requires a longer-term commitment over the government periods. The Social Democratic Parliament Group therefore encourages parliamentary parties to work together to draw up a road map, thanks the Government for its extensive report and wishes for a diverse and constructive debate in the committee reading of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u5	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Finland paid Afghanistan the second largest amount of its development cooperation funds last year, totalling EUR 24.5 million. After the West left Afghanistan, the country fell into the hands of the Taliban in a few days. Pumping the tax resources of Finnish citizens and citizens of other countries had not led to a permanent change. Instead, the Islamic Islamic Sharia Law returned to power and the girls began to burn their school certificates. All the money and goods we have given to the country are now at Taliban's disposal. If this seems inconceivable, remember that Finland provided development aid to Nicaragua for over 30 years and eventually had to cut off the cash taps altogether, as corruption was only increasing in the country. How will Finland help the world in the future? That is what we are discussing today, for we are faced with a paper that was intended to direct Finland's development policy over the period of the elections, i.e. what principles will be used in the future, regardless of who will become the Prime Minister's Party and who will become the other government's aid parties in the next elections. It's a beautiful idea, but you can throw this out right in the trash. Despite its name, the policies found in this paper are not over-election, for we Finns do not stand behind them. If we rise to the government after the next elections, we cannot be told that, in line with the report on development policy, EUR 600 million will now be increased every year until 2030. — We never committed ourselves to such a goal. It is absolutely impossible to accept even more money being spent on development aid when the current money is already being used to do what happens and, at the same time, our aid resources are being burned up by maintaining the current ‘lotters’ reception centre network. Finland could help one humanitarian immigrant in our country who enjoys full maintenance in more than 30 people in need of humanitarian assistance in UN refugee camps. The programme of the Finns Party for 2019 states: ‘Our primary objective in immigration policyis to end immigration forhumanitarian reasons and to shift it to a place of Similarly, the development aid system must be made more effective and reformed to support this objective." Even during this debate, I am sure many Members will be singing the tired hymn why you are not prepared to increase development funds if you want to help on the ground. If logical reasoning works, you can easily understand the matter. As we have said, if humanitarian immigration to Finland is agreed to stop, we are prepared to invest more where help and development are really needed. At present, humanitarian immigration costs Finland several billions a year. Money doesn't grow in a tree, huh? If you other parties first decide to spend several billion euros every year taking a few thousand lucky ones from the Swedish border and on direct flights to Finland to live, then it is not appropriate to complain that more money should be made available to help on the ground, which would be a great deal more aid. [Heckling] We Finns also want improvements in the targeting and control of development aid. Mozambique capital on the south-east coast of Africa Two million people live in Maputo. For Finland, as a guardian of its five million citizens, Maputo would be a huge development project, let alone six times the size of Finland, Mozambique. As incredible as it sounds, However, Finland, as a small country, is engaged in bilateral development cooperation in three continents and 16 countries. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u7	Thank you. — Mr Sirén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u8	Mr President! When we travel the world, we always get to be proud of Finland. We have a great development story to tell: how Finland rose from a poor developing country to one of the most stable, free, safe and happy countries in the world in just a few generations. Our strengths have always been equality, education and cooperation. When Finland needed help, it was also provided. Now we need that help somewhere else. Development challenges and global problems are huge and, in many places, sustainable development has even taken a step backwards with the pandemic. We live in a mutually dependent world in which the situation in developing countries affects us all. Therefore, the promotion of sustainable development will also benefit all of us. This is understood by Finns: 80% of Finns consider development cooperation to be very or rather important. Mr President! Development policy must be effective and its effectiveness must continue to be closely monitored. That is why it is important that the principles and objectives are outlined in this report for the post-election period. Development policy must aim to enable each country to finance its own development and well-being in the future. The aim must be to ensure that people do not have to move and live in their own region. Europe is currently facing increasing migratory pressure from developing countries. Effective and effective development policies can influence the root causes behind migration. The main objective of Finland's development policy must be based on Finland's own strengths: equality, education and cooperation. When resources are limited, it must be possible to prioritise. The Coalition therefore considers it justified that the development policy should continue in the last term on the basis of the priorities outlined under the leadership of the Soviet Development Ministers: the rights of girls and women, education, sustainable economic development, the development of democracy and the rule of law, and ecological sustainability. Promoting the rights of girls and women must be at the forefront of Finland's development policy. Finland has an important role to play in highlighting the importance of sexual and reproductive rights in particular. Strengthening the rights of girls and women and education opportunities are key to challenges such as population growth. It is not enough for children in developing countries to have access to school. The content of education must support learning. That is what Finland has to offer. The content of the education priority could be further strengthened in the report. It is important that the economic development of developing countries is also included in the top priorities of Finland’s development policy. In African countries in particular, millions more young people enter the labour market every year than there are jobs available. In particular, the Coalition Party has highlighted the role of the private sector in creating sustainable growth and creating jobs. As stated in the report, sustainable development is best achieved in democratic countries. Recent events in Afghanistan at the latest show that it is not possible to export democracy by military means. Instead, we must support the development of democracy and the rule of law in developing countries. The opportunities, clean solutions and innovations of the circular economy are central to the fight against climate change, adaptation and sustainable use of natural resources. In this respect, too, Finland and Finnish operators have much to offer. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party welcomes the report that Finnish companies' opportunities to participate in solving development projects in the market are promoted and supported. Mr President! Finland is committed to raising development funding to 0.7% of gross national income. However, we are a long way from that goal, unlike the other Nordic countries. To achieve this goal requires a long-term commitment and a credible plan. This is what the government lacks. Despite the work already undertaken last season, the Marin Government has not managed to draw a path towards the goal, on the contrary. In the Government budget proposal next year, the share of development funding in GDP will fall below 0.5%. In addition, the government has decided to cut back on development cooperation
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u9	Thank you. - Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u10	Mr President! Development policy under the auspices of the UN plays a key role in promoting peace, stability and security. Access to clean food, water and energy is a prerequisite for sustainable development. The Centre considers the report to be a welcome step forward, since it is the first time that Finland's development policy has been guided by the rule of law in the run-up to the elections. This prevents the dispersal of limited resources and strengthens effectiveness. Strengthening the effectiveness of development cooperation is an important priority. According to estimates, the vast majority of individual programmes are currently achieving the results set for them — despite a colorful debate. However, work needs to be continued to improve the results and improve the evaluation. Development policy is part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Similarly, foreign, security and trade policies are important in promoting development policy. Mr President! Afghanistan stopped us all. For two decades, significant progress was made in Afghanistan in terms of social development, improving the position of women and girls and eliminating terrorism and extremism, but the return of the Taliban regime is losing the results of long-term work. Without the responsibility of the international community, Afghanistan is threatening to become a platform for terrorism, drug trafficking and uncontrolled migration. In view of Afghanistan and many other similar examples, a long-term development policy is indeed needed. In order to deal with long-term crises, coordination of peace-building, humanitarian aid and development cooperation is needed. In accordance with the UN Security Council Resolution on Women, Peace and Security, Finland promotes women's participation in peace negotiations, with emphasis on safeguarding women's and girls' rights. Sustainable peace cannot be built on structures that maintain inequality. The best help is a permanent change. Development cooperation should therefore focus on supporting the governance and structures of the target countries in the pursuit of lasting change. The lack of a report is that it does not align itself with the roadmap agreed in the Government Programme to raise development cooperation funding to 0.7% of GDP. The Centre considers it particularly important that funding can also be described realistically, even if it requires a sufficiently long-term plan. Finland’s development cooperation contributes to the root causes of migration in order to reduce the number of areas in the world from which people are forced to start. Mr President! The Centre stresses the fundamentals of development policy. These include food and water security, renewable energy, strengthening the role and funding of the private sector, creating sustainable jobs and training. The training was re-emerged under the leadership of the Centre to the top priorities of the report. High-quality and accessible education is a critical step towards equal employment, and this value is widely shared by parliament. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude] The education of girls and women is not enough; boys also need to have skills. In particular, vocational education and training is essential for the achievement of boys' educational objectives. The exclusion of boys and young men is a threat in conflict areas where exclusion can drive young people into radicalisation, crime or even terrorism. The school also teaches about sexual health. The central parliamentary group sees it as important that afforestation expertise is also highlighted in the report. Knowledge of the sector is at a high level in Finland. Desertification is one of the main natural phenomena that weaken housing conditions and needs to be addressed through effective afforestation. Food security must be raised to the forefront of Finland's development policy. Adequate food security is a human right. Much still needs to be done to achieve food security, with hundreds of millions of people still suffering from malnutrition. Finland must take the role of promoter of global food security. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u11	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u12	Mr President! There are more refugees in the world than ever. Over 44,000 people have to leave their homes every day. The problems caused by climate change and the loss of nature in living conditions are becoming increasingly acute if emissions reductions and adaptation measures are not soon addressed everywhere. For the first time since the beginning of the 1990s, it has led to a decline in human development. More than 400 million children have been prevented from attending school altogether. We are discussing an extremely timely and important report on Finland's long-term, over-election-long-term efforts to address these challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u13	Mr President! What unites us Finns and citizens of developing countries? It would be easier to ask: what does not connect? The climate crisis, pandemics, world trade and migration bind us closer together than ever before. In addition to human rights, we share a planet whose ecological sustainability we are all dependent on. It is both our responsibility and our interest to work together towards a future in which everyone, not just a few, has the opportunity to live and be well. This development policy report is historic in its seniority. Development policy must be implemented on a long-term basis, without the need for policies and funding. There's a lot to thank for the report. Finland’s development policy is outlined through an approach combining security, humanitarian aid and development cooperation. It is important for the Left Alliance that the central role of civil society is strongly recognised. The importance of fair taxation is also emphasised. This is the first time that education has been taken up as a whole. Koronapandemia has increased the inequality of learning as the schooling of hundreds of millions of children has been compromised by corona. It is now particularly important to support vulnerable children and young people, and Finland has a lot to offer in the field of education. Investing in education will also improve the position of girls and women. Promoting gender equality and sexual rights is increasingly important in a time when they are being attacked. Finland aims to spend 0.7% of its GDP on development cooperation. However, even in the Government Programme, the road map on how Finland will achieve this target in concrete terms by 2030 was missing out on this report. This road map should be drawn up as soon as possible. It is also important that: Finland emphasises cooperation with the most vulnerable countries. The climate crisis is one of the most pressing development problems. Floods, droughts, and fires on the ground force many to leave their homes and livelihoods. It is difficult to make a living, and a secure home may change into a troubled or even dangerous area. The rich industrialised countries have produced the majority of greenhouse gas emissions, yet the most severe consequences will have to be borne by the people of the global south. Climate justice is needed. I welcome the decision of the Budget Committee to develop international climate finance in Finland. Finland will draw up a plan for this by the end of this year. I think that the report and the budget line are now complementary. In addition to climate work, halting the loss of nature is crucial to achieving development goals. In addition to domestic work, Finland can support the protection of biodiversity in developing countries. Fortunately, maintaining biodiversity is now one of the main objectives of Finland’s development policy. Mr President! Development funding is increasingly being directed towards the private sector. This is not a problem-free situation. Strengthening civil society and the public sector in the global south is important and the main focus of funding should not be placed on companies. Development cooperation in the private sector needs better supervision, transparency and impact assessment. The report must be accompanied by clear development objectives for the private sector and roles and responsibilities for the various actors. It must be ensured that private sector funding is also allocated to the least developed countries. What is even more important than a responsible development policy is that we are consistent in all our policies — that we do not fund with one hand and that we do not condone the conditions for the development of the global South with the other. We in the Left Alliance see that the conditions of world trade need reform, the opening of corona vaccine patents, the eradication of tax havens, the full responsibility of fossil-rich countries for climate action and the provision of assistance to those seeking security across borders. This is how we build a world that is fair to everyone, not just a few.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u14	Thank you. — Mr Biaudet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u15	Irade the Talman! Utvecklingspolitiken är en oskiljaktig del av Finlands utrikes- och säkerhetspolitik, och det är starka skrivningar som finns i den utvecklingspolitiska redogörelsen för de komande valperioderna. Det är en viktig redogörelse. Finlands utvecklingspolitik bygger på internationalella överenskommelser, men i högsta grad också på en finländsk värdegrund. Utrikespolitiken utgår från de mänskliga rättigheterna, democracy och rättsstaten, inclusive lustabehandling, Jämstaldhet, yttrandefrihet och ett fritt civilt samhalle.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u16	Mr President! Finland is building sustainable and effective development cooperation. Finnish support for development cooperation is strong. Despite the pandemic, 78 per cent of Finns estimated last year that development cooperation is very or rather important. This is about our value base. Finns have hearts and we see our role as bearers of global responsibility. That is what we in the Christian Democratic Parliament are pleased about. After the pandemic, hunger has increased in the world, and many have fallen out of school and been exploited. Help is needed. This report has been prepared by a parliamentary working party and many people expected a road map from the working group to finally raise development funding to 0.7% of gross national income. The working group found consensus on the road map, except for one party. However, in the last few metres, the Government itself watered down the work by deleating the objective of the road map from the level of funding. Such a procedure detracts from the importance of parliamentary working groups. However, this was not the first time that the government withdrew from the consensus found by the parliamentary working party. Either we have different political parties in the government than we do here in Parliament, or we are consciously driving two wheels and disparaging the work of parliamentary groups. That is what we hope for. At the same time, regardless of the party, we thank all the representatives with whom we have been able to cooperate well in preparing this report. President! Despite this criticism, the report is quite good in other respects. Finland has strong priorities in development policy, and the report rightly stresses the importance of long-term development policy. The development of fragile communities is slow, and that is why commitment, predictability and reliability are needed. In recent years, Finland's development policy has increased investment activity, the so-called white collar development cooperation. There is a place for the private sector and business, but it cannot replace other forms of development cooperation. Since the dramatic development cooperation cuts in 2015, total funding has now been increased, but the funding of NGOs has not increased in the same proportion. This was also noted by the OECD in its review of the state of Finnish civil society in the summer. Many Christian and other non-governmental organisations have decades of experience in development cooperation and therefore special know-how and long-term partnerships in developing countries. This capital is worth taking advantage of in Finland. Through their local partners, organisations have the trust and access of communities to the grassroots level. The organisations should therefore be seen as strategic instruments for Finnish development cooperation through which we can effectively and reliably channel support. Our parliamentary group is pleased that a strong support was found in the working group for the registration of increased funding for organisations, and we trust that the government is also committed to this financing decision. On the other hand, we must constantly assess the way in which development cooperation is carried out and ensure that it is appropriate. That is what Afghanistan is so much reminding us of. Democracy is a difficult export product if civil society is weak. Against that background too, the work of NGOs at grassroots level is central. Finally, Mr President, there has also been a disagreement here about the future of development cooperation. We won't win anything by putting the underprivileged Finns against the poor in the world. We must work to improve the quality of life for both of us by various means. As long as we look only at our own lives, we will always find something that is missing and what we need more before we can help others. Sometimes it is good to turn your eyes away and open your eyes. We Finns live together in the most blessed societies in the world, and we have a moral responsibility to share ours,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u17	Thank you. — Mr Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u18	Mr President, ärade talman! Finland is a developing country of development policy, at least if compared with other Nordic countries. In Sweden, the aid is five times that, in Norway four times that and in Denmark twice that in Finland. At least we cannot act in such a way as to reduce both development aid and humanitarian immigration. You can't cut people off at both ends. We need to be able to help more people in their own countries. It is always more sustainable for everyone if people are able to live and live in their own linguistic and cultural environment. In terms of combating climate change, the problem in developing countries is huge. They cannot afford to build the future on other than fossil fuels. The need for energy, i.e. heat, cooling and electricity, will increase as industrial services and housing develop. Nuclear or wind power will not be the first to be built there if the basics need to be fixed quickly, i.e. oil, natural gas and coal will continue to pass for a long time. Developing countries must be involved in the fight against climate change. It is the most cost-effective climate work. This can be promoted, for example, by establishing international climate funds. The basis for all aid is that it gets as far as possible. Therefore, reliable partner organisations without intermediaries are of the utmost value not to go into corruption. In the context of development cooperation, it is particularly important to understand the operating environment. The money must not be poured into the accounts of corrupt and oppressive rulers. Development funds should be used to promote modern development and not to boost bad governance. It is possible to take a leap over traditional technology in digitalism. For example, it is hardly worth drawing expensive land cables into large Africa if network connections can be made to work with link stations. Finland has much to offer both in the fight against climate change and in the digital world. Mr President, ärade talman! Our common concern is, in particular, the role of girls and women in developing countries, as we are unfortunately seeing once again in the situation in Afghanistan. However, the education and education that Finland has been able to provide over the last few decades is more valuable than the money of the world. That help will never go to waste. With literacy and modern technology, young Afghan girls have a different picture of the world than their mothers, and the change comes from knowledge. The Taliban are now trying to organise a society in Afghanistan and are planning an election. Their organisation is also significantly hampered by the fact that the majority of the people are illiterate. Education and culture are the foundations of an equal democratic society. We Finns are famous all over the world for it. Here too, let us focus on what we can do. Mr President, ärade talman! We need to get a more sustainable front for our development policy over the changing governments. However, we Western people are very selfish and we are easily staring at our own belly button, as we have seen with corona vaccines. Our development policy must create opportunities locally and prevent migration. The wealthiest countries can thus help poor countries to get on their own feet. In Finland, the goal must be to increase education and opportunities in the poorest countries. The amount of funds allocated to development policy must follow Finland's economic development. Finland needs its own strengths to help the weakest. It will be too late when 10,000 people come across the border to get water and food at once. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u19	Thank you. — And Minister Skinneri, 2 minutes before we go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u20	Mr President! Thank you for your group contributions, which broadly support the priorities and value base of the report — thanks for that confidence. I personally see, however, that it is very important for us in Finland to have a debate on why we are doing development policy, why it is important, why development policy is part of foreign and security policy. Finland is a small country, and in our history we have achieved nothing good by isolation. Development cooperation is a key tool here and it is a toolbox, because no one or no country can go to any table without the elements of development policy, as has been said here. Climate issues, gender issues, education and so on are all things that the whole world needs now and where Finland has a lot of expertise. As noted here, four fifths of Finns have considered development cooperation important. At the same time, it is a platform for new experiments and innovations — a way of working together overall. Mr President! Finland received development aid in the 1960s. Now we are talking about development cooperation, and I underline the word ‘cooperation’ which means partnerships. This means partnerships and, at the same time, opportunities for exports, trade and internationalisation, and here too we are lagging behind our Nordic peer countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u21	Thank you. — Now I ask those representatives who want to take part in the debate to stand up and press the V button. We'll hold the V button for a few minutes and then close. — Let us begin the debate. Congressman Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u22	Mr President! After all, this report on development policy will be discussed in committee, and it is necessary to consider very carefully the various aspects of how this over-election development policy will be done together. Perhaps now, of course, there is a concern that sometimes this confrontation becomes so hard that you do not want to see the things that should be developed. — As, Minister, you will understand, for example, this Afghanistan showed that 20 years were spent there, but some of that effort went... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u23	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u24	Mr President! It was valuable to hear the speeches of the parliamentary groups on this report on development policy in the run-up to the elections. There was practically a consensus here that we need such a long-term agenda, so that this tempoability in development policy would not be dominant, because this is a long-term activity. I thought it was valuable to see. However, we cannot talk about development policy in terms of content unless we also talk about quantity. As early as 1970, Finland committed itself to this 0.7% target for international development cooperation at the UN General Assembly. The other Nordic countries already achieved this in the 1970s. Finland achieved it in one year in 1990 because the recession hit, when GDP fell and the money budgeted at that time exceeded that 0.7. Now a fine target has been set: 0.7, 2030. In this context, I would now like to ask why:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u25	Time. — Representative Estonian, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u26	Mr President! As the Finns generally do, there is strong support for development cooperation in this Chamber too, and the last time we reviewed the results report on development policy, we called for this predictability, long-termism, and now it is here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u29	Thank you. — Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u30	Mr President! I was very upset about Mr Tynkkynen's group speech. You want the citizens to be stimulated against development cooperation so that it will not be given.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u31	Congressman Hassi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u32	Mr President! There are many inconsistencies in the debate on development cooperation, some of which we have heard in at least one group speech. But I would like to point out the very often mentioned idea that the only major problem facing the world is population growth: for example, climate change should not be taken into account when only population growth should be taken into account. Development cooperation is often opposed by the same parties. The things that Finland does in development cooperation, such as sexual and reproductive health work, gender and prevention education, improving the availability of contraceptives, training women — they are precisely ways to reduce birth rates. At present, more than half of the world's population are already living in countries with a birth rate of less than 2 per woman,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u33	Congressman Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u34	Mr President! Thank you very much for the excellent speeches that have been made here. I have a huge amount of notes myself. All we have to do is raise two critical points now. Firstly, coherence: we in Europe, at the same time as development aid, have been exporting fish from fishermen in West Africa, using child labour, exported ore, cocoa from poor countries. Our agricultural subsidies tax systems have worked in such a way that the poor remain poor. Our climate policy has long been very selfish. We have become prosperous at the same time as others have suffered from droughts and floods and so on. Of course, we can see now that they are increasingly affecting us too. In other words, we must be consistent in all policies, not just in development cooperation. And then, of course, there are the objectives involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u36	Irade the Talman! What is development cooperation in practice? It is not that money is poured free of charge into the pockets of medium-sized leaders. Finnish development cooperation is consistent, it is long-term, it is responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u37	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u38	Mr President! This report stresses that, as part of development policy and development cooperation, Finland promotes the democratic development of societies and the development of the rule of law. I am a firm supporter of development cooperation when this is done. Therefore, I would also like to make a critical observation. In mid-August, the Independent Commission for Human Rights held a conference in Gaza. Three representatives of terrorist organisations, Hamas, Islamic Jihad and PFLP, participated in the conference. According to my information, the Finnish delegation in Ramallah said that it had started working with the ICHR in the same week and that it was funding the ICHR organisation for more than 550,000 euros. According to the Constitution, Finland participates in international cooperation in peace
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u39	Thank you. — Representative Salonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u40	Mr President! We live in a fast world in which we also expect rapid solutions from politics, and a fast-forward for development policy is not appropriate, but development policy is specifically a long-term work. It is also difficult to operate on something that is not directly in our power. This, too, makes development policy difficult. We must accept the pace of the countries of destination, our own desire to resolve matters, although then through funding we also want control and we need to control where this funding goes. It is also understandable that change does not come about overnight. Although people need help, it does give them dependence. Development policy can produce dependence and gratitude, but it can also create a feeling of injustice and, as it were, opposition to development policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u41	Thank you. — Mr Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u42	Mr. Speaker! You can say to Mr Salonen that development aid has been a failure in the long run. Finland’s development aid in the last 30 years corresponds to about half of the government debt. At the same time, more immigrants have come than ever in history and the population growth of the earth has exploded. And now, according to other parties, development aid will solve migration and population growth, contrary to what has happened in the last 30 years. You have a rather delusional idea of how effective development aid is because the results are something quite different. Surely there are many successes here and there — of course. I mean, it would be kind of weird if billions of donations didn't make any good individual cases here and there, but what's the big picture? Immigration and population growth will not be solved,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u43	Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u44	Mr President! The representative of Estonia pointed out the importance of keeping the development budget at a good level in order not to jeopardise our application to that UN Security Council — last time we had a bit of bad luck on this issue. But, Mr President, I believe that the Finns appreciate the fact that Finland is investing in development cooperation and that it is precisely helping in those countries and neighbouring regions. However, every now and then the news from different countries that money has been misused creates a shadow for all of this. More than five years ago, such a shadow came over Zambia, and Zambia has long been one of Finland’s most important development aid targets. It turned out that a large part of the money from the Zambian agricultural organisation had gone directly into the pocket of the CEO of that organization. And now that I look at this statistics, which countries for us at the moment
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u45	Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u46	Mr President! The main objective of development cooperation is to improve conditions and internal stability in developing countries. It is very important to ensure that the assistance provided is targeted at projects and those that produce results. Investment, in particular in girls' education, infrastructure development, the promotion of the rule of law and the improvement of human rights, produces results that improve local conditions that reduce pressure to leave the country. Unmanaged migration is one of the greatest threats for the future. Every effort must be made to prevent it. What happened in autumn 2015 must not happen again in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u47	Thank you. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u48	Mr President! Once again, we are talking about this 0.7%, but we would rather talk about billions of euros. So if we are currently paying almost EUR 1.3 billion per year for development aid, this 0.7 would be quite a lot more than that, based on the GDP of the last few years. Today, on the other hand, millions are very small money, while on the other hand, they are referred to much more critically, just as our debt is. This current development aid is also covered by debt, it is our deficit. So when we want to take responsibility for the rest of the world, we do so by taking debt into it. This is the fact. But when you here in a fragile voice tell us what Finland can do and why it must continue to do so, I would ask you: why on earth only 0.7%?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u49	Congressman Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u50	Mr President! I belong to the age group where social activation actually began on the so-called development issue. I still vividly remember Erkki Tuomioja and Ilkka-Christian Björklund’s booklet “Third World, Two Thirds of the World”. From that long curve to the present. Hans Rosling, a Swedish doctor and demographer, published the book “Facto World”... [First Vice-President AnttiRinne :Microphone!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u53	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u54	Mr President! The report says the zero tolerance word several times, and this zero tolerance applies to sexual abuse, violence, sexual harassment, tax evasion and tax avoidance, among other things. This is the right thing to do. This is how it's supposed to be. On the other hand, in terms of corruption, the wording is slightly more subtle: we are talking about the importance of combating corruption. I know these countries are challenging and corruption is deeply rooted, but do you think that the objective of zero tolerance for corruption is possible? The second question concerns Myanmar. There was a military coup in February, and since then, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website, Finland's development aid has decreased and it is all right to have reacted quickly. My question is: has the money saved been targeted at another target? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u55	Thank you. — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u56	Honorable Speaker! President of the Administrative Section: We are dealing with the administrative section on the development budget for the UM, and from last year's budget report I would like to point out that, overall, 1245 million, which is 215 million more than last year, will be spent on public development cooperation, and 760 million will go through this section. We drew attention to the fact that the items under discussion have been extensive and Parliament should be given more precise and detailed information as a basis for decision-making, and the common dimension of the articles should be increased. In the future, development cooperation should be opened more precisely and these thematic priorities should be raised, their allocation and the list of objectives clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u57	Thank you. — Mr Viljanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u58	Thank you, Mr President. As far as development cooperation is concerned, Finland cannot be separated from the rest of the world, as the Minister well said in his speech. There have been speeches in this debate to ensure that money is channelled to the right targets and produces results. We are easy to talk about here about money, but then the results and effectiveness may be overlooked. I personally would not think it insignificant that Finland has been involved in projects involving 1.6 million clean water in Nepal, or that similar projects have been carried out in other countries. It will then be easy to criticise such things when living in a country where there is no shortage of clean drinking water. With the support of more prosperous countries, we are able to help people both to get water and to go to school and to receive health services. Like I said, we are self-explanatory, but we are part of those prosperous countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u59	Congressman Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u60	Mr President! Afghanistan has been Finland’s largest partner in development cooperation in recent years. Since the Taliban took over, development projects are now frozen — for how long, no one knows. In the past, support from Finland was channelled mainly through the reconstruction fund managed by the World Bank and UN agencies, which funded projects by the Afghan Government. If the aid is to continue, it is important that it takes the form that it is not of interest to the Taliban or that it is easy to convert it for other purposes or into part of corruption. For example, exporting agricultural know-how and education to remote areas where literacy is low would make life easier for ordinary citizens, but would not contribute to the possible anti-human rights objectives of the current regime. As Mr Niikko said: the West's management of Afghanistan for 20 years must be learnt. Even Mr Kalmar must recognise the fact that development cooperation also requires development.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u61	Thank you. — Representative Kaleva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u62	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking here about these successes, which also exist, but they are unfortunately few in Finland's development cooperation. It has not been a long time since the State Department officials told us that they had a playful like this race had been about whose supervised project is the most unsuccessful, produced the least of the results. Yes, we need to pay attention to this. The quantity does not replace the quality here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u65	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u66	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, perhaps a few false claims: Here Mr Hassi suggested that the population in no part of the world is not growing at the moment: it is worth looking at the new statistics, for Nigeria, for example, has a prognosis of explosive population growth. Similarly, Denmark, Sweden and Norway were talking about these control countries: they have a higher forecast of economic growth and a lower debt level, which is, of course, everyone according to their own ability. There's nothing else we can do. If one of us has a better financial situation, should we now have the privilege of taking on more debt again? We had an internal security report today and here in the next few days, and at least according to the Government's security report, exclusion and social nausea and multiple problems are one of the greatest threats to internal security. If we have such serious threats internally, I would like to see hundreds of millions more invested in internal security. There does seem to be no money on the outside or on the outside.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u67	Thank you. — I will give you eight more answers: in the reverse order, the group speakers. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u68	Mr President! One more thing about these funds: There is little to see: development cooperation is the responsibility of a civilised state. It is like paying for all the resources we use to build our own well-being. It would not be a bad thing if it were to be taken to the level of the law that we, as a civilised state, could offer such an international, global basic service money of 0.7%, which would then not be swinging in different economic cycles, but would be absolutely permanent funding. That's where we could go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u69	Thank you. — Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u70	Mr President! Congressman Lindén took a few words out of my mouth. I, too, would have liked to recommend Hans Rosling's Factfulness book to skeptics. He says: “There’s no room forfacts whenourmindsareoccupiedbyfear. “ In my opinion, it is a pretty good reflection of this way of thinking. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u71	Thank you. — Mr Kivelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u72	Mr President! It is sad that, for the first time in decades, the corona has caused a setback in development, and the pandemic will not disappear from this world by vaccinating only the inhabitants of wealthy countries. The corona raging in the global south cripples the fragile health care, school and business of developing countries. It is good that Finland has donated unused vaccines to developing countries, but this is not enough. We need patent flexibility, we need funding for interest rate measures, we need solidarity. The financial position of the poorer countries must also be ensured both in the general development policy and in the recovery of the interest rate, so as to ensure that they are better able to carry out, independently and on their own terms, socially just ecological reconstruction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u73	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u74	Mr President! Representative to Niiko and others: we will certainly all share the objective of eradicating corruption and good governance as part of Finland's development cooperation. This is also in the direction of the Finnish People's Party: I personally regard the objectives of the '80s percentage movement as quite respectable and good, and of course they too can be brought to the debate. In terms of population growth, it is estimated that in 2050 there will be one billion young people in Africa. Youth is an enormous resource for Africa, but it is also a challenge. At present, around 18 million new workers enter the labour market every year and only 3 million jobs are created. These figures do explain why there is a need to look for work and life elsewhere. I hope that the Africa strategy and this development policy report will work well together in the future, and at European level, too, these two aspects will have to be seen side by side.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u75	Thank you. - Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u76	Mr President! Despite a very colorful argument, I am moving the debate back to the basics on which development cooperation should be based, namely food security, where Finland has a lot of expertise to offer. From the point of view of food security, the conditions under which farmers operate are the most important. Production is key, but it is equally important that market developments are also taken care of. Several poor countries also depend on imports for food, and they also have opportunities to export food. Fair trade rules are needed and Finnfund's operating conditions need to be secured. We also saw in Ethiopia, for example, with the chairman of the Finns Party that Finnfund's funding has enabled women, for example, to start businesses. Thank you, Minister Skinner, for serving as the school food ambassador for the World Food Programme. School meals play an important role in improving food security. How? Finland takes into account the comprehensive development of food security
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u77	Congressman Sirén is gone, isn't he? — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u78	Mr President! Let us now return to that important point for the whole debate and for Finland's future development policy: This paper says "super-violent". That was an excellent starting point. It has been stressed that in order to achieve results and effectiveness, what is being chosen is what is being done, for example, with regard to land borders and thematics, and so on, but in that negotiation, where I was also a representative of the Finns of Peruvian origin, I had to find in it that there was no point in getting a common view of the lowest denominator to which everyone could commit, but in practice there were pre-defined goals of the red-green parties that had to be drawn through, such as this 0.7. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u79	Congressman al-Taee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u80	Mr President! I know that it is the Finns who have weaknesses in foreign policy security issues. I've noticed that every time they've been debated. When you open a map, a map of the world, you will see that it is around the EU that boils all the time. Fossils are slowly going down, those societies will soon have no own resources, and many children will be born there. The fact that we are developing synthetic fuels and helping them to move into new economic mechanisms, including by changing the tax base, will inevitably lead to fewer people coming instead of millions of newcomers, and they will be much happier when they can be home and not have to come here. At this point, anyone who speaks against the fact that development policy money should be counted will not understand his own safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u81	Thank you. — The debatable part is then closed by Minister Skinneri, for three minutes. Then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u82	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for a valuable and good debate and a number of questions. I am now trying to sum up everything that is essential for three minutes. The 0,7 debate, a very important issue. As Minister, I will certainly do everything in my power to make progress and I would like to see this debate with all the parliamentary groups, for example, by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u85	Thank you. — Let's go to the list of speakers. Congressman Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u86	Mr President! Development policy refers to action that affects the position and situation of developing countries. In English, it means improving the world. And at the moment, when we are already living in debt, that means more debt-taking and the loss of debt money around the world. Among other things, the report mentions that mitigation of climate change and adaptation to climate change is one of the most important issues affecting the future of mankind — mitigation and adaptation. With regard to that restraint, I have to ask, what is the illusion that you, the government, are living in? I understand, of course, that it is a global fad to live in such a global fad. The fact is, however, that the climate has always changed and will always change, whether man exists or not. This cheating by climate change must be put in place in such a way that every climate-related decision-making takes into account the human contribution to climate change. Then there is the adaptation to climate change mentioned in the report. So at what point has our society become so sidetracked that climate change needs to be readjusted? In my understanding, man has been with climate change as long as man has existed. It is shocking to see how sidetracked our welfare society has become. Some citizens are not even sure of their gender, and we are already talking about adapting to climate change in this house. Mr President! The task of the Finnish State is primarily to promote the well-being of Finnish and Finnish citizens. It's not the job to be a social welfare office for the whole world. Over time, development aid has been built up as a tool for bandits to exploit gullibles. It would be much easier to believe in the goodness of development aid if it only begins when it is no longer necessary to make it with debt money. Mr President! Another key objective of the report is that all people have the opportunity to participate in the decision-making process in matters relating to them. This is something that the VKK can also agree with, for power belongs to the people. In Finland, the principle is not fulfilled either, and that is why the VKK was born. In the field of development policy, Finland will also be restored to the line defined by the will of the people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u87	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u88	Mr President! Finland’s geographical focus on development cooperation is Africa. In Africa, the population grows by about 90,000 people every day. Different phenomena have a clear cross-link. The population increase is linked to soil degradation, erosion, the end of fresh water, food shortages, climate change, rising sea levels and political instability. Competition for resources leads to wars and conflicts. People are desperately looking for a safe environment and a more secure livelihood. Controlling population growth under control should be a common objective of the UN, and particularly of Africa. Education and literacy help. Mr President! ‘For how developing countries usetheir resources,including by combating corruption,is important from the perspective of development. “ That is what the report says. Regrettably, the desire and readiness of corrupt governments to develop society and the economy is weak. The responsibility for our own people is low. According to the report, Finnish development cooperation is based on zero tolerance in terms of sexual exploitation, violence, sexual harassment, tax evasion and tax avoidance. In the area of corruption, too, the objective must be zero tolerance, although the objective may sound oversized in many of the countries concerned, but it is not more oversized than the ones mentioned above. Finally, Mr President, Finnfund is doing important work on development cooperation in the form of loans and investment. Profitable business activities also provide sustainable jobs for women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u89	Thank you. — Mr Ovaska is absent. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u90	Mr President! In the report on development policy, development cooperation is mentioned as part of foreign policy. As with all policy sectors, development cooperation must therefore be objective and effective. The report itself did not mention concrete results, so unfortunately we have to wait for the final report on development policy to be published at the end of the parliamentary term. With regard to ambition, the focus on funding should be shifted to more lending and investment-based activities, for example through Finnfund, mentioned earlier. Providing aid in the form of grants alone is rarely objective or effective. The ancient saying goes: Give the man the fish and feed him for the day, teach him how to fish and feed him for the rest of his life. Mr President! Of course, food aid has its place in the event of a major humanitarian crisis, but it is completely absurd to dump free aid year after year and at the same time expect the beneficiary to manage on its own in the future. That is why loan and investment-based development aid should be at a higher priority in Finland's strategy. Direct financial support, channelled through the UN or the EU, is far from effective, as money goes easily into corruption or into a pocket of direct power. When examples have been mentioned here, I will take an example from Zambia in 2016, where the millions of euros given by Finland and Sweden had gone directly to the tens of thousands of euros a month's salary and millions of euros only mysteriously disappeared, perhaps in the pockets of the same leader. Attention should be paid to the number and selection of partners and projects. Would it be better to focus on a few countries with higher stakes and to refrain from various small projects carried out by other countries or organisations? By decentralising resources to too many targets, the most efficient efficiency for funding may not be achieved. To the extent that it is not selfish to assume that the helper country itself could not benefit from it. For example, Finland has supported the operation of the UNDP-managed Iraq Stability Fund with a total of EUR 11 million since 2016, but still Iraq will not accept its rejected asylum applications if they do not have the will to leave. It would be of great benefit to both of us if this return agreement were finally negotiated. The number of undocumented people in Finland would decrease, and Iraq would bring back young men to rebuild its country. The report also highlights what has also been mentioned in the Government Programme that the increase in development cooperation appropriations to 0.7% of GDP by 2030 should be implemented. This would mean an increase of some EUR 600 million every year in government expenditure and would require even more debt to be taken into account for an already record-deficit budget. Mr President! In the past, an alternative model has also been proposed in addition to direct financial development aid paid by the State with a debt. This model would create a development aid fund under the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the financing of which would also be the responsibility of the public. A study commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the end of 2020 has already been mentioned here, and 80 per cent of Finns considered development cooperation and development policy to be either very or rather important. Therefore, the payers would be known, and this could perhaps lead to a substantial reduction in the share of the State's tax resources. This report also mentions the objectives of development cooperation as climate sustainability, the fight against climate change, the diversity of natural resources and so on, environmental themes. This huge global support also has a weakening effect on the fight against climate change. Population growth is a real problem in the sub-Saharan countries, and it is precisely women's and girls' education that would be an essential part of solving this. Many researchers also consider family planning to be a determining factor for the climate. Mr President! If development aid is given and climate concerns are in mind, migration from low carbon footprint countries to the cold north cannot be maintained at the same time. Migration accelerates the growth of emissions,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u91	Thank you. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u92	Mr President! For the first time since the beginning of the 1990s, Koronapandemia has led to a decline in human development. The pandemic has widened the gap between prosperous countries and poor developing countries. In this context, strengthening and targeting development cooperation, especially for the weakest, is particularly important. Mr President! The central starting point for Finland’s development cooperation is to support developing countries to achieve sustainable development goals. The starting point is always to strengthen the capacity and carrying capacity of developing countries. By combining public and private funding, overall funding for sustainable development can multiply and generate wider development impacts. Finland is committed to the UN target of spending 0.7% of its gross national income on development cooperation, and the target year for this is 2030. Although this report does not yet contain a roadmap for development funding for that objective, it is important that it is pursued with determination, as Mr Skinner has said here. On the positive side, Finland is very close to achieving the 0.2% target for the least developed countries. The emphasis on development funding for the poorest and most fragile countries must continue. Mr President! The report outlines the long-term priorities of Finland's development policy, such as women's and girls' rights, education, democratic societies and climate and natural resources. It is important that education is given a new focus. The content of the training focus remains relatively thin in the report, but the first steps in the implementation have been good. The new priority will be systematically deepened and its links with other priorities and humanitarian aid will be strengthened during the Government term. Finland’s geographical focus of development cooperation is Africa, a continent of young people, where around 60% of the population are under 25 years of age. After the economic crisis caused by interest, it is all the more important for young people to receive training that leads to employment and livelihood. In African countries, between 10 and 12 million young people enter the labour market each year, but only 3 million new jobs are created. From this point of view, it is important that the report takes a broad view of the role played by the private sector in the development process. Small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly important for the creation of new jobs. However, it is in the least developed countries that the SME sector is underdeveloped. Finland therefore has the opportunity to be larger in size in support of the responsible and growing SME sector in the least developed countries. Mr President! Development cooperation in the midst of the climate crisis and the loss of nature is more important than ever. Development policy also implements the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Climate change, natural disasters and increased natural disasters make the achievement of sustainable development objectives more difficult and more destabilising. They increase refugees, migration, poverty and conflict. Food security and access to water and energy are also at risk. However, developing countries can play a key role in the international solution by implementing sustainable development and by choosing climate-resistant, biodiversity-friendly and low-emission solutions in response to development challenges. Finland must also play its fair role in supporting climate action in developing countries. However, the increase in climate finance must not reduce other development funds. Emissions auction revenues should be allocated to development and climate finance in the future. Finland must promote the identification of climate refugees in international agreements. Mr President! Finland's development policy must be genuinely human rights-based, transparent, effective and responsible. Greens are in favour of reporting development results in accordance with internationally accepted open standards. Companies supported by development cooperation funds must be obliged to comply with the best possible criteria for tax liability and transparency and to contribute to the objectives of Finland's development policy. It is also necessary to ensure that Finland’s foreign and trade policy consistently supports development policy objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u93	Thank you. — And Mr Mattila is absent. — Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u94	Madam President! Thank you for this report. It is good to have a political debate on how to engage in development cooperation over the parliamentary term, and it is therefore a pity that there was no parliamentary consensus. I hope, however, that all parties in the first place had a sincere will to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u97	Congressman Reijone is gone. — Representative Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u98	Mr President! The report on the over-election period of development policy outlines Finland’s activities largely from the point of view of values. This report is the first report to be made during the run-up to the elections, which will also be committed to future governments, just as was the commitment made in the recently adopted EU recovery package, which, without consulting the people, was trampled on and paid for by future generations in this Chamber. The Finns of Peru participated in the Senior Election Review Group of Development Policy, but could not sign the bipartisan report because its values and goals do not meet with the values of the Finns of Peru. The values of the Finns Party are not primarily about helping other states and their citizens and getting involved in state affairs until the affairs of their own citizens have been dealt with in all respects, even in an unavoidable way. Now you, my dear government, would be prepared to raise development aid funding from 0.5 to 0.7%, which means an increase of hundreds of millions — an increase of hundreds of millions. Where do we tear this thing from? You weren't ready to fund a nurse's medal. So you have no respect for the elderly in this country, whose services are in disrepute, but you are prepared to throw it to the savannahs of the same money. It is, of course, wonderful that Finland participates in international cooperation to safeguard peace and human rights and to develop society, as the first paragraph of our Constitution makes a huge stand, but it must not be at the expense of the citizens of its own country and the forgetfulness of the disadvantaged. This is exactly what is happening. There's got to be some kind of rat to pick up the money. Mr President! The report itself is full of red-green values and ideology, which are not signed by the majority of citizens. As long as the population explosion in third countries is not contained, Finland's efforts to waste development funds and, in my opinion, also to combat global climate change are completely pointless. It is absurd to dream of a better world if the causes of the problems are swept under the carpet and not even addressed in the aside sentences of the report. The Government has responded to the development criticisms of Finns on the basis of international treaties and the UN Convention on Human Rights. I would remind the Government that Article 94 of the Constitution also mentions international obligations and their dismissals on the same grounds as their acceptance. In other words, the adoption of the obligations and their dismissal will be decided by the Parliament, which is the supreme body exercising legislative and budgetary powers. In other words, Finland can also terminate its international obligations if the constitutional rights of its own citizens and national security so require. I would see that it would be wise to check priorities at times. Mr President! The report mentions that Finland’s development policy produces results — results. Well, it may be that it produces, but where the results are most needed for Finland's safety, the work has been in vain. As an example, I would like to highlight Afghanistan and many other countries engaged in political Islam. I don't see any sense running around in those countries losing the tax resources of the Finns and hitting the head on Karelian pine. Like the members of the Parliamentary Follow-up Group, I cannot sign this report as it stands. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u99	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u100	Mr President! I think that this report is basically heading in the right direction and I particularly welcome the fact that we are talking here about women's and girls' rights and education. After all, these are very important issues when we consider how, for example, population growth can be better controlled. We have just listened to Mr Kalmar's explanations from various countries on the violent abuse of women. There are forced marriages, mutilations, various rights being violated and women even being assassinated for quite insignificant reasons from the perspective of a Westerner. Great wrongs happen. A few years ago I had the opportunity to visit Zambia in Lusaka, where I visited, among other things, the maternity hospital and I was shocked by what I saw — the youngest birthers were about 9 years old. However, the question arises that Zambia has just been a Finnish development cooperation country for several years, and there has been quite a lot of money in it over these years. For a long time, we have had the objective of seeking to improve the rights of girls and women in this country too. Even now, however, only about half of the women there are literate. About 13% of the population are HIV positive and have one million orphan children. The country is, of course, a very difficult development partner from the point of view that, along with the state system, there is also a council of tribal leaders who have been tried to give less power than it has had over the years, but especially in rural areas, it is still very important. That is why, when this development cooperation is being carried out, we must also work with all these bodies, but not just with the state. I would ask you, Minister: in what way has this structure of society in these countries been taken into account, that we would actually achieve results in the fact that girls would dare to go to school — they would have no fear of being raped on their way to school or of having other acts of violence at school itself — and that the quality of education would also be such as to induce girls to go there to education so that they could make a better future for themselves and, for example, avoid forced marriage with a much older spouse? At least I would like to see these concrete measures myself, because, for example, with regard to the amount of money that has been spent in Zambia over the years, we are talking about tens of millions of euros, if not more. I would hope that these results and how it is measured will be better justified and will also be able to present them to us in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u101	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u102	Mr President! We are all disappointed that the Taliban have returned to power in Afghanistan. There is much to be learned and analysed about that experience and the failure of the countries that have worked there. The military and political ambitions of the industrialised countries in the country have failed, but what has left something permanent, as Mr Kalmari said, is the knowledge and skills that training funded by development cooperation has achieved. Literacy, knowledge and skills will not be lost when power changes, nor will the understanding of women that their rights also belong to them. There are many inconsistencies in the political debate and in the development policy debate. One of them is the fact that those who are most negative towards immigration are the most negative to climate action, as has also been illustrated in this debate. However, the world will see the more uncontrolled refugees the worse the climate crisis will be. In the Middle East, for example, large areas are in danger of becoming simply uninhabitable, not just because of drought, but because there will be more and more days in the year that are simply too hot for people to survive. That is why climate protection also supports the fact that as many people as possible can live in their own country. Mr President! In my recent reply, I raised the issue of population growth and the fact that many of those who want to ignore the need for climate action call for population growth to be the main problem. At present, however, the increase in the world’s population is mainly due to longer life expectancy. We live older than we used to. 60 years ago, a woman gave birth to an average of five children in the world, now 2.4. More than half of the world’s people live in countries where the birth rate per woman is less than two. In China, the birth rate is already lower than in Finland. The birth rate is best reduced by girls' education, improving women's rights and independent livelihoods, and sexual and reproductive health work, which has been one of Finland's development cooperation priorities for at least 25 years. In sub-Saharan Africa, the birth rate remains high, as mentioned by the representative at the Meri debat. Whether there is a decline in the birth rate will also determine the rate at which the world’s population will stabilise and turn down. Unfortunately, in sub-Saharan Africa, there is a setback in peace processes, women's rights and well-being in many countries. Mr President! Development cooperation also needs development, of course, just like all activities. However, it is not a new idea that corruption should be eradicated and that good governance should be demanded from the countries concerned. When I was a Minister for Development 20 years ago, these issues were, for example, key topics at the meetings of the EU's Development Ministers. Part of this problem is that the poorer and less developed the country, the less developed the institutions. In the 20 years since the debate on this issue, I remember that the country in the world that would best meet the principles of corruption and good governance, the rule of law that we expect of development partners, is Sweden, which does not need development aid. Just as Mr Sirén said in his group statement, Finland's own development path is a very good and encouraging example for the countries of the world. In a hundred years, Finland has evolved from a poor country torn apart by conflict to be one of the best countries in the world. And many of the things that have been done here in Finland — politics,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u103	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo gone. — Representative Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u104	Mr President! Contrary to what Mr Hassi may have said in this previous speech, I do not see that Finland has developed so much through the development funds of other countries, but through our own political system and our own nation. This is certainly the way other nations should develop, not so much through money imported from outside. Money can help, it can set different objectives and it can also get started, but the state itself must bear the main responsibility. Ported water does not stay in the well, as has unfortunately often been seen on the development cooperation side. However, the most important issue from the point of view of combating climate change, global carrying capacity and also security is this population growth in developing countries, which has already been mentioned in the speeches. The UN estimates that Africa's population will grow to over 4 billion by the end of this century. It is perhaps the greatest single threat to the fight against climate change. Studies show that the most effective way of curbing the population explosion is the education of girls and women, which is why Finland should in future focus its development resources more closely on curbing population growth in developing countries, especially in the education of girls and women. This will also have an effective effect on root causes that cause famine, extreme poverty, even mass immigration, security problems, extreme thinking and, unfortunately, even violence, which is comparable to international migration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u105	Congressman al-Taee gone. — Representative Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u106	Mr President! The situation in Afghanistan put before us the question of what was left behind, what long-term development effects were achieved or whether all the work done was now wasted. This has also been discussed in this Chamber today. I don't think it did. For example, the ability to read is something that no one can take away. It's a window that opens up a lot of other views for a single person. At the level of the nations, you can say that a people with literacy is a more alert people. The situation in Afghanistan is very difficult right now, but 20 years ago it would hardly have been necessary for girls to continue to go to school with the same weights. It is an important example of the importance of development cooperation. The development policy line now being adopted over the parliamentary term is necessary. Continuity and predictability are important for the various actors in development cooperation and long-term development will deliver the most effective results. The role of civil society is highlighted in the report. Partnerships will promote sustainable development. Non-governmental organisations engaged in development cooperation are particularly well placed to reach the most vulnerable. Support for girls, ethnic and linguistic minorities and disabled children is provided through Finnish non-governmental organisations. The Government will also support this work by turning the funding of development NGOs back into growth in the budget proposal for 2022. Mr President! Human development has been declining for the first time since the 1990s as a result of corona pandemic. The effects are most acute for children and women who are already vulnerable. As a result of the interest-bearing pandemic, the need for development cooperation is only emphasised. The most significant change in the direction of development policy is the raising of education and training to its own focus in this report. In this way, Finland will use its own strengths in development policy. Finland has a lot of expertise in developing teacher education, school meals and school health care, for example. This report strengthens not only education but also the role of climate change and the loss of nature in development policy. The report outlines the critical role of combating the climate crisis in achieving sustainable development. It is worth mentioning that developing countries are identified as part of the solution and not just as a target for climate work. Developing countries must have influence both on this issue and on all issues relating to them. The lack of self-determination can turn the development work against itself, as the article by Helsingin Sanomat this morning on the US-funded women's student residence in Kabul reminds us. Mr President! However, we cannot talk about development policy without talking about gender equality. Worldwide, there are over 130 million girls between the ages of 6 and 17 who are unable to attend school. Girls are out of education 1.5 times more likely than boys. In crisis, girls and women are particularly vulnerable and the crises deepen inequality. For example, it is precisely in Afghanistan that the future of girls and women is at risk. In the report, women's and girls' rights are rightly maintained. The protection of sexual and reproductive health and rights, the education of girls and equal opportunities for participation in society and decision-making about themselves are commendable. I would therefore like to thank Minister Skinner for his support and, in particular, the President-in-Office, Mr Biaudet, for this cooperation in the parliamentary working group.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u107	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u108	Madam President! Earlier here, Mr Kauma asked a question, a number of questions, but in particular, the following question broke in my ear: how could we ensure that — and then examples were taken there and here — girls would no longer be raped? This question actually sums up completely how naive we are about how Finland works on development cooperation. At the same time, for example, there has been a great deal of support for humanitarian immigration to Finland by the coalition, and unfortunately we are still unable to ensure that, even in our own country, we can guarantee — still — that girls will not be raped. And in the case of certain groups of foreigners — even the evening newspaper has reported — sexual crimes are shocking. For example, Afghans in Finland at the moment are definitely number one there. Although we are not yet able to do it in Finland, no matter how hard we try, we are now having such a development policy debate here, how Finland will ensure in the world that this will no longer happen for girls. This actually sums up the whole debate. We imagine that we can, as it were, extend some of our tentacles, which we have, all over the world, firstly, regionally for continents, for states and within regions, and then we imagine that we can also do so in a thematic way — these are the 17 components of the UN Agenda — that is, we can imagine that we can also put these projects in a thematic way from every region, and also in different countries. Everyone understands that if Finland as such a small country and these resources are going to be able to manage such a whole, we will not be able to monitor at any level the results that will be achieved in which country and in each thematic area. In addition, it is not even operationally effective, because the money is divided into so many objects. It is absolutely impossible to monitor all of this. In a country the size of Finland, we ourselves have problems controlling our administration and we have all kinds of corruption, good-neighbourly and so on, and then we imagine that in that world we could do this. Representatives Kalmari from downtown and Laukkanen from Christian Democrats in their own speeches gave false testimony to their neighbor. Madam President, they suggested that we Finns would not want to help. At the beginning of that basic Finns group speech I was just trying to emphasise that as different parties we should now decide whether we really want to help or just play, so that we get busy and this now looks like we are helping. For example, with regard to immigration, we spend several billions a year bringing people to Finland humanitarianly, and we spend about EUR 1.2 or 1.3 billion on development cooperation now. Everyone understands that this is a hobby of what we are doing at the moment. We do not genuinely want to help because we spend more money on a few lottery winners who can get here from, for example, UN refugee camps, and then over 60 million refugees around the world are in various UN refugee camps where there are not enough humane conditions. As Mr Hussein al-Taee used to say here, there may be no matter how long there will be, and there will not even be sufficient training opportunities when there are not enough module schools and others. The fact that we are engaged in this mascot policy in Finland means that we do not really want to help as much as we can, but we buy ourselves a good conscience. In this debate today, several representatives of the government parties asked that, although unanimity was reached in this parliamentary working group, except for the Finns of Peru — which is certainly not unanimous in any case, nor is it a matter of over-election paper — how can it be that, when finally given to the government this work of the parties, it came back so that road maps had been removed and that this funding would not be increased by EUR 600 million per year? I can tell you: It has something to do with downtown. There was no genuine discussion mandate in the centre of the parliamentary working group. They said that we were involved, but then this idea was rejected through the government. And then they pulled the other government partners under the bus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u109	At this point, Minister Skinner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u110	Mr President! Of course, now that the world's problems and shortcomings are listed here, it is easy to think of the fact and I am tempted to say at least the first answer: yes, development cooperation has achieved things and without development cooperation the situation would certainly be even worse. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Here, Mr President, are the answers to these questions that have been raised earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u115	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u116	We will now resume the debate on item 16 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u117	Mr President! A report on development policy is being discussed during the run-up to the elections. Earlier, Mr Hassi said that population growth is no longer a problem other than in sub-Saharan Africa. Yes, it is a problem in a great many other countries, such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan and so on. Then there's a lot of reference here to different books. I myself would refer to a book written by the retired Ambassador Matti Kääriäinen. The book is entitled “The Curse of Development Assistance”. I'm here to quote an interview with Kääriäinen at the time of the book's publication. ‘Development aid projects will last up to 15 to 20 years, but ‘I personally know that there is no further case for many projects’, says Foreign Affairs CounsellorMattiKääriäinen. Borrowingcontinued:‘Extreme poverty has evenincreased in the Sahara-South African ‘ The main thing is that there is no He said that one of the myths of development cooperation is that development aid can contribute to strengthening democracy, good governance and human rights in the country of destination. ‘ In practice, efforts to create Western democratic practices in poor developing countries have produced the opposite result,” he says." This is where the minister left. I would have asked him that now that there is a book on this subject written with 40 years of experience, is it right here for Kääriäinen what he says in his book about this development aid and its results. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u118	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli gone. — Mr Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u119	Mr President! The report on development policy, which we have before us, comes at a time when we are still following the news stream every day about the aftermath of the tragicly ended operation in Afghanistan. The Parliament has also expressed the wish for a thorough investigation of the operation: what was actually achieved and what could have gone better. Finland participates among other countries in international development cooperation with the aim of eradicating poverty and reducing inequalities. In implementing development policy and development cooperation, Finland should continue to invest sensibly in areas where it is Finland that has good opportunities to support sustainable development. Because of these considerations, Finland should target development funding and expert and impact on target groups based on Finland’s strengths, which can deliver results and long-term impacts and strengthen the carrying capacity of developing countries. Understandably, Finland, which has promoted gender equality very well in its own country, has the heart to promote the rights and status of women and girls elsewhere, including by supporting education for girls and women, decent jobs for women and the political and economic participation of women, including participation in decision-making. In order to strengthen the rights and status of women and girls, Finland needs global influence. The capacity of societies to change existing structures and attitudes is crucial to achieving this objective. It is clear that the desire to change must leave the people themselves. It is not enough to target women and girls. Success also requires the participation of men and boys. Mr President! Unfortunately, it can be seen from the Afghan operation that 20 years were not enough to instill the Western concept of women's right to work or girls' right to school. The hope is that the new administration will, however, provide some kind of opportunity for girls and women to participate in society. A return would be a sad blow to the Afghan people and a spiritual setback to all those countries that took part in the escalating of the country after the previous Taliban regime. Although the efforts currently being made to promote democracy in the country seem to have been wasted, this must not be discouraged. Decades of experience have shown the wisdom of promoting the welfare and education of women and girls as a means of strengthening the family as a whole and thus the nation. It is good that the progress and results of Finland’s development policy objectives are systematically measured, monitored and analysed. Experience has shown that, especially in the poorest countries and in fragile and vulnerable situations, social change and the achievement of sustainable development results and impacts can take a long time. Let us hope, then, that the democratic work carried out in the Afghan operation has not been wasted, but perhaps even progresses unexpectedly in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u120	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u121	Mr President! I asked for the floor to correct Mr Kaleva's argument about what I said in my speech. I wish Mr Kaleva — who has already left — luck that he has recently become a Member of Parliament, but he had really listened to me through a very strange filter, which seems to me to be all the more remarkable when, at that point in my speech, I specifically referred to the group statement of the Coalition Party and supported the reference of Saara-Sofia Sirén to the fact that Finland's own development is an excellent and encouraging example for today's developing countries. I certainly did not say that Finland's development was primarily based on external aid. Of course, Finland has received development aid in many situations, even in the 1960s, as has been pointed out in this debate, but what Mr Sirén has also said, which I myself have also raised in a number of discussions with politicians and parliamentarians and ministers in developing countries — a political system in which the political opposition also has full political rights, the building of a society on the basis of an all-inclusive society, a system of education for all children, gender equality, women's rights, including sexual and reproductive health rights, open education on sexual and reproductive matters — all of which is not Finland, when Finland was a poor and backward country in Europe, was good at the outset, but these are all things in which Finland has developed its own society. Finland’s doing so has been a very important developer of Finnish society, and this is a very good and encouraging example for today’s poor developing countries. Mr President! In this debate, we have also heard allegations that development cooperation projects:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u122	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u123	Madam President! So we are talking about a report on development aid, development policy, development policy report. First of all, I cannot sign something like this, as my party has not signed it. We have different views on this, and I would like to begin by quoting the words of General Hägglund: ‘The improvement of the world cannot be a major task for such a small nation. Our influence on the world is in the order of the pro millennia. That's a little upper deck, too. Our main task is to care for this country, the safety and well-being of Finns. No one else does it.” Madam President! Many times today, in this Chamber, we have been told what remains of this operation in Afghanistan for some 20 years. Very often it has been reported that writing and reading skills have remained there, and it has also been said that the position of girls has improved. I think that we can draw a very direct conclusion from this, and I have already said that the only thing that is wise to take to these countries, to say the least, to developing countries or to countries in the conflict zone is education. If teaching is taken there, it will be difficult for any tribal chief to try to benefit in any way. It cannot be deprived of its right from these persons who have been taught it. If I remember correctly, it was said that as many as 60% of people between the ages of 15 and 20 in Afghanistan now have reading and writing skills. It's all right that there's at least something left over from the U.S. guns. So if you leave Finland to take something to developing countries, then the surest way is to spend all this money on teaching, no one can take it. Of course, I understand that if there is a famine or someone else, the international aid organizations will try to bring them grain or something to eat, but this, the teaching, is the only right opportunity to stay there and what is useful there. I guess one of the sayings was, don't give a man a fish, but teach him how to fish, and that's how he'll do for a long time. Mr President! Finally, I will not sign this report. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u124	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u125	Thank you, Madam President. When you listen to what other parties in Parliament have said about development cooperation, I cannot escape the idea that we have this kind of US syndrome in Finland as regards development cooperation. We imagine that we are like the United States, for example, as a military power: there are bases everywhere, there are different seas, there are very comprehensive bases, there is the ability to be and be on call in an awful big area. We have this kind of U.S. syndrome in terms of development cooperation: We are on three different continents. We have 16 countries where we work together bilaterally. My wish would be that we could really make a change in the world that is, first of all, a change for the better, that is, we are not giving money to dictators or corrupt regimes. On top of that, that work could be permanent and not something like that in Afghanistan that blames money but does not really address root causes. And it should be long-term: once the country has been set up, then we would move to the next country. As far as I am concerned, I am not critical of the fact that a huge number of good ideas have been put forward here about how we as Finns should promote equality in the world, we must make successful mining and water projects — here we have taken Nepal for example — girls’ rights, there is such business cooperation, there is conflict, crisis management and so on — that is, a huge number of different goals in education, climate change issues, that is, quite a package. But the problem with how we are doing it at the moment is that there are a few things that are done in each country, and then this palette is out of control at all. From here, when I look at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website, I know that in Mozambique, for example, development cooperation is being carried out in connection with mining projects. There are girls' rights in Tanzania. Then again, in Uzbekistan and in these countries, for example, there have been, for example, educational rights, strong girls' rights in Afghanistan, in Nepal, sanitary and so on. I have such a suggestion if we really wanted to develop this, that everyone should bring their own priorities and be selected even if one society and go there at different levels at the same time to develop that society, and when we make a lasting change, then we can jump to the next place. Now, although we are making a framework for mining projects in Mozambique, the situation in Mozambique is that, for example, just a short time ago, people there died from a pile of garbage falling on them — people died from it, and then we operate in a particular sector and say that we are all over the world. This is very fragmented, this is not impressive, it is difficult to follow.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u126	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u127	Madam President! Despite certain gravel sounds, it must be said that there is practically a consensus in Finland on international interaction and also on international development cooperation, on the issue of international development aid. I think it's important to take that into account right now. Some more critical speeches have been heard here, and some of them I would like to respond to, Mr President. First of all, I think we quoted Commander Kaskeala and his sentence. I quote him too, and I will just say that, by the way, it is our most important task to improve the world. World healing is our most important task, and the world opens up from us and begins from ourselves. In that sense, the policy of solidarity at global level is not absent from the policy of solidarity that we pursue at national level. Those who are most strongly in favour of a solidarity policy at home are also those who are concerned about man and humanity throughout the world. In that sense, world healing begins with us ourselves, with our own actions. Finland’s magnificent development story has been told here, which has actually happened in the last century and a half. Mr President! There are a number of speeches here which I may be able to respond to. Representative Purra here earlier wondered what the miracle of this kind of 0.7 percent comes from, why it could not be any number that we participate in this international global distribution of income, what development cooperation ultimately has in nature, above all the overcoming of the poverty problem. Yes, that 0.7% is not by chance any of the objectives set for the first UN development policy programme — in the 1970s — but was already set by the UNDP in the early 1960s. For some reason, I know quite well how this target, 0.7%, was set. Professor Hans Singer has been my doctoral director on these issues, and he told me that when he was head of the UN Development Policy Department in the early '60s, a goal was set for the multilateral system, one of the UN considered the independence of developing countries, the independence of the former colonies, which is the goal of further involvement in this global cooperation through the transfer of resources from richer countries to poorer countries. It was then that development cooperation, the basic principles of development aid, were created. The target had to be set even at the time when the development objectives were to be considered and the amount of capital transfers then made in the global system was determined. Regarding capital transfers at the time: Given that there were colonial administrative costs underlying it and associated with the various development efforts that were also made in the colonies, the total transfer amounted to approximately 0.6% of the world's GDP at that time. Private capital transfers were then also calculated and accounted for about 0.3 per cent. Then, when we started thinking about goals for public cooperation, it set itself naturally. When these private transfers were also calculated as part of an international economic interaction, a 1% target was set. It was, Mr Purra, the objective that was set at that time, a transfer of 1% to the poorest developing countries in the global system at that time. The objective of the private sector would not have been set and became 0.3, which was the level of capital transfers from the global economy at the time, and this amounted to 0.7%. It is, in fact, a calculation of this type which, according to Professor Singer, has simply been in the background when these objectives were set at UN level and was then recorded in the first global development programme in the 1970s when it was adopted at UN level. In fact, it was the second development programme then. The first was already the objectives set in the 1960s. So the second development programme was then in the 1970s. This has been the background, and the multilateral system has supported the efforts that have also been made bilaterally, bilaterally. Now that there has been a call here for what development cooperation has done and for specific examples of failures, quoted in the book of Kääriäinen and so on, I myself have written several books on the subject and I can tell you that many of the many unsuccessful examples are found around the world — not only on the side of development cooperation, but also on our domestic policy. But, Mr President, a single example is not proof of a general phenomenon, and in that sense it is misleading to take specific bad examples here — good examples in that they need to be learned from, [The President knocks ] Did this time pass?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u130	I'm sure you will. — All right, and Mr Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u131	Madam President! A report on development policy is therefore being discussed. The report is not very different from the previous paper of 2016. Here, too, gender equality, equality and, in particular, the rights of girls and women are considered important. These are very good themes on which the developing countries still have a lot of work ahead of them. It is known that education, especially for girls, is important because it curbs high birth rates and prevents infant mortality and reduces poverty. On-the-spot aid is the most effective aid — we are well aware of it here. This is particularly the case in acute crises. That is what we Finns have often said. However, we are not uncritical about development aid either. We know that there are clear flaws, and today, too, we have quoted and quoted Matti Kääriäinen's book The Curse of Development Assistance. Development aid has, unfortunately, financed a number of unsuccessful projects and maintained undemocratic structures. The effectiveness and effectiveness of development aid will be measured and analysed inaccurately. This report, too, says that the results and effectiveness of development aid will be assessed, but concrete results will not be mentioned. One problem with development aid is its dependence. In accordance with its name, development aid should develop, but unfortunately on a number of occasions there is a risk that development aid will even prevent their own development and prosperity. The question may be asked: why should structures be put in order if money is received from abroad anyway? Thus, developing countries may be caught up in a kind of incentive trap. Here, too, we can even speak of moral hazard, which we are familiar with the concept of the link between the euro area support packages. Perhaps development policy should move on to a completely new way of thinking. The government is therefore seeking to increase development aid to 0.7% of GDP. This would mean an increase of EUR 600 million every year — with debt money, of course. In other Nordic countries this 0.7% target has been achieved. However, they are richer than we are and more stable in economic terms. It is estimated that the economies of Sweden, Norway and Denmark will grow by 20% over the next ten years, while growth in Finland is estimated to be half as low, only around 10%. Instead of reaching a certain percentage, I believe that we should aim for greater effectiveness of development aid. The objectives of development aid should therefore not be measured by volume or percentage but by effectiveness. One step towards this would be to move towards more bilateral support rather than recycling money through the EU or the UN. We have a lot of good organisations today that can get that money right where the help is most needed, and we have to mention, among other things, the Church's Foreign Aid, and I believe that the Red Cross will do it too. I myself, especially in the church, have a lot of familiar workers who are doing important work there in the field, and that money will get through. Here, too, one could feel one’s own heart: would it be possible personally to help directly, and then bilaterally, by providing assistance, it would be possible to get there without intermediaries. In other words, with better coordination, we could achieve more with less development aid, and this could be the direction in which development policy should be taken and developed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u132	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u133	Mr President! I am going to pick up a little bit where I just left off, perhaps I am going to sum up, because this empty gym is not worth going on for a long time. The Minutes, of course, are their own story aside, and some of them, of course, listen at a distance elsewhere. I would like to make a few comments on these speeches by the Finns, even if the last, by Mr Tynkkysen and Mr Koskela. If you take them off the hook, there is a lot of criticism in themselves. It makes sense to take those things into account. Mr Tynkkynen suggested that it would be better to concentrate aid rather than decentralise when we talk about bilateral cooperation, and that argument is quite valid. That is why Finland has chosen programme countries. Finland has taken on a number of programme countries, which we are investing heavily in. Now they have been Afghanistan at this last stage and partly Nepal and then Myanmar and Somalia. Above all, in the past, more traditional and still strong development cooperation countries we have, among other things, Tanzania, Mozambique and so on in East Africa. In other words, we are focusing on certain programme countries precisely because we have a coherent, more holistic approach to it. Yes, these things have been learned and throughout history have been practiced. Representative Koskela drew attention to a very important issue, which is aid addiction. It's a real phenomenon. It is an absolutely genuine phenomenon, and the donors of development aid all recognize that phenomenon. It is therefore the task of trying to free itself from the donor role as soon as possible, to create the conditions for development in those countries to maintain it themselves, including tax collection, to build a functioning tax system in societies. So, yes, all of these have been identified in a way. But when you referred to the fact that bilateral aid is less addictive than multilateral cooperation between the EU and the UN, you are quite wrong in this respect. International research — and it has really been studied and much researched — clearly shows that multilateral aid is one that is less addictive and that multilateral aid can reach the global community as a whole. I will take just one classic example, which is a big, important example when we talk about the success of development cooperation. This general debate has already highlighted the fact that absolute poverty in the world has fallen to a quarter since the start of global development cooperation in the 1960s — it has fallen to a quarter of what it has been then. Very high and significant has been infant mortality, which has been just as high. In 1990, nearly 15 million people under the age of 5 died, generally from malnutrition, the phenomenon of poverty, but above all from malnutrition and diarrhoea and simple infectious diseases. Today, child mortality is about 5 million. It has fallen to a third in a few to thirty years. And, Mr President, the key factor in reducing global infant mortality is international vaccination programmes, where UNICEF, the UN organisation, plays a key role. This is precisely what is being done at global level and through multilateral cooperation, which is why multilateral cooperation is considered to be of a higher quality in order to avoid this particular dependence than bilateral cooperation. This is something to remember. The fall in infant mortality is the most crucial factor affecting the phenomenon that has been talked about here a lot today, namely population growth, specifically uncontrollable population growth. It has a direct correlation between high infant mortality and high birth rates. They're totally correlated with each other. When infant mortality begins to decline, the birth rate also begins to decrease. As a result, development efforts tend to be made as economic well-being increases and, above all, child mortality decreases, children survive, the birth rate drops. In the same way, Finland has the same example: We still had a strong population growth in the 20s to 30s, until the 50s. There were big families. After a slight delay, the birth rate also began to fall when infant mortality started to fall sharply in Finland. Here comes the explosive population growth, and I can say that since the 1980s, the accelerating population growth in the world is over. In the world, the population is no longer growing rapidly. It's obvious. The only continent that remains a problem for us is Africa, the poorest continent in the world, where these phenomena still exist if we analyse development problems in society. Child mortality is high and many other problems. Half of the children born in the world by the 21st century will be born in Africa — half of the children born in the world. It reflects the need for strong development efforts on its continent. Here, if we need the help of the international community, the help of multilateral cooperation, and also the cooperation of the cursed EU and also the Finnish contribution. That is what we are calling for Finland to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u134	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u135	Mr President! It is proposed to extend until the end of September the validity of the Act on temporary derogations from the Unemployment Protection Act in force as a result of the covid-19 epidemic until the end of November 2021. The aim is to continue to ensure the livelihood of employees in situations where employment ends temporarily or completely, and to support the reception of work and the regional mobility of labour. The proposal proposes to extend the temporary changes aimed at simplifying the provisions on unemployment benefit in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the workload required for examining the application for benefits. The proposals for streamlining the provisions concern certain situations of reconciliation of unemployment benefit and the payment of unemployment benefit as an advance without a decision. In addition, the proposal proposes to extend temporarily the increased protection component of the settlement of unemployment benefit, i.e. the proportion of earnings not taken into account in the payment of the adjusted unemployment benefit. It is also proposed to extend the temporary derogation from the condition for full-time commuting. The changes will increase unemployment security expenditure by an estimated EUR 12.9 million. This is mainly due to the continuation of the temporary increase in the unemployment benefit component. For the rest, changes are estimated to have minor economic effects. Mr President! During the Covid-19 epidemic, changes to the unemployment protection legislation have been aimed at safeguarding the position of unemployed job seekers. As a result of the interest-rate crisis, the number of recipients of unemployment benefits remains above the pre-crisis period. Restrictive measures can also continue to hinder the work of some people and not all sectors have yet returned. That is why the extension of the temporary derogations now being presented is justified. The Act is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to be provisionally in force until 30 November 2021. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u136	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u137	Thank you, Mr President. I'll ask the minister. This helping the unemployed and coping with the situation of interest rates is always a great thing, and Parliament has acted quickly in these matters — of course, we have sometimes had to wait for government proposals — but that is not the point of my question. I would actually have asked about the treatment of unemployment. Many of us are also municipal politicians. Is there any information at the moment on whether the system is being reformed in such a way that these so-called fines would change some way in the context of local authorities taking responsibility for this management of unemployment? It is a very important part, and it has grown especially now in the corona era. In my municipality of residence. Even well-off, long-term unemployment has increased, and when the finances of municipalities are already in poor condition, I would like to hear about this. I have often asked here whether the government could consider that this obligation on municipalities to pay fines would in some way be relaxed, because the money is now going into fines. It is understandable that municipalities cannot, of course, hire everyone to work in the municipality, it cannot do so, and the creation of jobs on the private side can, of course, be influenced by planning and many others, but this general state employment policy and business support, such as facilitating the recruitment of the first employee, could quickly be affected by such solutions. Do you have an answer in this regard? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u138	On this point, I would point out that this government proposal does not address issues relating to the management of unemployment to a large extent, but the Minister will consider whether he wishes to answer this question during the next speech. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u139	Thank you, Mr President. These reliefs from unemployment benefit during this period of the interest rate, particularly for entrepreneurs who have been in a real state during this crisis, can be welcomed as a general point. But I was a little puzzled at the fact that this presentation had not taken place in a very wide-ranging consultation, or in fact in a consultation at all. Now that the media in the last few weeks has been filled with labour shortages and there has been talk of labour shortages, I was a little puzzled at this performance now that I believe that people should now find employment on this basis clearly fast. In that respect, I would have asked what was behind this, however, to continue these facilitations. If the reason is that there are still restrictions on companies and industries, then I understand that very well. But now, in this situation, where the corona strategy is being updated and, in fact, today, we have been able to read the news that, for example, those who have been completely vaccinated would no longer be tested, I think it would be appropriate to ask in this context, too, whether it would be appropriate to dismantle these restrictions on the basis of a very fast timetable, so that people can get to work on the side of support policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u140	Secretary Sarkkinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u141	Mr President! Thank you for the debate and for the questions. — First of all, these temporary laws continue to have the same content as before, so it may not have been appropriate to organise a wide consultation at this stage, nor may it be possible to organise a wide-ranging consultation at this stage. In other words, the same content as in the past will be used to extend these provisional laws, and this period of validity is rather short, i.e. two months will be extended. Reason why it has been decided to continue: Firstly, perhaps when the validity of this temporary law was previously considered, the view was that such restrictive measures would no longer be necessary in the autumn, but unfortunately the deltarian has changed the situation that we still have these restrictive measures. Fortunately, vaccination coverage is increasing in such a way that there is a view that hopefully no longer, then, at the end of November, there would be extensive national restrictions and a complete transition to this new hybrid strategy. So even though we have this new hybrid strategy aligned, its entry into force will only be when the vaccine coverage is sufficiently increased. Unfortunately, these restrictive measures are still needed in this situation, but fortunately there is a prospect that, hopefully with vaccination coverage, this will not be the case in a few months' time. We still have unemployment at a higher level than it was before the covid pandemic, but fortunately it is now a very rapid recovery, but in part it is also in different sectors and among different people, because we know that education and regional affairs and others affect the challenges facing the workforce. In fact, this package encourages employment and acceptance of work. As far as the issue of the so-called employment fines is concerned, it falls to Minister Hatainen, but it is clear that this whole package of financing unemployment security and this section of the municipality is being considered and considered as part of the transfer of employment care from the local government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u142	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u143	Mr President! In 2018, liberal education was given a new role in organising literacy and other language and integration training for immigrants whose integration plan approved this training. Education is free of charge for immigrants, and according to the law the central government share of education is 100%. In this context, some EUR 4.9 million was added to the framework for this task, which had been transferred from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the Ministry of Education and Culture. However, this amount was so small as to not have been able to finance a total of 100 %, but only to increase the proportion of the part of the state of the supply already in existence to 100 %. This has meant that the organisation of education has been dependent on the organisation of education in other liberal education work and on the extent to which educational institutions have been able to prioritise this education over other education. Parliament has also taken note of the situation and, among other things, in the context of the 2021 budget, made a statement on the need for resources for immigrant education in education and training in the context of education and training in non-formal education. Now the government has begun to remedy this deficiency. In the budgetary plan for the period 2022 to 2025, EUR 5 million has been added annually to the integration training for immigrants in liberal education. According to the Government's decision, the additional funding will be allocated to new deliverables for the training approved in the integration plan for liberal education. According to the decision, the training approved in the immigrant integration plan is proposed as a separate entity in the financial system for free civilised work. The Government is therefore proposing to amend Article 10 of the Act on Freedom of Education now so that the framework decision will be implemented and in the future 100 % of the training approved in the integration plan for immigrants will be awarded, the grant of which will not depend on the organisation of education in other liberal education work, but only on the ceiling in the framework and budget. In the current situation, according to Article 10(1) of the Freedom of Education Act, the Ministry of Education and Culture annually establishes within the limits of the state budget the number of student weeks and hours of instruction limited in the budget for student weeks and classes to which 100 % of the State's share is allocated. As a result of the change proposed by the Government, the Ministry of Education and Culture would in future, separately from other liberal educational activities, annually fix the number of weeks of students and hours of instruction for which a 100 % State contribution is granted in the State budget, within the limits of the appropriations earmarked for this training. Thus, the qualifications and funding of immigrant education would no longer depend on other qualifications in liberal education. In the context of the change, the allocation for this training would amount to EUR 4.9 million previously available, plus EUR 5 million in accordance with the spending limits decision, and a further EUR 1.9 million would be transferred to the grant of state aid to young immigrants, which would amount to EUR 11.8 million. The target group of this transferable state aid has been the same as that which is now being trained either through this state participation training or through basic adult education, so the need for this separate state aid has been reduced in recent years. These changes provide funding for the needs of around 4,000 students per year in the budget, based on the past experience of the educational institutions. This creates a financial continuum for educational institutions to plan their activities and develop training, i.e. there would no longer be any need to submit annual State aid applications, but all the money available for distribution to this need for training for immigrants will be allocated on an imputed basis through the system of central government participation to the institutions carrying out this training. This will thus improve the predictability of financial and operational planning and the transparency of the financial system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u144	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u145	Mr President! In this proposal, the Government proposes to amend the Law on Free Cultural Work in order to distinguish the state co-financing of education approved in the integration plan of immigrants as a whole within the financing system for free civilised work. The proposal can be supported for many reasons. The educational institutions of liberal education have long experience in developing and implementing the education of immigrants. Over the years, educational institutions in liberal education have recognised immigrants as an important target group for education. Over the years, educational institutions have developed special skills in organising education for immigrants. Education has mainly been carried out as training for liberal education. Many of the providers of liberal education have provided immigrants with basic adult education, vocational training or training for the employment administration. In line with the integration plan for liberal education, the educational model has diversified the learning opportunities of immigrants' literacy skills and has contributed to supporting immigrants' pathways to education and working life. The target group of education is especially those who need flexible or part-time training opportunities, such as parents and persons caring for children at home. Training will be targeted at those whose needs are currently not met by other training offers. Part-time training is also suitable for those in work. If the funding of immigrants were to become a separate entity, the dependence of this education on other types of education and training in liberal education would be eliminated. Separation of funding would prevent a confrontation between the lack of funding between immigrant education and education in other forms of liberal education. This change would also clarify and improve the understanding of the financing system for free civilised work. This would help to secure the status of training approved in the integration plan for immigrants. The changes to the system of central government transfers do not have an additional impact on the work of the public authorities. When the appropriation of student vouchers for young immigrants is transferred to central government co-financing, one application for state aid will be removed From the National Board of Education, exempting working time from other duties. This change would allow for a continuation of the funding of the educational institution, which would enable the planning of activities and the development of training. Adult education centres and folk high schools have been able to apply for state aid through a state grant application for young immigrants. As a result of these changes, these annual repeated applications no longer need to be made. The government's proposal is also supported by the fact that the status of educational institutions would become even more equal, as access to the grant allocation would not depend on annual human resources and skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u146	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u147	Madam President! Minister! We now have a government proposal for a law on the amendment of Article 10 of the Law on Free Cultural Work to the Parliament. This proposal proposes to amend the Law on Free Cultural Work in order to distinguish the state funding of education and training approved in the integration plan of immigrants as a whole within the financing system for free civilised work. This is all right, but when we think about that self-education in the educational institutions of liberal civilization, I will read a few quotes here: ‘The Ministry of Education and Culture decides each year how to finance a maximum of one hundred per cent of the population. “ ‘The Act on freedom of movement was amended Well, the purpose of the immigrant integration plan is well understood, and education has mainly been carried out in the form of education for liberal education. ‘Many of the workers on leave have organised basic education for immigrants, vocational training or labour Well, what do you do with that basic immigrant education? Basic adult education for immigrants corresponds to the studies in grades 7 to 9 of basic education and is eligible for upper secondary school or vocational education. This is something that has caused enormous problems. You will be aware, Minister, that the conditions for the organisation of vocational training at the moment are not very good because of the cuts made years ago. Teachers are very tight there, and there is very little time for that work to be taught. Unfortunately, there is such a situation that these folk high schools and others are completed with a very good certificate, even with laudable grades, people who do not have the knowledge or knowledge of the Finnish language in practice, and with this commendable certificate they pass Finnish students in the joint application process. So it is not quite right for these folk high schools to be able to graduate with poor language skills, a good certificate, to bypass Finnish young people who are trying to work in some technical fields. I understand that even immigrants may be interested in the field of technology. Now, while you separate this money, I think it is necessary to arrange some kind of grade exam, a levelometer for what kind of students will graduate there, who will receive that commendable number from, for example, Finnish or Swedish. Such a low-speaking student, a student with an immigrant background, may cripple one teacher and one teaching group to a very low level of learning. If the teacher has to constantly monitor after one immigrant what it does, whether it has understood the instructions, it does not violate itself, does it endanger safety at work, then I would suggest that you do something to measure the level of this teaching that these are giving. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u148	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u149	Mr President! The proposal is to separate the state funding of education and training approved in the integration plan of immigrants as a separate entity within the financing system for liberal education work. An increase of EUR 5 million would be made on an annual basis in integration training for immigrants. This is a very welcome proposal. We had a very unanimous and clear view of this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in the civilised section on the budget. This funding had remained at the 2015 level, when the number of students was around 900, compared to the current increase in the number of students to 5,000 and the annual need for funding was plus 7 million for this basic presentation. That is a very welcome and good performance. We need more work-related immigration, but at the same time we need better integration of people who come and are already here in Finland. In particular, support should be given to women's access to work and education. There are about 150,000 foreign women of working age in Finland, and just under half of these women, 43 per cent, have a university degree. Nevertheless, it takes more than 15 years for them to get their first job. Here the difference is quite ferocious for men, and for this kind of participation-oriented, women-integrative forms of education are offered, and this type of liberal education is one that is also suitable for family members. The work of free educational institutions to promote integration is extremely important, and it is taking a catch on immigrants who otherwise find it difficult to become part of society and working life. However, this bill only secures central government co-financing of education approved in the integration plan. For the future, it is a major challenge to ensure adequate funding for immigrants who have exceeded the integration period. The duration of the integration period is, as a rule, being shortened from three years to two years, but a large number of people live in Finland who still lack language skills and have already passed this integration period. And Mr Mäenpää must be told that although language skills are weak, studies may still have a great deal of knowledge in mathematical and natural sciences and other subjects, it is not just language skills that define the certificate grade.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u150	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u151	Mr President! I also wanted to say — perhaps I did not say just now — that the fact that we are able to integrate one of the ill-advised immigrants in Finnish and that he goes to a vocational school with an excellent certificate may displace a young person whose only hope has been to get there on the line. It may then cause the young person to become marginalised when he may not be able to get that study place on the line he wants. So this was the point I wanted to emphasise. But, Representative Hopsu, I have been a teacher, and I believe that these schoolteachers and others would hardly contact me on this matter if these non-language students had so many mathematical or other such talents. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u152	And Secretary Andersson, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u153	Mr President! In connection with this, the representative: The reason why we need these investments and we need to ensure that we have high-quality integration training available in Finland is precisely that we want to ensure that everyone has a strong enough language skills already in integration training, so that we can also manage during further studies. So I see that this effort, which is being made here, is well in line with our desire to strengthen and improve the quality of Finnish integration education. At least I have received a lot of messages about the relative satisfaction of this liberal educational activity in terms of integration training, because there is a kind of strong continuum, also in terms of integration training, and that it has also been possible to reach target groups that may otherwise easily have been missed out on language studies, such as women or people who have been long-term care-free. Personally, I also have some concerns about this proposal to shorten integration time, because it is also facing the same challenge that the integration period is when a person should be able to acquire a sufficiently strong language skills so that he/she will then succeed in his/her studies, for example, at the vocational secondary level. In other words, it is very important that the issues related to this teaching and study are taken into account when making guidelines on integration and its development. As far as young people are concerned in vocational secondary education, it is also worth remembering that we do not have a shortage of places to study at secondary level. In other words, there is no situation in which a young person in Finland would be left without a place to study because a person with an immigrant background is seeking to study at a secondary level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u154	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u155	Mr President! To the Minister on this sufficiency of secondary study places. There may be situations where, for example, there may be training in car technology or car technicians, plumber training or electrician training, which is hugely absorbed at the moment because of good pay and good employment, but if, through free education, five persons who come to Finland as an asylum seeker or as an immigrant, for example, come to a certain line of work, they will in practice drop out the five weakest certificates, and then they may not be working very well for such persons as high school studies or someone else, the baker's line. Yes, it only causes exclusion in Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u156	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, represented by Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u157	Mr President! This bill proposes a reduction in the VAT rate for alcoholic beverages sold in connection with restaurant and catering services from 24% to 14%, i.e. the same as in restaurant meals. My similar initiative was already on the side of last year's referral, but the law on interest rate conditions was already in place for a transitional period of time, so I made a new bill. Even though this bill is now intended for a temporary period, i.e. until the end of this year, it would be worth considering whether it would be worthwhile to reduce the alves in the sector on a permanent basis. Given the weak situation in the sector at the moment, all kinds of helpful measures are now needed. By the weak situation in the restaurant sector, I mean that the corona pandemic has been going on for a year and a half and many have already eaten up their own capital. Restaurant companies are facing bankruptcy in different parts of Finland. The problem is also a huge shortage of staff. When the work situation in the industry has been difficult to predict, people have been forced to apply for butter on bread elsewhere. According to various estimates, at least 10,000 people are being talked about a shortage. If you don't get people to work, there won't be any meals to serve. Mr President! This bill, the reduction of VAT on alcohol to 14%, would shift consumption to restaurants, increase employment in 2400 jobs and national economy output by EUR 300 million. The VAT rate on alcoholic beverages is currently 24%, while the VAT on restaurant food is 14%. However, EU legislation will allow restaurant delivery to be subject to the same reduced rate of VAT as restaurant food. According to a report by the Natural Resources Institute Finland, reducing VAT on liquor to 14% would reduce VAT revenue from the state's processing by around EUR 122 million per year. However, this reduction would increase earned income, manufacturing and other taxes by EUR 51 million per year. Thus, government tax revenues would decrease by around EUR 70 million per year, but the calculated workplace impact would be 2,400 jobs. It is assumed that this amendment would have a multiplier effect and, with a multiplier effect, a reduction in VAT would increase domestic production by almost EUR 300 million. Tax revenue could grow more if Finns moved to travel more in Finland rather than abroad. Restaurant delivery brings more tax revenue to the government than the alcohol dose purchased from the store, even if the VAT on the beverage is 14 per cent. For example, the medium beer bottle at the restaurant brings 42 cents more tax revenue than the beer bottle at the store. If VAT is not reduced, the amount of the licence will be reduced in the future and, in any event, the tax revenue of the State will be reduced. Alcohol obtained from other distribution channels does not generate tax revenue nearly as much as alcohol consumed in a restaurant. Overall, the employment impact of nutrition activities is around 99,000 people. The effect of sales of alcoholic beverages is over 17,000 person-years. About 63% of all employment related to the alcohol industry is in restaurants. Mr President, this information is based on the figures and reports of MaRa, the representative of the industry, and also Luke, over a number of years. Mr President! Quite often, when we talk about a change in the level of VAT, we have an obstacle here in Finland to the European Union and its provisions, but this is not the case because the EU already allowed this change in 2009. This change has just not been implemented. Mr President! This change should be supported for a number of reasons. Firstly, it would increase employment in the sector. Secondly, it would secure tax revenue for Finland in the long term, because quite a lot of our drinking alcohol is also imported from elsewhere, mainly Estonia and the Baltic countries. This would also steer tax revenue towards the domestic tourism and restaurant sector, as it would improve its competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. Now, if ever it were very important to give such a new hand-out to the restaurant industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u158	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u159	Madam President! This bill, presented by Mrs Kauman, is very sensible and worthy of support. The treatment therefore involves a reduction in VAT on alcoholic beverages sold in connection with restaurant services from 24% to 14%. As we know, the fight against interest rates has caused major losses for the companies in the restaurant sector. Of course, interest should have been rejected, but at the same time it should have been sufficient to compensate for the losses caused by the restrictive measures. This has not happened. In the EU, restaurant services were already approved by the amendment of the Directive in March 2009 for services eligible for a reduced rate of VAT. This hand-out in the direction of the restaurant sector, i.e. the VAT reduction is therefore in the decision-making power of the Finnish Parliament. It would be very important to reduce the tax burden on alcoholic beverages in restaurants. I think the discount could be permanent. Mr President! As we all know, Finland is a strange country in the sense that 90% of alcohol is drunk at home. We therefore have a rather undeveloped restaurant culture compared to many other countries. Another strange thing is that the import of alcoholic beverages into Finland is twice as large as that of a drink at a restaurant. There's got to be a change. The taxation of alcoholic beverages must be reduced to a European level. In particular, the taxation of beer must be reduced. Finland taxes beer most severely throughout the EU. According to the Federation of breweries, our beer tax is twice that of Estonia and nearly 20 times that of Germany. High taxes on beverages create a reputation for Finland’s expensive tourist land. When Central European tourists come to Finland and discover that quality beer costs four or five times as much as it costs in Finland, a social media message is immediately sent to friends that this Finland is an expensive country. Many people refuse to travel to Finland because we are in the reputation of an expensive country. This should also be taken into account when we regulate the taxation of alcoholic beverages. We should at last move towards a European restaurant culture and a much lower tax on alcoholic beverages, especially beer. This bill in the referral debate is a step in that direction. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u160	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u161	Madam President! This initiative, taken by Mr Kauma, was very necessary and welcome, as it has a positive effect on the restaurant sector. As we all know, because of the Koronapandemia, the restaurant sector has been curdled very much in Finland, and any way to increase demand in restaurants is welcome. The restaurant sector employs a lot of people, as we have just heard from Mr Kauma's good speech, and its success will therefore, for example, get more jobs for young people. Therefore, the calculation of VAT would at least temporarily improve the conditions for operating in the sector. If even a little more people were to visit the restaurant because of the fact that it is cheaper to do so, it would certainly be good for the development of the sector. And I would point out, as Mr Kauma also said in his speech, that even if this VAT was calculated, alcohol sold in a restaurant still gives the government more tax revenue than alcohol bought elsewhere. Therefore, the natural conclusion is that we should, and especially the state and the Ministry of Finance, steer the trend towards more alcohol consumption in the restaurant, because if the consumption of alcohol at home moves to the restaurant, the tax revenue of the state will increase. I am a little surprised that such a simple equation has not yet been detected. Representative Vallin said that nearly 90% of alcohol consumed in Finland is consumed at home, i.e. not in a restaurant. Well, that's basically a bit sad, in my opinion, because there's probably a lot of people in the house who enjoy it with the family, but it's probably a lot more on their own, and a much more positive idea would be that people would go to more restaurants and then enjoy good company while having fun. And if the price of restaurant alcohol were cheaper, then perhaps people would go to the restaurant to use alcohol instead of staying at home, and I believe that this would stimulate both the operating conditions of the restaurant industry and the minds of people in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u162	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u163	Mr President! I would like to thank you for your good reception for this bill. However, I would also like to point out that we have a number of sectors which are particularly vulnerable to this corona pandemic, and the restaurant sector — the sector is, of course, one of these — is one of these. Often these restrictions have come in the very short term and have been implemented in such a way that even the staff of the restaurants have not been properly available to them, or actually to inform them if they do not need to be present. This has been a very difficult situation during this pandemic. In such a situation, specific measures are needed to ensure that we keep up the restaurants that we still have, and this reduction in VAT on the issue of leghold traps to 14%, i.e. the same as what is on the food in restaurants, would be one measure. In addition to that, we have also proposed in the assembly a wider sale of alcoholic beverages to restaurants, for example in the case of mild wines, and then also a right of distance selling to small breweries, for example. In addition to that, I would also like to stress that since this pandemic is not yet completely over and restaurants are still subject to various restrictions, we also need cost support 5 for this autumn. At least I do not know when it is coming, whether it is coming and what size it is going to be, but I hope that it will come and that the particularly sensitive situation of restaurants and restaurants will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u164	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-14-ps-96.u165	Madam President! This reduction in the tax on beer sales is a good thing, and it would also be desirable for small breweries in particular, because buying beer in Finland is a rather special situation. Now let it pay for two xs in the shop, but then if this same Finnish beer space from abroad, it will only cost one x, so quite a renovation should be done. If in any way it makes sense from Finland to export beer abroad and then order it back here when transported home and it costs half as much as in the store, then pretty bad is wrong. This is a good proposal for this amendment to the VAT Act. - Thank you.
