ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u1	At this stage, I would like to point out that the 6th item of the agenda will be tabled after the 3rd item.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u3	Mr President! This transfer of municipal elections was the act of a government that came unexpectedly to everyone — not just the opposition but, of course, to those candidates who were prepared for this election. Of course, we understand that sudden movements should be made in the event of the interest rate situation, if the situation so requires, but the situation at the time when it was assessed did not show that elections could not be held if they were prepared in advance. It is precisely the question of why the government did not prepare for the elections before, even though they had almost a year to do so. This sometimes gives the impression that all these measures are reactive, i.e. reacting to the current situation. It seems that such pre-planning and such pre-evaluation are completely lacking in the operations of the Board of Directors. We have been very supportive of the opposition in dealing with this corona crisis, as it should be. This is a common crisis, a common challenge, and no one underestimates the harm it has caused to this country — not only economic but, above all, human suffering. But moving the municipal elections is such a big move. If we compare the elections in Europe with those in other Western countries, there have not been very many of them moved, before that. In several countries, when different elections were held, the turnout, I think, rose in one third of the seats. It did not automatically reduce the enthusiasm for the vote, but increased the enthusiasm for the vote. Now that we are preparing for the summer elections, I am concerned about the government's instructions to the municipalities. For example, how is it ensured that sick persons in quarantine are also allowed to vote? Constitutional justice must exist for all people, whether they are healthy or sick. It is a good thing that the government has decided, for example, to vaccinate those election workers who go home to carry out that vote, but it has not been decided whether or not they are also going to take that opportunity to vote to those who have been quarantined for coronavirus infection. On such many questions, we want the government to take a stand and explain how we will be able to conduct these elections safely in the summer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u4	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u5	Ärade talman, Mr President! In politics, you can either build or break. You can build trust or distrust. You can either be consistent or turn with the wind. [Base Finns Group : Name, well said!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u14	Mr President! It has been a hard year and I personally greatly appreciate how well this House has managed to deal with these issues across party lines in the last year. As the Minister said earlier, this decision to postpone the elections was not easy. It is always a big decision, and in that sense it is great that eight parties have been behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u15	Madam President! Minister of Justice Henriksson has not taken the necessary steps to organise municipal elections in a safe and timely manner. The transfer of elections has taken place in a way that puts candidates in a difficult situation, calls into question Parliament's legislative sovereignty and does not meet the requirements of an advanced democracy and the rule of law. I have explained these criticisms more broadly in the speeches I made in the referral debate on Friday 19. 3 March and first reading on Tuesday 23 March. Mr President! For these reasons, I will make the following censure motion: ‘In approving the Government’s proposal,the municipality will not accept the confidence of Minister Henrikssonnautiekunta’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u16	At this point, I give Mr Henriksson the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u17	Mr President, värderade talman! The Constitutional Committee has unanimously proposed that the Government's proposal to postpone municipal elections be adopted. The committee has made only one change, and the new councils will start work on 1.8. That is something we can all accept. In Finland, matters relating to the elections have always been prepared in parliamentary terms — and so now. On 5 March, all the parliamentary parties heard from the THL that the disease situation has deteriorated significantly and, for health safety reasons, it would be better to hold elections in May to June. It was responsible to listen, and that's what we did. On Saturday, eight of the nine parties called for the transfer of the 6 March municipal elections to June. What is noteworthy now is that in the Constitutional Committee the Finns did not raise any objections to the government's proposal. So the group of Finns has changed their opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u20	Mr President, ärade talman! Det viktigaste är att kommunalvalet nu kommer att kunna hållas tryggt och att alla ska känna att de vågar delta, att man kan vara säker på att man kan gå till röstningsplatsen och använda sin röst.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u21	Irade fru talman! Grundlagsutskottet är både betankandeutskott i ärrendet samt har ansvaret att säkerstalla att lagförslaget är grundligt berett. Utskottet beslutade förra veckan enhälligt att det finns mycket goda och grundliga skäl att flytta kommunalvalet framåt till juni, då förväntningen är att det epidemiska läget är mycket bättre överlag tack vare att det är täkere väder, hundratusentals fler finländare har vaccinerats samt att det då är lättatta att ordna exempelvis utomhusröstning samt vidta andra åtärder, bland you give att förlänga förhandsröstningstingstningstden. Det är de mer smittsamma virus mutationerna som har gjort att Europa nu är inne i en tredje våg som vi kanske inte sett kulmen av ännu, tuuterr. I Portugal ordnades presidentvalet på grund av att man inte kunde skjuta fram det på grund av grundlagen. Valdeltagandet blev oerhört lågt. Ett lågt valdegande minskar legitimiteten. Ifall många personer inte Heller skulle ha öjlighet att rösta ökar risken att luet måste tas om. Det enda ansvarsfulla är att skjuta upp lies, enbart drygt 50 dagar. Förslaget är grundligt parliamentarist berett, åtta av nio ricksdagspartier stödjer beslutt, grundlagsutskottet fattade beslut helt enhälligt med enbart en ledamot frånvarande. Misstroendet mot justitieminister Anna-Maja Henriksson är helt obegripligt. Val har alltid beretts parliamentarist i vårt land och justtieministern fungerar i practiceken bara som budbärare i det ox. Nu försöker man skjuta budbäraren och det är helt obegripligt. Anna-Maja Henriksson har mitt fulla förtroende.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u22	Mr President! In a situation where it is stated that it is not possible to hold elections with health security, a responsible decision is to postpone the elections, and that is what we are doing now. This above described the many circumstances that will be better in June or at least likely will be. However, it is a different question as to whether it would have been possible to hold elections in different ways, for example by extending the advance vote at the time when such a decision could still be taken in April, i.e. would it have been possible to hold elections safely if it had been better to prepare for them. I think these are two different questions. So it can be said that not everything was done to make it possible to hold safe elections in April, and that is why we were in a situation where the elections need to be moved forward and the likelihood that they will be more successful will of course be better. Now, however, I would like to give some thought to the forthcoming elections, which I hope will be successfully organised in June, and when the Minister is here, I ask: has everything been done now to enable everyone entitled to vote to exercise their right to vote? I understand that the Ministry of Justice, together with the THL, has developed reasonably comprehensive guidelines for almost all possible situations which could become an obstacle to the exercise of the right to vote. However, one thing remains open: voting for those in isolation. In this situation, we have quite a lot of municipalities where there are still a large number of isolated people. Of course, not everyone is of voting age, but this may still be relevant to the outcome of the vote if there is a significant number of people in isolation. The extension of the advance vote will help but will not completely eliminate the risk that those in the most serious cases of disease or those in isolation at home will be prevented from exercising their right to vote either during the advance vote or on the day of the election. How will this problem be solved?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u23	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u24	Madam President! The transfer of the elections is a difficult decision, but it is, of course, facilitated by this unanimous position of the Constitutional Committee, and even more so by the fact that the clear majority of Finns believe that it is a good thing that the elections are postponed. It reflects the courage to go to the vote and to be able to conduct the elections properly, so Finns are confident that this can be done in the future. But it is very regrettable and sad that one party was not involved in this otherwise cross-government and opposition front. They are, of course, fully entitled to do so, and that is what they are entitled to do in a democracy, but what makes the situation even sadder is that they have been given to understand unjustified conspiracy interpretations which, to quote them, they have spoken of, among other things, ‘special features’ and ‘uncomfortable truth’. Such words create the very worlds, and our society, which is based on trust, is, of course, very much eroded by such words. I read representative Mäkelä on Twitter, where he speaks: ‘Wheelws don’t like it when they say ‘elections were stolen’! So still:the elections were stolen!” Or, Honourable President:‘Let’s just Finland does not have any democracy!’ [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u26	Representative Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u27	Värderade Talman! Det finns inga säkra stätt att förutspå en epidemis utveckling. Det enda vi kan göra är att lyssna på expertna och ta i bruk olika stätt för att förhindra smittspridningen på bästa möjliga stätt. Varje ansvarsfult parti insåg realiteterna när det gäller flytten av liet. Ett parti bli. Vi lever mitt i en pandemic, och det är vårt ansvar som politiker att skydda finländarnas liv och älsa. Sannfinländarra har många gånger rai i salen lyft arguments om att man inte har gjort någonting för att garantera ett tryggt val. Det ox påståendet saknar grund. De föreslog att man i vallokalen tari i bruk större utrymmen. Det ox har justitieministeriet uppmuntrat till i anvisningarna som gick ut till kommunerna i october. De förslog att vallokaler inte behöver flyttas då större utrymmen är i bruk. Justitieministeriet har skickat ut anvisningar till kommunerna om att tillräckligt med avstånd ska hållas på vallokalen. Om det inte finns tillräckligt stora utrymmen i befintliga vallokaler måste nya tas i bruk.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u31	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u32	Mr President! When you look at all the facts that have happened, it is good to mirror this motion of censure against them. Mr President! The arrival of the British virus in Finland has dramatically altered the epidemic situation here in Finland, as it has done throughout continental Europe. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: You should have stopped it at the border!] After that, at the parliamentary hearing, the last party that previously opposed the transfer of elections ended up in favour of the Minister of Justice's proposal for the transfer of elections. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: I had no choice!] Well, now the party which, first of all, brutally opposed the transfer of the elections and then here in Parliament, on the basis of the epidemiological criteria, specifically supports this motion for a transfer of the elections, is putting forward a motion of censure to the Minister, whose motion of censure is therefore being supported here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u35	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u36	Madam President! In this vote, the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament gives Mr Henriksson confidence. At the end of the day, there was a broad consensus in which our party was also involved. But the Ministry of Justice, Minister Henriksson and the whole government did make mistakes before this last stage, and Mr Henriksson has also admitted it very clearly, at least in the past. In order to be able to hold the April elections on time, it would have had to be prepared in the past by extending the advance voting period, by vaccinations of election officials and other measures. Furthermore, the proposal to postpone the elections should indeed have been made earlier from the Ministry of Justice in order to bring that amendment to force before the time of the submission of the lists of candidates. So there's been some mistakes, and that's what we're gonna blame. However, we do not see that Mr Henriksson is solely responsible for this and we do not see these mistakes as leading to Parliament's distrust of Mr Henriksson. That is why I myself intend to press the green button in this vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u37	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u38	Madam President, the värderade talman! Precis som colleague Räsänen bull argumenterade, motiveringarna till varför den kristdemokratiska riksdagsgruppen denna gång röstar för förtroende: det var helt rautt att liet flyttades. Det var också en av mina första commentarer i den intervju jag gav genast samma dag som jag fick höra om besluet. Däremot ifrågasatte jag tidpunkten för det ox beslutt, och det önskar jag är på plats och tille få motivera. Nämligen redan den 5 februari gick justitieministerieets kanslichef ut med en uppmaning att vi brode flytta lies. I samband med det svarade justitieministern att tröskeln att flytta liet är hög och ska vara ytterst hög, och det håller jag också med om. Men det som jag också såg i nyheterna i samma artikel var just det att förutom justitieministerister Henriksson så var partisekreterarna i det skdet av sammaåsikt att luet inte ska flyttas. Det betyder att under hela den koh toh processen får vi partier och våra partisekreterare se oss i spegeln gällande att det ox besluet kom onödigt sent. Vi brode ha fattat det ox beslutet i ett tidigare skde. Då skulle vi ha undvikit många onödiga speculationer. Men med beaktande av den ox bakgrunden röstar vi i dag för förtroende, för vi anser att det inte är justitieministern senm som har fatt det ox besluet. Vi har alla varat mer eller mindre delaktiga i processen och de felaktiga processerna, bortezomib då från sannfinländranna som verkar ha en anna sin i fråga.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u39	Mr President! In December, Minister Henriksson said that the elections could be held on time, regardless of the interest rate — the source of the Evening Sanomat. In January, Minister Henriksson said that the elections could be held on time, regardless of the interest rate — the source of the Finnish Broadcasting Company.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u46	Madam President! Indeed, on the day when the decision was taken to postpone the elections, I felt that there was no need to postpone them. But it is true that a week later my opinion changed: I knew that we had to postpone the elections. After all, the reason was that no adequate measures had been taken which should have been taken in order to ensure that the elections were held safely. It is a good example that today's representatives of the RKP will have to praise, by complimenting Mr Henriksson on his work. If the job had been done well, you wouldn't have to be on your own team to create faith in that job. This whole question of ours is nothing more than whether the work has been done, what the Minister of Justice would be obliged to do, whether it has been done or not. My personal view is that, unfortunately, they have not done so, and that is why I am going to vote against confidence today. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u47	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u53	Secretary Henrikson, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u54	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank both the Christian Democrats and the Socialist Group and the Centre and, of course, my group for this support. And then, at this point, I would also like to answer these justified questions that have been raised here. Among other things, Mr Multala asked good questions. This gives the impression that the Ministry of Justice did nothing as if it had done nothing at all. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u59	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u60	Madam President! The polls shouldn't affect the election move, but I guess they did. This is a thought that comes to mind. [Left: Conspiracy!] Madam President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its opinion that it is particularly important to ensure in good time that elections can be held without endangering people's health and allowing all those entitled to vote to exercise their right to vote. In order for the elections to be held in June, it is very important that these sharp and scrupulous measures be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u64	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u65	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a great deal of talk here that we should be able to trust society, that we should be able to maintain trust and that it is important and that we are seen in some way as fundamental Finns, that we do not understand what social trust is. Well, the question is precisely that we trusted that these elections could be held, that the voters trusted and that the candidates trusted. Everything started, and the preparations started on that side. You ministers assured, and also the ministry officials, that the elections will take place despite the interest rate. We trusted this. We should also note that this is a precedent. When you look at the government’s proposal on page 4, it is also stated: ‘The period of the elections will be changed without any permanent change in the time of the elections, only in the years of war. “ This has been the case with parliamentary elections, when the order of the constitution has yet to be used. Now I am thinking of the fact that there are now other parties and a group of Finns. What do you think of this in terms of democracy and trust when we first promised and said that we were only united in our efforts to postpone the elections? I was thinking about this precedent in the sense that perhaps this is what happens to us at times: some other crisis — I am not saying that this crisis would not be the case — is then a reason to move the elections and get one party whose support has risen, in some way to wait there, and ‘hope’ if something should happen. You listed a lot of things that you have done, and Mrs Juvonen made a good point about our proposals. But one that is also weary, which you have now brought out here, is that you did not bring money to the municipalities in time. I myself am from Hyvinkää, and as early as last autumn, in a tight situation, we discussed with the tax increases and the cutting lists that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to organise where we get the money. That amending budget didn't come back then. [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group] Then there was talk of why we have acted in the committees as we have done. This is where Mr Kankaanniemi made a very good speech, precisely because we could not even present a wreck here today, I think everyone understands that now. As regards this timetable, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also voiced criticism of the short-term way in which this was brought forward and it was stated: ‘The Constitutional Law Committee stresses that the Council of State cannot lay down in the legislative procedure the legislative power of the Parliament and the fact that the Constitutional Law’s proposals on the implementation of the law enforcement procedure are in line with Article74 of the Constitution. “ The committee also regretted, from the point of ‘In particular, theunlawful situation has led to a lack of clarity in In addition,the Constitutional Affairs We have been talking here as if the Constitutional Committee had not taken this as a matter of concern. [of the group of Finns: Now tuleefakta!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u66	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u67	Mr President! In Finnish parliamentary democracy, the government and individual ministers also enjoy the confidence of Parliament. There have probably been a wide range of vote of confidence in this Chamber, both in relation to the government and also in relation to individual ministers, in history. I doubt, Mr President, that this vote of confidence regarding the activities of Minister Henriksson is one of the strangest and strangest. There's a surprising amount of fundamental contradictions and problems. Minister Henriksson has acted, as he himself spoke a moment ago, in favour of public health safety, and he has followed the recommendations of our highest health authority, the THL, very consistently all the time. Yet there is a question of his trust here. Second of all: He has acted entirely on the basis of the decisions which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously recommended in this matter. In a very clear situation, Minister Henriksson has acted at this stage. Thirdly, Mr President, this is a strange situation, and I asked our group leader what is going to happen next. We have item 3 here on the agenda, which Minister Henriksson is presenting, namely the Act on the transfer of municipal elections in 2021. The whole Parliament will vote in favour of this proposal — and yet we will put a motion of censure to the present Minister. Now click on someone I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u70	Congressman Heinonen is gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u71	Madam President! Perhaps the most important observation of this House was the fact that Mr Heinonen did not speak, when my speech came a little, not unexpectedly but quickly. Most of all, I hope that we will be able to vote on this issue as soon as possible, because this is the third time that we will be discussing this same debate through — in that vote, my will is expressed in giving my support to the Minister for Justice, Anna-Maja Henriksson, whom I have appreciated — but since there have been so many critical speeches here today, I thought that, in the interests of balance, it would be necessary to repeat very briefly the key argument that was at stake here. After all, the question was that in ten days — that period of 5.3., back ten days — we had detected 6500 corona infections. The ten days before that, it was just over 4,000. The growth was almost 50 per cent. Never before has there been such rapid, strong growth between two periods of ten days in a row. We knew what had happened in Ireland. In December, in Ireland, the number of daily infections rose from just over 400 to 8,000. In Denmark, the increase was slightly slower, but in two months it was about 400 infections to 5,000 per day. There was every reason to assume that Finland was on that initial rise of a strongly rising curve, and this was new information, which was then passed on to the Ministry of Justice and the Party secretaries. In that situation, the only responsible conclusion was the one that was now reached in this matter. That is the most essential aspect of the matter. Well, of course, no one's good at predicting. I myself have been strongly in the idea that on 13 June we have a good situation in Finland. If I think about the situation last spring, then on the day corresponding to election day, 18.4. last spring, we had 86 patients in intensive care. On June 13, there were two — a dramatic improvement. This is, of course, the most optimistic scenario, and at the moment we are living in conditions of uncertainty. Among other things, it is known that this corona infection among students in Turku is a completely new type of variant for which vaccinations, for example, do not have the same level of immunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u72	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u73	Mr President! After listening all the time to this debate, I have only been strengthened by the belief that the motion of censure by the Finns on fundamental rights is both vile and cowardly. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u74	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u75	Madam President! It has been a long and valuable practice in Finland to rely on the electoral system. Confidence in the electoral system has been based on the fact that elections are not organised by the government or by the opposition, but on parliamentary cooperation among all parliamentary parties involved in the organisation and preparation of elections. Our electoral system is based on the fact that local actors jointly organise elections at local level. It's based on us trusting each other. The whole Finnish society is based on trust. On the basis of this principle, Madam President, municipal elections have also been prepared. The party secretaries of all nine parliamentary parties meet at regular intervals to review practical arrangements, to review how elections can be organised in a transparent, democratic and equitable manner. This trust has been based on our electoral system and has been an important, extremely important issue. Things argue, parties disagree, people choose between parties when they vote, but the election itself, the electoral system itself, does not make politics. Madam President! Under the leadership of Minister Henriksson, all nine parties represented in Parliament have been working for the health safety of municipal elections in due course during last autumn and this spring. All the parliamentary parties and Minister Henriksson have said throughout the autumn and through the spring that elections will not be postponed and everything will be done for them. At the same time, there has been a deliberate - and, in my opinion, dangerous - spread throughout the system the claims that some parties would like to postpone the elections for political reasons. The same methods have been introduced that President Donald Trump and his supporters used in the United States in good time, claiming that the elections have been stolen. The US electoral system is in many ways weaker than ours. There's been a lot of trust in our system. And when it comes to politics in the electoral system, it must be seen that it can have a very long-term impact on confidence in society as a whole. It is not worth seeking short-sighted profits, but rather looking further at how we take care of this collective trust in society. Madam President! Unfortunately, municipal elections have to be postponed. This was the result of the working group of eight out of nine parliamentary parties representing more than 80% of the people's elected MPs to these Parliaments. It is regrettable that this decision could not be taken unanimously, as has always been the case in the past. The motion was then brought here and, unanimously — unanimously — the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the reasons for the postponement of the elections are met. Now, Madam President, in this debate, it has again been suggested that the polls had an impact on the transfer of the elections, or that this is a precedent, that we should be able to move later on on the basis of the galleys. Let me be very firm and clear: this speech is an attempt to undermine society's confidence, confidence in the social system, democracy, open elections. Such things should not be a policy. None of us knows how this unfortunate postponement of the elections will affect the support of the various parties. Let us hope that nothing will happen, but that the parties will receive exactly the support they deserve. Madam President! Minister Henriksson enjoys the full confidence of the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group. We do not think it appropriate to put a motion of censure on a matter of this kind, which has been carefully prepared and for a long time, in which all parties have been involved across government-opposition limits. In such a case, it is not appropriate to question Mr Henriksson's work by means of a motion of censure, and we will support Mr Henriksson's confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u76	At this point, I would like to say to those on the edge of the gallery that I would argue that you would not keep computers on the edge, that there would be no damage and drop that computer down. — Next, Mr Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u77	Madam President! The interest situation in Finland is serious, more serious than ever so far, just as Mr Lindén has just described. Transformation virus is more susceptible to transmission than the previous strain. The virus mutates from one person to another here. The form of disease caused by transgenic viruses is more difficult and can already be seen in the filling numbers of intensive care units across Finland. It was decided to move the municipal elections to June because the virus variants changed the rules of the corona game. Eight of the nine parties decided on the basis of the expert assessments submitted. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is unanimous. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it particularly important that elections can be held without endangering human health and allowing all those entitled to vote to exercise their right to vote. The voting rights of Finns who are ordered and ordered to quarantine must be safeguarded. Every effort must be made to ensure the health safety of the elections. Free elections are a fundamental pillar of democracy and, in times of crisis, their importance is emphasised. Over 800,000 Finns have already received the Korona vaccine, and the number is now increasing at 100,000 per week. Unfortunately, against conspiracy theories and fake news, we do not have a vaccine. Madam President! Minister Henriksson has the confidence of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u78	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u79	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Henriksson for considering how it would be possible to vote in isolation other than for them not to be isolated. It is great if preparations are under way in this regard. However, I would like to point out that the government parties are, as it were, lumping these two things together, the postponement of the elections — from which the Assembly believes they had to be moved, there was no other responsible alternative — and, on the other hand, the preparation for the elections, but these two things are different. There was a great deal of time to prepare for the elections and, of course, not everything could be taken into account at the time, but I know that there have been a lot of proposals in the background groups which are now being implemented, yes, but which were not implemented at the previous stage, even though it was known that there was a risk that the disease situation might be weak. Minister Henriksson has, for his part, admitted that there were some errors of assessment, and that is a good thing. However, I think that the fact that the election was carried over by some kind of conspiracy theories or the pursuit of support or something like that is highly exaggerated, and I also find it rather scandalous in a situation where party secretaries are presented with a very different picture of the situation than had been previously announced, i.e. a situation in which the legislation that was in force would not have allowed safe elections to take place. There would have been no other responsible option than to postpone the elections, and that is what the Constitutional Committee has now decided unanimously in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u80	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u81	Mr President! Minister Henriksson has the confidence of the Green Parliamentary Group. There are many things that can be said for hindsight, including the fact that, since last summer, no provision has been made for the epidemic to suddenly burst into danger this spring. Of course, such preparation can be required now that we know what the epidemic situation is now, but the Finnish corona situation was almost the best in Europe during the whole of last summer and autumn and over Christmas. Who of us would have been able to predict that, early in the year, a virus will start to spread in Finland, which is more feisty, both to catch and cause a serious form of disease? At least I couldn't have predicted it. It is not a question of whether elections can be held in any way at all, but of whether elections can be held in such a way that the actual right to vote is exercised, that all those entitled to vote actually have the opportunity to vote and do so safely. It is also a question of whether the adherents of Peruvian Finns can vote safely. If, in the opinion of the Finns Party, there are things that should have been done as early as last autumn in order to hold the corona-safe elections on the original schedule now in April, then why have you not said all this at those meetings? [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u84	Congressman Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Eight parties agreed that elections must be postponed, and now that you read the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it comes to the conclusion that there are now nine parties behind this line. The Ministry and Minister Henriksson, as has been said in several speeches, have managed this process in my opinion and in the opinion of many others, in a controlled and wise way, and have had priority in health and democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u86	Mr President, värderade talman! For a rule of law such as Finland, it is vital that we can hold safe elections and ensure that democracy and legitimacy of the elections are realised. A few weeks ago, when our country's interest rate situation quickly deteriorated and the forecast for the coming weeks was alarming, it was clear that a decision had to be taken to hold or postpone the elections in April. The health-security reasons therefore led to the transfer of municipal elections, which was the only right solution. Only the Finns of Peru were opposed to the transfer of the elections. This is a source of amazement in me because, on several occasions and in connection with many corona-related issues, the representatives of the Finnish People's Party have called for stricter measures and heavier restrictions than the government has put forward, just in the name of health safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u87	Madam President! In the debate on the transfer of elections, it is easy to forget that the municipal election winner of decades could possibly be a party of sleepers. Unfortunately, the Sleeping Party has also been the undisputed poll leader for years and the sovereign winner of the election. Even in future municipal elections, the risk of massive growth of the sleeping party has been real during the Korona epidemic, but that is not what the Finns have been worried about from the point of view of democracy. There is no concern that people stay home altogether because they are afraid of corona infection when vaccination coverage is not yet sufficient. The transfer of elections does not lead to drama. Democracy also operates under exceptional circumstances, and that is precisely why there is a provision that municipal representatives will continue to operate until new ones have been elected. Elections have been postponed, but not because of a pandemic. Even during the last parliamentary term, when the municipal law was amended, the mandate of the previous councils was extended by five months. There was no power vacuum. In 2016, a second transfer of elections was considered during the same parliamentary term. The reason was the social and regional government planned by the then government and the idea that municipal elections would be organised with regional elections. A clear policy for any future social and regional government was therefore not politicised, but it has now been claimed that this is the case for health safety reasons. It seems that logic is limping when no one was concerned about democracy, but now it seems to be living before the end of the world because of the transfer of municipal elections during the pandemic. Madam President! It has been interesting to follow this debate, and on the basis of basic Finnish speeches, Minister Henriksson should have set up Finnish vaccine production, monitored entry at all borders, carried more money in a bag around Finland, cleaned out electoral sites, drove in-buses, organized home votes and controlled the rights of quarantined people locally. My Minister of Justice, Minister Henriksson — I have worked with him and I know that he is a political Wonder Woman — he can, he can, but not everything my colleague Anna-Maja Henriksson can do alone. All in all, Minister Henriksson has done a fine job of defending his own, often very ungrateful role as a defender of fundamental rights and legality. Stand up, Minister Henriksson, stand up, stand up straight, you can continue your work. Full support, and let's get rid of all the chatter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u88	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u89	Mr President! Mr Kyllöne admittedly had the right mark in that speech, because it is true that not only the Minister of Justice here has failed, but the whole government has failed. Today's two major issues are linked by the underlying reason why they should be discussed in the first place, namely the transfer of elections and restrictions on movement. They are being discussed because the government has completely failed to secure border security and because we cannot bring epidemics across our borders. It would've been a year before we could deal with that. It has been constantly suggested that the borders must be caught by this virus and its variations. The government has not taken action on this issue in good time. That is why Finns get sick and Finns die. This is an unfortunate fact which must be said out loud in this Chamber. The greatest poison to confidence in democracy is the arbitrary transfer of elections at the last minute on questionable grounds and with the power of the majority. A little false testimony was given here about the previous election situation in the United States. At the time, President Trump said in a situation far worse than Finland, that the elections should be postponed as a result of the interest rate. At the time it was, according to public opinion, the theft of democracy and the pillaging of elections. Now the same debaters accuse those who do not want to postpone the elections in Finland with the same arguments for opposing democracy. Do you have any logic and morals in these speeches? I do not think that Mr Arhinmäki will find one. I ask the government: now you say that the elections will take place on 13 June. Do you promise in front of Parliament that this will happen in this way? There was already a suspicion thrown into the air here. From Mr Lindén's speech, I interpreted the fact that even from that June, a transfer of the elections is being considered. Will the elections now be 13.6 or will they not? Tell that to Parliament and the Finnish people. Finally, there is one aspect which I believe has not yet been raised in this Chamber, namely this conclave of party secretaries. Who has voted for the party secretaries to decide on the organisation of the elections in this country? What power does the party secretaries have to walk over the parliament, to set up a parliament to identify the facts that have happened and to make the Constitutional Committee their rubber stamp? Now we have talked about the opinions of the parliamentary parties. Is it democracy in this country that parliamentary parties protect their own positions? Are there no non-attached candidates and parties outside this country? To what extent has the Ministry of Justice or this all-powerful conclave of party secretaries heard these elements of our democratic system?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u90	Reply, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u91	Madam President! Congressman Mäkelä asked for my morality. All I'm saying is that my morals couldn't stand a place as valuable as this to spread conspiracy theories.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u93	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u94	Madam President! I am describing this situation a little by saying that the barrier is like a reliable path of democracy towards voting. We all believed that we would step on the road to democracy and that we could safely go to the vote, but that was not the case. The party secretaries and Minister Henriksson learned that the corona bus is not approaching normal speed, but comes more threateningly, much faster, towards the people on the path of democracy, on the road to safety. Minister Henrikson pushed people out of it to safety. Well, there's been a reaction. It was left to accuse Minister Henrikson of exaggerating the emergency guard. The matter was brought to justice, that is to say, to the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, which stated that it was not an exaggeration of an emergency guard, but just the right thing to do in that situation. But it wasn't enough. As if the district stones were then beginning to reflect on the matter so that we do not base ourselves on the fact that the Constitutional Committee has found that this matter has been properly dealt with, and we want to crucify again the one who saved the people from it from the protégé. I do not judge, I trust that decision and give my full support to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u95	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u96	Madam President! Mr Lindén had been concerned about where Mr Heinonen was. Be carefree, your young man is awake.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u99	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Here, in some way, doubts were cast over the Constitutional Committee about arbitrarily resolving matters and in a way that someone else, on behalf of the Constitutional Committee, had made decisions. I would like to say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs heard about this country, the best constitutional experts in this society, health safety experts and election experts, and, on the basis of a joint assessment of all these, a unanimous decision was taken to justify the transfer of elections in this situation. I think Mr Mäkelä was also involved in this debate in the Constitutional Committee — although I do not remember whether you were involved at the very last stage. I've been working with the Attorney General for several years. As Prime Minister I have been able to work with him, and I have come to know him as a very reliable, calm, informed, competent person. In no way do I recognize these claims made here. I want to give you my full support, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u101	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u102	Madam President! Elections have been postponed and, until the last few days, very vague instructions have been issued as to whether or not these electoral lists will be strengthened. This Ministry's guidance has been very obstinate, and it is probably not convincing the public. At the beginning of March, it was said that elections were a mass event for millions of people. On the coast of the constituency of Vaasa, where RKP plays a very significant role in the candidates and results of municipal elections, there are constituencies that are less than 200 constituencies — these must not be very large mass events. Of course, I understand that in Helsinki and in large cities they are larger. But what one entrepreneur told me right there made me think about it: When you move elections based on health reasons, he saw the matter so that it has a much greater effect on people’s minds, such mental thinking, and that could lead to whether it is very smart for mental health to move these elections. This creates such uncertainty in this kind of society, where normally certain dates and instructions have been given. Your government's decision-making has been going all over this corona time, no matter where it hurts. Then the elections are postponed, and then the news is that it was a landing exercise. A representative asked how this would affect the outcome of the elections. One might also ask how this affects people’s minds. There has been much evidence here in recent sessions of how many problems young people and others have experienced in dealing with the matter in this way, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u103	Secretary Henrikson, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u104	Mr President, värderade talman! A few comments on these questions: Firstly, Mrs Juvonen, who is no longer in the Chamber, asked about this vote at home: That was forgotten in my first speech. Of course, the vote at home is very important and a great deal of work has already been done on it, and it has also found, through the vote at home, the solution for those who are in quarantine, for example, by which they can vote. So this is already in the toolbox, these measures have been taken and municipalities have been instructed to do so. Then, Mr Basic Finns, party secretaries: I believe that every party leader knows that party secretaries have traditionally played an absolutely central role in organising elections in Finland and in matters relating to electoral law. I have not heard before that the Finns of Finland have not given confidence to their own party secretary in this party secretary working group, but he has spoken with the people of Finland there and I have had no reason to believe that he did not have the confidence of his chairman. The 29.1. The minutes of the meeting which took place — and this has therefore also been heard by the Secretary of Party of the Finns Party — have stated this: ‘The interest situation is monitored by the relevant fuller. The Minister of Justice has publicly stated that the transition to level 3 of the new hybrid strategy should mean that the normal schedule does not allow the elections to be submitted in a health-security manner.’ This is stated in this Protocol 29.1. As I said earlier, we have all been of the opinion of the party leaders that we should try to conduct the elections on time, but 5.3. The message from THL surprised us all that it would now be more health-safe for citizens to hold those elections in May-June, and then eight responsible parties out of nine listened very carefully to this message. That is why we have tabled the law which we are now at second reading and why it is good to hear that eight of the nine parliamentary parties still stand behind the fact that it was then the best and wise solution. So no party would have wanted to postpone the elections, but eight out of nine said that, in terms of public health and to protect them, we must listen to THL. Then, Mr President, what contributed to the postponement of these elections: the polls were not affected, the corona was affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u105	A motion of censure has been tabled during the debate, so we must vote on it. The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u106	The sitting adjourned at 2:48 p.m. and the third item in the order of business is now resumed. In the debate, with the support of Jussi Halla-aho Lulu Rante, the Minister for Justice, Anna-Maja Henriksson, has tabled a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u107	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion. — Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u108	Mr President, ärade talman! At a very early stage in the spring of 2020 due to coronavirus pandemic, extensive social restrictions were introduced in Finland, and we have succeeded in preventing the spread of the virus thanks to relatively timely and adequate control measures. A great deal of thanks goes to the citizens who, as a rule, have complied well with the restrictions. Measures have been taken to prevent the spread of the corona virus in society, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people particularly at risk. The whole set of restrictive measures has been based on recommendations and guidance from the authorities, on the law of normal conditions and, ultimately, on preparedness legislation as well as on temporary legislation adopted pursuant to Article 23 of the Constitution. At the beginning of the year, restrictions have again had to be tightened, as the epidemic situation in Finland has also become more difficult due to virus variants. This is the case in many European countries. Since the beginning of February 2021, there has been a very rapid increase in the number and incidence of disease cases in Finland, despite the widespread use of restrictive measures. The incidence of cases has nearly tripled from the figures at the turn of the year. In Finland, the epidemic has been successfully controlled in many places in accordance with the test, tracking, isolation, management model. However, the rapid increase in the number of cases in some parts of the country has led to a situation where there has been a serious strain on the detection of infection. This makes it even more difficult to control the epidemic. Mr President! Viral mutations have contributed to the accelerated growth of the epidemic. According to research data, in particular, the British variant of the virus spreads between 30% and 50% faster than the previous types of virus, leading more often to hospital and intensive care and death. Although the rate of increase in the number of infections has slightly stabilised over the past week, the limitation measures have failed to reverse the number of cases, at least for the time being, to a marked decline. Our health care system is already under test. The situation is particularly difficult in the medical districts of Helsinki, Uusimaa and Varsinais-Suomi. As the incidence of the disease increases, the need for hospitalisation is also increasing and the carrying capacity of special care is estimated to be exceeded within four weeks with a probability of 50-75%. The National Institute for Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have estimated that restrictions on movement are necessary to contain the epidemic and ensure the carrying capacity of health care. That's why the government was 25 yesterday. On 1 March, the European Parliament adopted a proposal for a regulation on temporary restrictions on freedom of movement and close contacts. It is very difficult to assess when it is timely to adopt the legislation in question to Parliament. Fundamental rights of human beings can only be restricted if this is necessary and proportionate and if action is judged to be sufficiently effective. The government must also take note of the fact that it takes time for Parliament to process legislation, and we must therefore also be sufficiently proactive in relation to the future situation. The epidemic situation is always evident in health care with a delay. The introduction of the legislation in question involves a number of points of reflection and assessment. First, the Government will assess whether it is in a position to submit a proposal to Parliament. Parliament will then assess whether the law can be adopted. The need to introduce measures will then be re-evaluated when the Government adopts a regulation. If the conditions are not met, the Regulation will not be adopted. Even after the regulation has been adopted, the Government must closely monitor whether the conditions for restrictions are still in force. If restrictions are no longer necessary in any region, the Government must take immediate action to amend the regulation adopted under this law so that the restrictions no longer apply to the region concerned. In presenting the law, the Government has relied on the assessment of the need for legislation by the National Institute for Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. If we did not do so, we would be neglecting our duty to safeguard the constitutional right of our citizens to live. Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to provide for a temporary limitation of the freedom of movement guaranteed by the Constitution in order to protect the population from the spread of the covid-19 epidemic. The government proposal proposes that the movement and residence of a person in a place of residence other than that of his or her municipality of residence or in a similar place of residence be prohibited in the areas of the municipalities where the prohibition is necessary to prevent the spread of a very widespread dangerous infectious disease with a particularly serious effect. The prohibition concerns the exit from the enclosed or restricted courtyard of the property in the place of residence. It is also proposed to provide for the use of oral and nasal masks or breathing masks for indoors and means of transport other than those belonging to the same economy in areas where restrictions on movement have been imposed. However, a facial mask or a respiratory mask need not be used if health-related reasons prevent it. The proposal is submitted as a temporary derogation from fundamental rights under Article 23 of the Constitution in exceptional circumstances. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to remain in force until 14.5.2021. Mr President! It is proposed to provide for a mobility restriction with certain exceptions. Everyone always has the right to return to their place of residence. For the purpose of carrying out the duties of general education, vocational training or higher education or higher education, or for the purpose of performing such training, as well as for the purpose of carrying out an examination or equivalent examination of social trust, or for the purpose of carrying out a meeting of a private body or an institution, or for the purpose of representing a member of the Community or a foundation, in order to carry out the duties, duties, duties or duties of an official or an agent of equivalent importance, or for the purpose of carrying out an act of free movement or death of a person or of a person in order to carry out an act of residence or of equivalent personal importance for the purpose of carrying out activities of an individual or of a person in order to carry out an official or other person’s personal life, or to carry out an act of residence or of an equivalent nature for the purpose of carrying out an official or other person’s right of residence in order to carry out an act of free movement or of residence, or to carry out an examination of another person’s or of other person’s right of residence, in order to carry out an office or of residence or of residence for the purpose of another person’s or to carry out an equivalent person’s or to carry out an equivalent person’s or to carry out an equivalent right to carry out an equivalent right of residence, to carry out an examination or to carry out an official duty as an official duty as an official duty as an agent, or to carry out other person’s or to carry out other person’s or to carry out an office of residence; to carry out an office of residence; to carry out an official or to carry out an official or to provide out an official duties as an official or to carry out an official duties as an office of residence; It is also allowed to walk and play outdoors with other children born in 2008 and thereafter. For the purpose of recreation or exercise, it is permissible for all to go outdoors with or not more than two other persons belonging to the same household, and for domestic animals to walk if it can take place with sufficient distance to other persons and takes place in an area where the restrictions are in force. Mobility for entry and exit is also allowed. Mr President! The Government decree would provide separately for the municipalities or regions affected by the restrictions. The Regulation may be adopted for a limited period of up to 21 days and shall be valid only for the necessary period. The Regulation may be extended for a maximum of 21 days at a time. The definition of areas must take into account the incidence of viral infections and the trend in infection in the region, the success of the detection of sources of infection in the region, the regional forecast of the future need for hospital and intensive care, and the population density and status of the municipality as part of an area of business and employment. The law is being enforced by the police. The Act does not apply in the province of Åland. Mr President, ärade talman! Some targeted measures have been proposed as alternatives to general restrictions on mobility and encounters. According to expert judgements, targeted restrictions are not sufficiently effective on their own and cannot replace mobility restrictions because individual means do not achieve the necessary effectiveness. In the most difficult epidemic areas, a sufficiently comprehensive restriction is needed to significantly reduce people-to-people contacts. The limitation of movement and contact is aimed at this. According to THL’s estimate, restrictions on the movement of limited municipalities to the territory of municipalities are expected to reduce the number of contacts by around 25%. The objective of the law is explicitly to prevent contact and the spread of the virus, thus ensuring the carrying capacity of health care and the right of citizens to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u109	The debate will continue. — Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u110	Mr President! Once again, and at the very beginning, it is necessary to say that there is no deadly plague among us. If that were the case, it would also appear in the statistics as deaths. Now we're adjusting the restrictions on movement and the mask. There is no basis for such action. Moreover, such restrictions on movement are unconstitutional and very destructive to businesses and hence to people and society as a whole. People will not accept such things, and they should not accept them or follow them. With such measures, the fear - inspiring part of the people is made to fear more and the other half is provoked. You, my dear government, are now playing with the peace of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u119	In the meantime, we will have a small, rapid debate, because here we have already received replies after the Prime Minister's speech. So the V button is in place, and for those who want to have a brief debate here, it is now allowed. — Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u120	Mr President! According to the Constitution, representatives should have the opportunity to work in this Chamber. I know that there are a lot of people in this room who are asthmatics, and there are people here who don't care about masks and risk their lives. I would like speakers who do not wear masks or any other protection to speak from the gallery, as has been agreed in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u121	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u122	Madam Speaker! There is no reason to close the shops. This proposal means that, in practice, business premises should be closed when shopping in retail stores and services would be prevented by a curfew. The disadvantages of this proposal outweigh the desired benefits. The closure of commercial premises does not, according to the information available, substantially reduce infection but causes huge economic damage and a wave of bankruptcy. How much depression and even suicide will result from bankruptcy and unemployment? In any case, during the interest period, trades are quieter than in normal times, and it would even be exceptional to get corona virus infection in special shops. The closure of commercial premises threatens to cost businesses a billion dollars a week and to make more than 10,000 people unemployed. I understand that the theoretical reduction in the levels of infection sought by the closure of commercial premises is only about 5% at best. The proposal makes no sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u123	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u124	Mr President! We will probably agree here that the capacity for treatment must not run out, and experts say that we now need additional restrictions. Obviously, we also agree that the problem is actually indoors, not outdoors. Looking at this complex legislative package, I am already asking a question which I hope will be examined in committee work: do we want to limit the composition of outdoor activities to family and two lives? If it is thought that there are Finns moving around in the wild and there are no infections found there, and if this is practically a restriction on the interior, then is there no point in removing the set-up limit for outdoor activities in this regard? Another important question to which Mr Taviokin drew attention: Although this is now confined to just a few cities, there are still talk of 15,000 workers in special stores alone. For employees, it is essential whether, for example, picking-up can also be made possible in special shops, and not only Prisma and Cittari can sell the products of the spring season. I hope, the government, that you will reflect on this, and I hope that the committees will now genuinely reflect on this. Of course, in two weeks' time, we will be in a situation where infections have already fallen — now this law seems to come into force in at least two weeks — so that we do not need to introduce it. We are still sceptical whether this bill is the best way to limit infection, but we understand that something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u125	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u126	Madam President! The opposition and the Finns-based support interest rate measures when they are effective and target where they are intended to be targeted, i.e. when they are helpful and not only targeted at fundamental rights and cause more harm than benefits. I'm not quite sure about this performance yet. We are, of course, dealing with it very carefully in committee, but for the time being it seems a little vague and ambiguous. In particular, I would refer to the fact that it is related to other measures, such as the limits which the Minister said in yesterday's debate that only 2% of the infections come from there. If we consider this two percent of the infections, would it then be ten days, or 40 four days, when the boundaries are as close as possible. If it is thought that this same number of infections will come from the Turku exchange school, then we will have a fuss and hundreds of people in quarantine. I do not understand why borders are still treated differently. Secondly, these exceptions to the restrictions on movement: I did not see any mention of the right to take part in the advance vote, let alone vote — neither the municipal nor the state elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u129	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u130	Mr President! One of the objectives of the government proposal is to limit the meeting of people indoors, and it would be extremely important for people to have answers to such questions, that who is affected by this, how, when and in what situations. Mr Räsänen has raised public concerns about how it is possible to continue to do so. Started buying booze, but people wouldn't make it to the Communion Church. Mr President! We sit here for hours, even now there are 50 of us. Ev.lut. The church has arranged communions in accordance with security intervals, for example for a few persons at a time. Why would this not be possible in the future, too, if we adhere to the security intervals here and are safely together? People would also like answers to such questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u131	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u132	Mr President! This situation, in which we are now in Finland, must be seen from a broader perspective. I do not think there is a country in continental Europe in which this British transformation would not have spread — and quite independently of their border practices, ladies and gentlemen. It has been said here that all other means must be put in place, for example, the advance certificate — which will probably be needed after the border is drawn more, because border security must be taken care of — but in all the Nordic countries where it is used, what is there? The British transformation has spread there. This would be honest to say that wherever this virus has gone, it has spread and changed the situation. As far as the duration of these measures is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, very long restrictions for the industry are the most harmful. If we achieve a reduction in the number of cases with slightly stricter but shorter limits, it is much better than having to fudge until the summer, for example, with the current restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u133	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I must now say to the Group Chairman of the Social Democrats that I hope that your group in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be more careful. This law requires necessity — necessity when considering whether all other means have been used. You are now disparaging that line, and I have asked here ten times — two times today too — when that motion will come. Do you think it is acceptable, as Mr Purra said, that there will always be a conversion virus? Can't you answer when the show is coming? Why are you underestimating it? Necessity means that all other means have been used if we go to restrict people's mobility. I'm a little confused, Congressman Lindtman. I appreciate you guys, but don't you really see this for yourself, or is this some kind of political game?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u135	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u136	Mr President! It is clear that the measures now being proposed must be necessary and final, and the government has made its assessment. But, Mr President, it is a question of giving the impression that the opposition here has tried to give, as if these means were alternatives, that there are limits of an entirely different size. It is a matter of a completely different size of action that is now needed. Even with these restrictions, according to the THL estimates, there will be a 25% reduction in the number of contacts, and it will indeed ensure that, hopefully, the common objective of not exceeding the burden of health care. But it is honest to say that just like the whole corona virus, this British variant has spread all over continental Europe, no matter what border practices have been. They have to be tight. We need to clear the boundaries. They're doing health safety now. But giving citizens the impression that these would somehow be the same level of action is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u138	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u139	Madam Speaker! Mr Lindtman's argument on behalf of the government that all other means have already been used is quite extraordinary, because this is precisely what has been said here, for example, that there is clearly still room for improvement in the area of border control. You are always presenting this as an "take or leave" type and in a very black and white way, just as if there were no other options than to do exactly what the government is proposing or then do nothing. You guys keep pretending like this. Indeed, we have had common goals throughout the year to curb and protect health care. So I ask the ministers: have you considered tightening up the restrictions on assembly? Have you determined and considered that the ban on movement would initially apply at night and at night? What if it were from nine in the evening to five in the morning, what if it were from eight in the evening to five in the morning, so that this home party and many private events would be prevented? That's the biggest problem with those private events. There's not so much evidence of infection in the stores.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u140	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u141	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Lindtman may have made a bit of a special comparison that we should not be talking about border controls at the moment. [ Hustles from the left] I believe that Finland has the best expertise in border security in the world. We are also an island in a certain way. We also have the majority of truck traffic coming through ferries, coming through the external border, and it would be worth putting even more effort into this, so that the negative certificate can be requested on ferries in order to quarantine non-truck drivers and effectively control truck drivers. That is why it would be important that we never know if it will be next week when it comes to the next mutation in Finland, and we must now take all these important steps. It is disproportionate to restrict the movement of citizens before this is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u142	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u143	Madam Speaker! This is a proposal that we would never wish to see before this Chamber and Parliament — a very heavy and unfortunate one that we are now debating. Mrs Meri, with whom we were in the Constitutional Committee throughout the last parliamentary term, rightly said that, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was very careful to assess such a restriction on fundamental rights and to assess the fulfilment of its necessity and last position. President! However, I too had the opportunity to participate in government negotiations where the best health authorities in Finland said that this is absolutely necessary if this is to save lives and if it is to keep our health care running so that it does not get so heavily burdened that the intensive care units are full. Mr President! The big thing in terms of the acceptability of this proposal for people is how to compensate for the financial losses that this will inevitably entail for the service industries and many companies. Also, it is worth investing in the way the government is going to handle this. President! I consider this proposal to be an unfortunate, sad necessity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u144	Congressman Mari Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u145	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Lindtman that you are hypocritical here that we cannot be in this situation for a long time. First of all, I would like to remind you that the basic Finns presented this lockdown on March 12, 1920, linking it with a strict border control. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But here's what I have to say: Mr Henriksson has just told me that the THL figures were caught off guard with regard to the elections, and that's why we decided to move, but so did I. It is true that in this modeling, which is on this paper which seeks restrictions on movement for citizens, these are completely different from the figures in the election transfer, namely, if part of the restrictions are lifted, there would be 1,600 infections in the country as a whole in mid-May. How can it be that you bring different proposals to Parliament and, depending on the performance, in different chapters? Who's in charge of who? Is THL running the country, or are you running the THL?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u146	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u147	Madam President! The situation of the Korona epidemic is worse than ever at this time, by far the worst. I looked a little at the types of activities that have been required at different times, and exactly one year ago the chairman of the Finns Party, Jussi Halla-aho, called for restrictions on outdoor movement throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u152	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u153	Madam President! Prime Minister Marin said that there has been relatively good success in the fight against the corona epidemic in Finland. I agree with that. Of course, there are many reasons for this — the geographical location of Finland, the sparsely populated country — but I do believe that, under the leadership of the government, Finland has succeeded in taking the right decisions at the right time in order to reach the situation where we are now, which is extremely difficult, but, for example, in the European comparison, Finland has done well. There are tough, tough restrictions on fundamental human rights. How do I react to them? At this point I say that I am not opposed and I am not in favour, but I am waiting for the parliamentary debate. It raises many questions, and I am convinced that this proposal will change in the parliamentary procedure. I will come back to these questions in the actual speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u154	This was a good performance for a minute, and from now on I will be tougher with this time, because we also have representatives who have been waiting in line for their speeches. But for some time now we will have this debate, and then the Prime Minister's answer, and then we will go to the list of speakers, and then, if necessary, we will have to do it at some point. — now, Mr Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u155	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz made a very good and constructive speech in this regard. I personally believe that every possible means have been considered within the government in order to prevent and limit the violent spread of this disease. Of course, in this government’s proposal, and certainly also in the committee’s deliberations, the word ‘necessity to ‘extremely consider’ thoughts,the word ‘necessity’ really means a club. I personally believe that this is such a drastic measure if this matter in the government's proposal is to be introduced, that this will cause a great deal of debate and concern among people, among citizens. I personally believe that every means must be used to deal with this violent corona epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u157	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u158	Thank you, Mr President. We certainly need more measures to ensure the health of our borders, that is quite clear, but it does not respond to this situation which is currently under way. We have a modified virus here among the population and it needs to be stopped in order to cope with our hospital capacity and intensive care capacity. These are the things, which is why the government brings a show like this here. On the basis of these, we have to think here in Parliament in the same way that the government has been thinking about its own proposal that this is in accordance with the Constitution, whether this is necessary at the moment. The same assessment will be made here in Parliament after this. I find it completely incomprehensible, as it were, to clash with border security and this internal security. We need both in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u160	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u161	Mr President! The boundaries are important. That's how the virus has always come here, and it's still coming from there. There is now a threat of becoming a South African virus, which is also partly resistant to the vaccine, i.e. it does not work. This pre-testing model is urgently needed. Now we're in this situation. What an amazing situation in Finland is that we are talking about restrictions on movement. However, we should now focus on the contacts inside there, and it is precisely these that could be achieved by tightening the restrictions on assembly. A wider use of the mask obligation could be envisaged. Why is it being taken to this worst epidemic area now? We should prevent the spread of the epidemic throughout Finland. It is very unfortunate that both the Prime Minister and Chief of Staff Varhina underestimate the use of facial masks. I would like to ask about these calculations: What have they been based on? What are the impact assessments? These should be openly used by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u162	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u163	Mr President! I hope I have misinterpreted what Mr Rinne has just said and I am wrong that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would have taken some preliminary position on this matter before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deals with this necessity. I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u168	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u169	Mr President! I am the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, and in that capacity I shall endeavour to evaluate matters as required by the chairman of the Constitutional Committee. The same applies to members and alternates of the Constitutional Committee. I feel that I have much softer preconceived views on this situation than Mr Mäkelä, who is an alternate member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I think it is important to discuss these issues. It is important to have a referral debate for this situation, but it is worth taking a look at the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u170	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u171	Madam President! Speaking of necessity, it is absolutely necessary to stop spreading fake news and conspiracy theories in this Chamber. It is very unfortunate to see a representative in the Chamber week after week without a mask. And as far as hybrid strategy is concerned, it worked well on an international scale. Finland has succeeded well in combating the corona. We have a new common goal: to stop the spread of the transgenic virus in Finland. It requires decisive action in every region. The basic measures remain the same throughout the country. The five assets have become familiar to all of us in the past year. Everyday activities in people’s everyday lives determine what happens to this corona game. Things are changing fast now, and you have to be awake. Now we have to block all routes from the virus's progression. Examples of Rauma shipyards and construction sites have shown what happens if corona operations are reduced in the workplace. Now is not the time to compromise on interest rate measures, but now is the time to review everyday practices more securely.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u172	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u173	Madam President! Congressman Arhinmäki said that Halla-aho spoke exactly a year ago... [Left: It was a fact!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u174	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u175	Madam President! Important points which the committees must of course take into account and reflect on in the work that has been carried out now that this proposal has been submitted. I personally assume that such a restriction on freedom of movement cannot be a matter of government and opposition. It would look very bad if the government were to propose restrictions on movement and the opposition were to oppose it. The meeting has become good speeches, and this will be considered and seen whether this is now necessary and whether this is the only possible action from now on. The Finns of Peru have rightly criticized and blackmailed the government on this border issue, and the government has also acted, but, as has been said here before, these are now two completely different kinds of issues that are being considered here. We must now consider whether we have a common picture of the situation in this crisis at all, and I believe that the committees will do this very carefully, both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Administrative Affairs chaired by Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u176	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u177	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Limiting freedom of movement is a big deal and a difficult decision for the government. That is why it must be fair. For all hundreds of companies that have to close their doors, this means laying off thousands of people. I therefore call for these companies to be compensated. It is therefore also important that companies are treated in the same way. It cannot be that special shops are not allowed to go, but large Citymarkets and Prismats, for example, are allowed to be open to purchase the same products. This goes against competition law. However, if this regulation comes into force, it is important that everyone supports this in order to control the virus. A common message is important to make the most of it. A bad example is the statement made yesterday by Chief of Staff Varhila that masks are not so useful, just when we are about to impose a law on a mask requirement at the risk of a fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u178	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u179	Mr President! Finland has done relatively well in this past year, as Mrs Zyskowicz often reminds us and at the same time commends the actions of the government. Well, now we are facing a completely new situation because of this transformation virus. That is why we will have to look again at how we can manage this situation in the same way as when this virus first landed here. Here we have to look at a bigger picture but also at these individual actions separately. I have full confidence in Parliament that when the Constitutional Committee deals with this issue and when the substance committees deal with this issue, this will be dealt with in depth here, and hopefully in good cooperation, because we are all in this same boat and that we can get this virus out of our hands is something that we all have in common.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u180	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u181	Mr President! A year ago, the Finns of Peru presented this model of repression in a situation where it was predicted that there could be as many as tens of thousands of deaths, just as a representative did. The hillhead here told us, and it also included the need to get control of the borders in order. Now Mr Lindtman spoke here as if this British transformation had come here with thieves and justified it by the fact that it has come to other Nordic countries. This is a rather poor argument in relation to what has happened during the year. Do you remember a year ago when there was talk of how people from northern Italy could still fly here, even though there was a strong outbreak of this virus in Europe? Do you remember when planes were flown here from Skopje several weeks before those flights were cut off, even though it was known that the viruses were being carried to Finland by dozens and dozens of people? For a year these explanations have been heard that they have not been rejected, and I do not know why. I have just heard that a person who came from Spain — although a Finnish citizen — was required to obtain a negative certificate for boarding, [The President : Minute! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u182	We agreed here that we will hold on to that minute more closely, and I hope that you will respect it. — Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u183	Madam President! With four indicators, Finland has still survived among the best countries in Europe. That is what I have said many times here, and we all know that. Now the question is how to proceed from here. Then we need equipment. The question now is that we are in the process of adopting an instrument — the introduction and use and targeting of the instrument is a question of its own. I am quite sure that, even if I am not so polarist about this, I would like to say that if we did not now adopt such a law and we had 2,000 infections per day in a month's time, the Group of the Finns Party would ask why there is no such law as to allow limited outdoor movements. At our disposal, the Mayor of Turku asked the Government to take measures to ensure that restrictions on movement are already in place in the city of Turku in some parts of the city. Well, this isn't very easy for us to control, but he got police help then to arrange that the quarantine at least won't leak. So this is what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u184	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u185	Madam President! It is very important that the tests at the borders work, and the government must ensure that this happens, that as many people as possible who carry the virus are caught there at the border. The sad aspects of this bill are precisely the closure of business premises and the situation of workers. There have been a lot of contacts from people, workers from the very stone-foot shops, but also from elsewhere, that what will be in the future, and it is very important to take account of the situation of both entrepreneurs and workers. That financial anxiety is really serious. On this recommendation for masks, the requirement for masks and the need for masks: it is now important that the government's communication is consistent. It can't be that one says one thing and the other says another. If a mask obligation is proposed, then information and explanation must be consistent. Among other things, the Finns of Peru have proposed a requirement to wear masks on public transport earlier, and it is a good thing if this matter is now being dealt with here in the Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u186	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u187	Mr President! I think that Mr Ovaska has made a very important and valuable contribution to the fact that this proposal is so big, difficult and also exceptional that such a strong politicisation should be kept extremely low. There are certainly aspects of this proposal that Parliament needs to consider. It is good to do this in this referral debate, but of course in committee. President! In my opinion, the essence of this proposal is not, as it were, to catch up with what is to be done and what is not to be done, to see a girlfriend or to visit the Alko, but to reduce the contacts of the adult population in particular through measures to limit mobility,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u188	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u189	Mr President! I agree with the representatives of the government parties that this should not be a government-opposition issue, but it does raise the question of whether everything necessary has been done that could have been done so far. We still have this border issue. We do not require that negative proof, nor do we want to test people there at the border. This has been proven, among other things, by the situation in Turku this week. Mr President! There's also that closure of Uusimaa last year. We did not get very good results at the time, and it is worth considering whether this is too blunt an object for it and whether we should focus more closely on certain groups where infections are spreading. Now these restrictions will be suffered by too many people and also by companies, which will mean that we will also have to compensate for these losses, both for companies and for people who are not working.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u190	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u191	Mr President! Finland has managed the treatment of corona relatively well, but Finland is not a special case. What has happened elsewhere can also happen in Finland. The situation of interest rates has deteriorated rapidly in many countries, overloading the carrying capacity of health care. We too are at risk of further deterioration in the disease situation, and the carrying capacity of health care is already under test. Mr President! What works elsewhere is likely to work in Finland as well. In many countries restrictions on movement have had to be introduced in addition to other measures to combat them. In many countries, the number of cases has been reduced by restrictions on movement. Mr President! Mobility restrictions are very tough, but in a serious disease situation they can become necessary in Finland as well. I hope we do not have to introduce these powers at the end of the day, but it is our duty to prepare for the worst. We can't leave without doing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u192	In this debate, I will give the floor to Mr Koponen, Mrs Torniainen, Mr Räsänen and Mr Kiljunen and then to the Prime Minister for five minutes. — Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u193	President! Finland has some 300,000 enterprises, excluding agriculture, forestry and fishing. They employ 1.5 million people and generate taxes that pay services to all of us. Ninety-three per cent of enterprises are enterprises with fewer than ten persons. This is the segment that is hit hardest by the government's current actions. The government must clearly outline which movements are not allowed to take place, order them to be closed down and then compensate for the mandatory running costs. The aid must be paid immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u194	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u195	Madam President! In my opinion, there has been a good debate on this difficult issue. I believe that once the government has prepared this government proposal, there has also been a lively debate within the government and careful reflection among the various parties, between the different groups, which is necessary and what measures are needed. The debate has also raised the issue of border security and border controls and testing at borders. I also think it is very important, especially at airports, and also at that south-east border. There too, a lot of greetings have come from the fact that trucks run there, and from the way in which these checks and tests are carried out. It is good that attention is also paid to this recommendation for masks or masks. I personally hope that it will also be introduced as a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u196	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u197	Madam President! Even in the last few days, this presentation has developed in a good direction, for example, to enable people to move outside, to play with children, and even in the draft on religious freedom, two days ago, there were stricter limits. So here the arguments have been mentioned, for example, about communion and baptism, which are, of course, important questions for Christians in terms of freedom of religion. We have a problem at the moment, when we have been in this discipline for a year, with corona fatigue. At that time, these actions, which have a strong impact on fundamental rights, must also be fair and reasonable and well-founded from the citizens' point of view. I hope that this freedom of religion will also be looked at carefully here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u198	Congressman Kimmo Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u199	Mr President! This restriction on freedom of movement is, of course, a fundamental fundamental right, and when it is addressed, it is a big issue. I'm sure no one would be happy to do this. Here the government has had to assess the adequacy of our healthcare capacity and, above all, the adequacy of the capacity for intensive care. The necessity and last resort here in Parliament will be evaluated. I assume that Parliament will also evaluate the list of exceptions which is relatively broad here and which the Prime Minister has read for us. I stayed to reflect on the Government’s view that people can go to work to run a business. So when it comes to self-employed people who provide personal services — masseuses, psychiatrists, hairdressers, etc. — they can go to work. Can they work? Could it be considered here that it would be a one-on-one if it were a matter of personal service to enable the work to continue? This has to do with this rocky situation in urban areas, which is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u200	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u201	Mr President! I can assure you that giving this proposal to Parliament was not an easy question. We do not want to impose such restrictions on the fundamental rights of citizens; we do not want to present such restrictions here. But as a government, we have a duty to listen to the health authorities and to the serious concern that has been expressed about this situation. The National Institute for Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health consider that these restrictive measures are necessary to manage the epidemic and ensure the carrying capacity of Finland’s health care. This is a serious message, and the Finnish Government cannot ignore such a message. That is why we have brought this proposal to Parliament, and I trust that Parliament will deal very carefully with this whole. We all hope that the disease situation will improve. Of course, we all hope that the situation will improve and that such powers will never have to be imposed, but we also have an obligation to bring this now, so that we do not get into a crisis first, and then we will bring these. We also need to anticipate that we will not allow the worst to happen to health care in Finland. That's why we brought this here. Then, as far as the health security of borders is concerned, I think this is a very important issue. I fully agree that borders should be made as close as possible. Certainly it will never be possible to get them completely watertight, but as close as possible to the health safety of the borders should be achieved. The British transformation is likely to have gone to European countries at a much earlier stage than we have learned about the existence of this transformation. This was observed at Christmas, but it was born in Britain as early as September, and it is very likely that it has already spread widely across countries, because this situation is now serious with regard to these particular transmutation viruses and in particular with regard to this British transformation. For example, it has plunged our neighbouring country Estonia into one of the world's worst corona colonies. There is a very worrying situation in Estonia. When we look more closely at our neighbours, Russia has been in a difficult situation throughout this pandemic, Sweden has been in a difficult situation throughout this pandemic and now Estonia too is in a very difficult situation. Given that we have such a bad situation in our neighbouring countries and yet Finland has succeeded in our situation not being so bad during this pandemic, surely we can say that there has been some success at the borders. Throughout this pandemic, we have had one of the most stringent border controls in Europe. It has been tightened again in the early part of the year, and for several weeks flights had been completely suspended, for example, in Britain. A lot has also been done. In particular, with regard to the request for a negative test certificate at the borders as an entry tool — that it is sufficient to have a negative test certificate and then to come and go freely — I can now say, in the interests of honesty, that it is not a watertight model. It's a weaker model than what we have in use. First, the negative test result is taken in advance. It is taken in advance and the infection can occur after taking the test. The disease also has incubation time. There is a more secure way to combat the disease so that the test is taken at the end of Finland, but it is not enough either. If we wanted a compact model, it should be accompanied by a quarantine period that is long, or at least a double test model. I'll ask the assembly, are you ready for this? To date, you have explicitly demanded a looser model, a model in which only a negative test certificate should be allowed to come and go, and it is not a watertight model, it does not protect us from these virus variations. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party] Now I ask the assembly: are you genuinely prepared for a health-security model of the borders that should be maintained as far as possible, because this negative test certificate you have requested does not guarantee that these variations that are now, or the variations that will come, will not come because it is not a waterproof model? That is the level of honesty that must be involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u202	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u203	Madam President! In this speech, Prime Minister Marin now wanted to open up this political struggle with the coalition, and he obviously likes them. I would like to say that the Coalition Party has never said that a negative test certificate required in advance would be a magic trick that, when it was laid down, would solve all our problems. Instead, we have been asking for weeks, if not months, that when, in all other countries comparable to Finland, a negative test certificate is required in addition to other solutions in use, so that a foreigner can enter the country, why has this not been introduced in Finland? Prime Minister Marin himself has said in public that this would be a small additional measure, and when that is the case, then still, at 5 p.m. today, we are calling on the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u204	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u205	Mr President! It is good that there is a discussion on the content of what means minimising the risk of new mutations of the corona virus entering Finland. As Mrs Zyskowicz has well described here, it has been our concern that, when we go into such fundamental restrictions on freedom of movement, yes, if the situation is so serious, we must also be able to maximise border security. A negative test certificate is one way — it is a curious thing why it has been so much more difficult in Finland to introduce it than in our neighbours — but in that we certainly agree that it is not a watertight method for all situations. And, yes, in such a serious situation, we must also use these coercive quarantines when there comes people who need to be tested and expected to test the test result. We're gonna have to do this. As far as these citizens are concerned, at least as far as you're concerned. I hope that we will now get out of this pandemic by means of these measures, but I must say that in those countries that have really been able to prevent conversions from entering their territory or from entering the corona, it has generally also been based on the fact that nationals of their own countries have also been subject to quarantine when they return to the country. We have to weigh these, because this is about life and death. That is why we are restricting fundamental rights. If you are not allowed to leave the yard, but then you are free to go from one country to another, these must be considered in a new way. [The President : Minute! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u206	Mr Tavio, and then Minister Kiuru, and then we should go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u207	Madam Speaker! I would also like to point out that there are, of course, alternatives. True Finns have seen that it is most effective to combat viral infections where infections occur. The government's proposal, like the official statements made by HUS and THL, has to a large extent stated that these infections are now mainly taking place in private events and workplaces. As I recall, page 26 of the government proposal contains this listing, and it also states that these occur mainly in private events and, in the alternative, in the workplace. That is why it is appropriate to ask now: could Finns, even without having to, be able to take a tighter break in visiting? In some ways I would like to believe that with a strong recommendation or with these recommendations and restrictions on assembly, and that we could actually achieve it together, and I think that this is what we could focus on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u208	Secretary Kiuru, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u209	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Tavio asked whether he could be dealt with in such a way as to simply appeal to the Finns to stay at home and in close proximity. That is what we have already called for twice, as you will remember: when this corona crisis broke out and now for a new time at Christmas — and it was equally indicative in its effect that the message was received. We are already in a situation where we have a three-week closure, and it is precisely on this appeal that we have tried to deal with this disease situation, but I regret to say to you that, at the moment, these restrictions have not clearly translated our cases into the curve. This braking works, but there is no clear change yet. We are now on such a curve that this will not continue to be good. I have to say to you that restrictions cannot be lifted — even though there has been a great deal of debate in this Chamber as to whether the restrictions could only be lifted over the last week and two weeks. We cannot break down the existing restrictions, but we must increase the restrictions and reduce physical contacts by another 25% in order to have a chance of success. We need the support and assistance of the whole Parliament to ensure that this big picture is passed on to the public as it is, so that people themselves can support the fact that we will succeed in managing this pandemic. That is the support we need especially in this Chamber when we are having this debate. The government hasn't decided there's only one way to go. On the contrary, a wide range of expert work has been carried out, which could be instruments so rapid as to have such a large impact that they could be justified, from the point of view of fundamental rights, as absolutely necessary in this situation. [The President knocks ] But such a ruffion that there would be an incredible number of performances and that this would be done will not affect us so quickly that we can change this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u212	To the Prime Minister, two minutes, and then to the list of speakers. — Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u213	Mr President! I will pick up where Minister Kiuru left off, which is precisely why these restrictive measures are now being taken: We cannot solve this current situation with the health security of borders, but we agree that, yes, the health safety of borders should be as good as possible, and this Finnish model, which has to be tested at the end of Finland and where the regional government agencies have now also imposed mandatory tests on large troops, is very important. But we are not going to solve this situation at the borders, but we are going to solve it within the borders, and that is why this proposal has been put forward. And why have we made such a presentation? I have described earlier that the health authorities have felt that this is necessary, and we must, of course, rely on their assessment in this regard, but of course it is also because we want to get over this situation as quickly as possible. We want summer to be better. We want Finland to have a clear and significant fall in infection rates so that, together with vaccinations and seasonal variation, we can all live our lives in a more normal and secure way, where we can organise events where we can meet friends and live a normal life. It is, of course, the situation we want from the point of view of people's well-being and also of the economy. I have already invited the opposition in that joint debate this week to discuss next week, that is, the week after that, together with the exit plan we have to get out of this situation, and it is good that this debate is also being held together. The government will be discussing it next week, and then we will be discussing it parliamentaryly, all parties together, because I believe we can share the idea that we need to do enough now, so that summer is better and that it is better for all of us, not just for people but also for businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u214	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u215	Mr President! There has never been a curfew in Finland since the wars. Personally, I do not believe that even these curfews or restrictions on outdoor movement will eventually come into force — they will eventually remain at a level of threat. Parliament is therefore now discussing the proposal by Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government to restrict movement outside, the proposal to temporarily restrict freedom of movement and close contact. The Marin government, led by the SDP, the city centre, the Greens and the Left Alliance, is therefore banning or restricting the movement outside at least in the capital region and the Turku region. However, the proposal would allow the government to restrict movement elsewhere in Finland by its own decree. The matter is now in the referral debate today, and it seems that March will be over before this law gets out of Parliament. Next week, at least the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Administrative Committee and the Constitutional Committee will deal with this proposal in the normal order, but Vice-President Eerola has said that Parliament will not hold plenary sessions. So my own assessment is that this worked out in the end. The bet won't go out of the cannon's mouth, and this will eventually be a snout. Thus, according to my own assessment, the proposal will not go into everyday life and will remain a little like the old father's method of rearing, i.e. the level of threat, extortion, bribery – the first two will probably be aimed at the Finnish people and the last one at maintaining the government's internal cohesion. I personally believe that the government is confident that just such a threat to the strictest post-war period would deter people from moving. I'm sure this is how responsible Finns and those quiet and kind people work, but I don't know if they're the ones that the Marin government is planning to do this for. Yesterday, Kirsi Varhila, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, stated that ‘movement restrictions are an indirect means of dealing with domestic parties’. In the context of the review of the Then there is no room for these weddings, parties and others where these infections have occurred So they say there is no other way for the government to intervene in private events. In its own estimate, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy estimates that this alone will cut the turnover of stores in the capital region by around EUR 1 billion per week, i.e. in the planned three weeks the cashier would empty by approximately EUR 3 billion. Personally, I see that a rather weak and ill-costed operation to interfere with the home party in Helsinki suburbs. I am therefore not in favour of this measure in this situation. I think the proposal is unreasonable and unfair. In fact, it was quite crazy that when the government introduced curfews as an example, it was said that Stockmann could not go to buy some stuff but Prisma could do it. Well, today we have heard that Stockmann has started negotiations on its entire workforce of 1200 people. And as an example, the Under-Secretary of State of the Government said that decorations can be bought at the grocery store, but he says they can't be bought on the various floors of Stockmann. Mr President! There has also been some message that going to Alkoo must continue to be ensured, but after the decisions made this week, we should not even go to the gym alone. You could get shoes from Prisma, but not from an entrepreneur-driven stone-foot shop. If you have been able to afford your own cottage, you can go there, but you would be forbidden to book a cabin that can be booked for a week a year. Mr Arhinmäki, when you were just talking about this, how this treats people in different income categories, this is very unfair for those who can afford one week a year to book a rental cottage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u220	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u221	Madam President! This government proposal on mobility restrictions raises much more questions than the information received has provided answers. Even the Minister's speeches are confusing. The first question that comes to mind is whether a significant further restriction of fundamental rights would require a clear deterioration in the situation of infection. This is clearly not the case in the light of the evolution of the March figures. The regional and demographic distribution of infections has changed, but is this sufficient justification for the additional restrictions proposed? In the context of the amendment of the Law on the Rights of Housing, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that pre-emptive preparedness for a problem that has not yet become more acute does not meet the requirement of proportionality in the limitation of fundamental rights. Now, however, the government seems to think that the fact that the situation does not improve justifies the restriction of fundamental rights. This would mean that more fundamental rights can be restricted indefinitely until the situation improves. What this improved situation is, then, has not been defined. The percentages calculated by HUS' learning modeling are now the basis for limiting fundamental rights. Can this be a sufficient basis for restrictions? Madam President! The next question arises as to whether the proposed restrictions are at all possible to achieve the stated objectives. These restrictions make it difficult to see a clear impact on the group gatherings considered to be the most problematic, such as parties and other events. This raises the question of proportionality of the restrictions. Are the proposed restrictions really necessary and, in this situation, the least lacking in fundamental rights? Well, they don't. And have all the other instruments less lacking in fundamental rights been exhausted? No, and we all know that. It is also worrying that the explanatory statement highlights the carrying capacity of medical care, in particular the HUS area. According to THL's website, there were 313 patients in hospital yesterday, 59 of whom were in intensive care. If we are now running out of carrying capacity, we clearly do not have the capacity to respond to a real disaster. It is therefore worth paying particular attention to the fact that the government has thrown billions into all kinds of targets, such as green projects and additional municipal interest subsidies, but there has not been enough money for the capacity of health care and, in particular, adequate staff compensation. Madam President! The assessment of the social impact of restrictions must also take into account all the adverse effects of their implementation. It is difficult to justify the loss of billions to businesses in a matter of weeks, when there is no money for the crisis-resistance of the critical basic functions of society. People are also getting sick and destroyed as a result of restrictive measures. Life, especially for older people or those in a heavy life situation, is becoming increasingly difficult. Children and families are getting sick. The necessary preventive and acute service resources are increasingly lagging behind the need for assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! The alarm clocks of the decision-makers should always ring when it is claimed that there is only one option to solve a problem, such as this government proposal. This bill is written in such a way that, first of all, the desired line of action has been chosen and then all other options are explained out with little or no justification, such as extreme border control, such as quarantine, such as restrictions on movement at night. Apparently, they don't want to use them. The option proposed by the Government, i.e. the proposed restrictions on mobility and close contact, is not acceptable and proportionate in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u222	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u223	Madam President! The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group is very concerned about the serious epidemic situation. Further restrictions are now needed in order to safeguard human health and the carrying capacity of medical care. Now it is important that we all, each of us, reduce physical contacts as much as possible. The better we try to comply with the restrictions, the shorter they are and the less they are needed. The government has prepared a proposal on limiting social contacts, based only on the absolute necessity of restricting mobility. Limiting mobility is an action which is deeply involved in fundamental rights and individual freedoms. Therefore, the fundamental right to mobility can only be restricted as a strictly necessary, proportionate and last resort measure. All these things have to be filled. There are still doubts in the Left Alliance's parliamentary group as to whether the criteria of necessity, fairness and effectiveness required by the law are met. It is up to Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after consultation with experts, to assess whether these very high thresholds are met. It is only after these expert judgements in Parliament that representatives of the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance can take a final position on the necessity of the law. Madam President! In fact, it can be thought that this law is dealt with in two parts: it is an assessment of necessity, proportionality and last position, and then, on the other hand, it is also necessary to assess the articles of this law. Every law has a class perspective, so does this one. In this Parliament, we need to be very careful in assessing how this affects different people, people in different situations. Many laws, and this law in particular, have been drawn up in many respects from the perspective of the life of a person of a Victorian family of my own class, living in a nuclear family based on a Victorian family concept. But society is not just a traditional nuclear family that we know from the Finnish family movies, but today life is much more diverse. If we look at the restricted areas that now seem to be on the way, then of course the central point is Helsinki, where about 40 per cent of people live alone. People also live crampedly. This must be taken into account when assessing the paragraphs in Parliament. In our view, the articles should take into account the fact that more people live alone and family relationships are diverse. This is typical of the large cities in particular, of course, in Helsinki, where any legislation and the restrictions imposed on it apply. The articles of the laws must make it possible to walk in nature — something that has changed now. It cannot limit the movement of people to the vicinity of the place where they live. If you live in a studio in Red Mountain or Kallio, you must have the opportunity to go to Central Park or Mustavuori forests even if you do not own your own car. Madam President! According to the Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance, it should be taken into account that spouses can also live at different addresses and that meeting spouses should also be possible during restrictions. Similarly, families can often live in different addresses. We are also very concerned about the possibility for grandparents to meet their grandchildren safely outside. Homelessness is still a big problem in Finnish society. The situation of the homeless must be taken into account, and every effort must be made to ensure that vulnerable groups do not suffer the most. The Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group considers it necessary that restrictions in the law do not prevent early childhood education, comprehensive school or secondary school participation. Children's right to play together and play outdoors must be safeguarded. You also have to wonder if there can be guidance in this game by adults. Madam President! There are some things here that we will carefully go through in section by section in the parliamentary procedure so that they are appropriate. The enforcement of the law requires a need-to-know process here in Parliament, and if Parliament approves the law, it must also be a necessity test before the Government adopts a possible regulation on the use of the law. The possible introduction of a law would have a significant economic impact, in particular on specialised businesses and service companies and self-employed workers, and hence on employment. The introduction of the law requires financial support for both companies and workers. Our assessment is that effective enforcement of the law is quite difficult. From the point of view of equality and equality, it is extremely important that law enforcement is balanced and does not target any specific groups. Madam President! Finally, the Left Alliance's parliamentary group would like to stress strongly that any adoption of the law must not constitute a precedent. A threshold for such a restriction of fundamental rights is essential, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u224	Congressman Aittakumpu is gone. — Representative Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u225	Mr President! Let me start with what I was talking about in the debate: I therefore find it very special that just when the decision was made here to postpone the elections, based on the THL's calculation exercise that there would be 2,600 to 11,200 contagions in Finland in the elections, the modeling now in this proposal would appear that in mid-May Finland there would be 1600 contagions in the whole country if some restrictions were lifted. There is a huge contradiction here, and this is something that needs to be clarified: there will be no presentations in this house, each of which will be brought in by various models. It is true that, in addition to vaccinations and seasonal variations, this model has taken into account some of the restrictive measures that were not included in the scenario for the election transfer. But I think this is inappropriate and I would like the government to pay attention to the fact that not every performance that comes into this house is made according to a different calculation and scenario. I think this is very special. For these mobility restrictions: The starting point is that everything else should be done first. In fact, in February last year there has been the same debate in this Chamber, and the government said hello from THL that, in fact, border measures are not a good way to prevent the virus. Well, this same idea has obviously come here several times now, because we have been talking about this for a year. The fact is, however, that this is the third wave that has come across borders, and we are still talking about this. I must now say, Prime Minister Marin, that when you made the point here that this preliminary test would deal with the matter, it would not. You know very well that, in order to keep the border, it requires a preliminary test, it requires tests at the border either for everyone or, in a targeted way, for those who come from high-risk countries in particular, and it requires quarantine. In other parts of Europe, for example, there are seven days of quarantine in some countries. And I say to this that no country that has proposed restrictions on movement to its citizens is so bludgeoning in its border operations, but that the border measures have been put in place. The fact is that it doesn't matter how long Finns catch a new virus from the border. And I'm afraid that's the case. You know that perfectly well, even though you deny it here. From there they have come, both these transformation viruses and future transmutation viruses. I sincerely hope that you will take this seriously, because this is also related to the admissibility of this law. If Finns feel that they can come from the border and bring the virus, but they should be home, then this does not work, nor is it because people may not want to follow it. Yes, I find it unfortunate that after this year we are talking about now putting this sort of lockdown when this could have been done a year ago, when we would have been freed from this loose log and we would not be in this situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u236	Prime Minister Marin, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u237	Mr President! From this order of vaccination: The government has therefore jointly stated that we are committed to the vaccination order provided for in the regulation, that people from social and health care staff, for example, who are dealing with covid patients, residents of care homes and staff and people from high-risk groups, i.e. older people and otherwise people from high-risk groups, should be vaccinated in the whole country. They are vaccinated first because they also have the most serious risk of developing a form of disease that poses a serious threat to human health and life. That is what we are holding onto, and that is what we in one government have said. We have also noted that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the THL are preparing a model — and this model has therefore not been agreed, such a proposal has not yet been discussed — how to target the worst epidemic areas in relation to vaccines rather than some other regions. But there is no proposal for this, and such a proposal has not been dealt with. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently considering what could be such an effective way of achieving such targeting. In this context, it is also worth noting that, as we are currently looking at the vaccination figures in the country from different municipalities, we see that a number of people have been vaccinated in different municipalities. In some municipalities more than 20 percent have already been vaccinated, and in the capital region, for example, where the situation is bad, only about 10 percent of people have been vaccinated. This is because the population base of municipalities is different. Other municipalities have more people at risk, for example more social and health care staff relative to the population, and then fewer people have been vaccinated in larger cities with relatively younger people. In other words, this too should be taken into account that we have, at the moment, been vaccinated against a number of people in relation to the population, and from this point of view too, it may be justified to consider the focus of vaccination on the worst epidemic areas. But the model is being sought, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is preparing it, which would be a working way to make such a emphasis. whether it is targeting individual batches of vaccine,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u238	Yeah, and now we're gonna keep doing this. We have a long list and there was a long debate here some time ago, and here came the answer from the Prime Minister to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u239	Madam President! Of course, the debate on the vaccine is important, but I personally do not quite recognise that the question of the vaccine in this proposal, which is, therefore, the draft law on the temporary restriction of freedom of movement and close contact, would be the issue of which the issue of the vaccine would have to be addressed as a matter of substance. Latin exclamation “Origins, Opposite Habits! “has generally been rooted in arcticanos, which marvel at modern customs and theuse of the
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u244	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u245	Madam President! As many people here have thought and wondered, whether they represent the government or the opposition, the main question is: is this necessary? At the same time, the Prime Minister, in his opening speech, already compared this with the fact that we would then neglect the right of citizens to live if this were not done. It must be said, then, that we are all in a similar situation, i.e. wondering whether this is necessary. The last time such drastic measures have been taken during the war period, before that a few hundred years ago, mainly in that direction of South Ostrobothnia — it was just that Kivisaari spoke. We also wonder whether all means have been exhausted. And one more question that comes to mind: are the arguments put forward by the government sufficient? So if health care facilities, the capacity of intensive care and the number of breathing machines are not sufficient, is that a reason to limit mobility, self-determination, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion? So is the Constitution subordinate to the number of ventilators and intensive care facilities? And we still have to consider whether this criterion is sustainable, whether it is a time of war or peace. That's the big questions that our committees are facing. Mr President! As I said earlier, restrictions on freedom of movement cannot be a matter of government or opposition. It cannot be, therefore, that the government here would drive without other alternatives to restricting movement and the opposition would oppose it. In other words, the opposition, together with the government, will have to think very carefully about how to deal with this and what is possible and what is not possible — Mr Arhinmäki did well to reflect on these different aspects. We must have a common picture of the situation as to whether everything is adequate, what can still be done and whether this government proposal meets the objectives that have been set for it. We also know, on the other hand, that the preparation of this law was initially known to a small circle, that is, it was being prepared, and then, at the beginning of the week, we heard how to proceed with this. Now this goes to both the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee, and of course a few other committees will then give an opinion to the Administrative Committee. So if the situation is so bad, then it is worth adjusting the restrictions on movement, but they are not worth introducing unless the situation gets worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u248	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u249	Mr President! Exactly a year ago, when a referral debate was held in this hall late in the evening on the closure of Uusimaa, which was very unusual in the history of Finland, I concentrated on talking about fundamental rights. That's what I'm doing today. We now have a motion on the table that is even more serious in terms of fundamental rights than the closure of Uusimaa. It is quite clear that we are all dealing with corona pandemic with extreme seriousness. This is only demonstrated by the fact that practically all the restrictions put forward by the government have gone through in the Constitutional Committee, provided that the proposals have been carefully prepared. But this debate is not about competition as to which of us is most serious about the pandemic itself. This proposal and its evaluation are primarily about whether it is precisely these chosen means that are the most effective in the fight against the pandemic right now. In such an exceptional social situation, we must be absolutely sure of this. In addition, we need to have comprehensive assessments that the criteria for the necessity, precision and proportionality of restrictive measures are met. It is not enough, therefore, simply to look narrowly at the mobility restriction that is now being presented, but to make a comprehensive assessment of all its effects. What is more, we need a comprehensive assessment of alternative measures: what could have been done before this last step is taken? I personally see that this is precisely what Parliament must now pay particular attention to. Have alternative models been carefully presented and evaluated to reduce contact? This is precisely where I find the reasons for the government's proposal to be disappointingly thin. Mr President! It is an important task for us as parliamentarians to defend fundamental rights and the rule of law to the very last. We must do so, whether or not it will bring great popularity to the people. We must not forget how serious this is when we restrict freedom of movement. Freedom of movement, that is to say the right to move freely within the territory of the State, has been guaranteed by the core human rights and fundamental human rights treaties and our constitution. When we assess the need for mobility restrictions, we must also weigh heavily on the extent to which restrictions can be monitored in order to be genuinely effective. Effectiveness is also linked to the duration of actions. Mr President! The interest crisis is a health crisis, but it is also a huge social crisis. The crisis affects people in various ways, including by socio-economic background, age, family forms, language and professional groups. These are all things that cannot be ignored when the restriction measures are presented. It cannot be that restrictive measures are only designed from the point of view of well-performing middle-class nuclear families. Unfortunately, however, the social aspect of the pandemic is still the one that is too often only made in marginal remarks. However, on the basis of strong empirical evidence, we know that both the pandemic itself and the restrictive measures are hitting those who are already, in principle, in a weak position in this society. Moreover, the pandemic has been dropped from the sled by those who barely stayed inside the safety nets before the pandemic. New groups of displaced persons have also emerged. And, unfortunately, it is often the case that people in the decision-making position may not even imagine what the ark looks like when life is really raging. However, I think that the position of people in fragile situations is precisely the position to be taken when fundamental rights are affected in such a significant way. I am now raising two groups: homeless and victims of intimate partner violence. I think it is very important that these groups are taken into account in the proposal at all. Unfortunately, however, the proposal does not recognise all the relevant issues relating to these phenomena. The proposal is based on the fact that the homeless person is entitled to emergency accommodation services, among other things, but that he should stay mainly in the areas where he normally resides. Running: if the public latrine is the one where the sleeping place is located, during the restrictions, you should only stay in the vicinity of the latrine. Most of the homelessness is not reflected in the statistics. This is the case for young people, for example. Homelessness is a strong stigma that is covered up. Live with relatives or friends, sometimes on the street. Most of these people don't even resort to services. Emergency accommodation is a last resort for young people, often not even that. When the day centres are closed in principle, the situation is really harsh for many. Let me take another example: victims of intimate partner violence. We know that home alarms have become more common during the corona. We also know that violence in close relationships has become widespread worldwide. The police have estimated that restrictions on movement will deepen these problems. Often a shelter is used only as a last resort, if not at that time. Women are the main victims of intimate violence, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u250	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u251	Madam President! The situation in the interest rate epidemic is serious, and health experts under the leadership of the THL and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have also provided quite convincing arguments that Parliament should also take the situation seriously. It is also true that we need strong measures, and if these very strong measures are needed, I should like to say in this context that I believe that this channel of restrictions on movement is better than interference with domestic peace. I myself would consider it even more sensitive as a fundamental right if we were to go, as it were, to touch and invade who is there in the homes and what kind of assembly is there to be present. I would also like to say, in the interests of the government, that this proposal has certainly developed in a step-by-step direction. When we have seen the previous drafts, a few days ago, a draft came along, I think it too has gone for the better. One example is that more than one million lonely people have been taken into account in Finland, who must also have the right to meet their friends outside, one or two friends when they are outdoors, because loneliness is also a bad folk disease; it can lead to major mental health problems and must be taken seriously. In this context, the government is also proposing a mask requirement. Now it has to be said that these recommendations for masks would have worked better if consistent guidance had been given to citizens from the outset in this respect. Even last summer, the ministry was told that masks are not useful and that they may even be more harmful than useful, in other words, the same kind of thinking as Mr Ano Turtiainen put forward here in the early part-session. It has been quite difficult to turn the views of the citizens into a different position since then, and we are talking about the need for a mask at the risk of a fine. Citizens should be commended in Finland for the fact that, as a rule, interest rate restrictions have been scrupulously respected, but now that you enter the area of mobility restrictions, it is particularly deeply concerned with the fundamental freedoms that Finns value. Interest-rate restrictions must also be understandable to citizens and must be fair and proportionate to the different population groups. In fact, the government should now be sensitive to the messages about the citizens’ tolerance to accept restrictions whose reasoning is unclear. So we also need to take into account the growing corona fatigue. Not only are we here in Parliament convinced that these restrictions are necessary, but the citizens must also understand. Unfair measures are easily turned against these restrictive measures and, at worst, foment various conspiracy theories. We have even seen European images of violent demonstrations against corona restrictions. Fortunately, we have not seen such things here in Finland and hopefully we will not see them in the future. In addition to this, the government must also focus very vigorously on ensuring that there is no cross-border spread of possible vaccine-resistant virus variants, which may even be new to one another, while at the same time improving the supply, distribution and preparedness for domestic vaccine production. Then, Mr President, I would like to raise the question of the freedom of religion contained in this motion, which has given me a great deal of feedback and which is an important and sensitive fundamental right and which must not become something in which society is beginning to get used to, as it were. Throughout our history, the churches have played an important role in maintaining the nation’s mental resilience to crisis, and that is why in many countries it has been decided that even during the corona era, there are opportunities for church activities. Evangelical Lutheran congregations, free congregations and revival movements have even acted in accordance with the orders of the authorities. Let me take an example: in addition to online services, the churches of our churches and revivals have arranged very strict security arrangements, multi-meter security intervals and masked communion times, which are of great importance to Christians also in terms of coping with the corona age, and these have been done with six persons at a time. The priest may have held ten suppers during Sunday day, and there the parishioners have taken turns. That is why there has been concern when, even in this motion, it is stated that it would no longer be allowed to go to worship, but only then to have individual meetings of the soul, which would in principle be bilateral occasions. Now I thank the government for the fact that in this very latest version, which came to our attention only yesterday, there has also been mention of communion, baptism or other delivery or devotion in this context, but I really hope that this will still be considered in such a way that these very small-scale, securely arranged communion moments of a few persons will be possible. Let me explain this to you by the fact that religion also has a collective meaning.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u252	Next up, Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u253	Madam President! In order to slow down the spread of the Korona virus and ensure the capacity for intensive care, we Finns must do everything we can. This bill offers more tools for a choice of means if the situation were to turn even worse. These instruments and their scope will now be evaluated by the committees. For a year now, interest-rate measures have required a great deal of effort from all of us and are trying to cope for a while. The proposed restrictive measures have now taken greater account of the diversity of families and the singles from last spring. Corona subsidies have been granted to local government finances and must be spent up to the last cent to support people's ability and well-being. Despite the exceptional situation, the services provided under the Social Welfare Act and their availability must be provided in every municipality. At the same time, we need to ensure that other forms of access to care are not unduly delayed and that there is no red tape to secure income. Madam President! Transformation viruses require specific measures, and the toolbox has been updated in the early part of the year for the Act on infectious diseases. Overstatements must be avoided and, at the same time, basic services must be secured. The municipality cannot put a note on the hatch because of the corona, but we also need to invest in mental health services and support for pupils and families during distance education. A pandemic will be left to the nation's memory of a common trauma. We will recover from that trauma together, and hopefully one of us will repeat our support. The time will come for us to look back on the pandemic. What do we remember about these times? I hope that we will remember the joint actions and the concern for others, the united front that protects one another against the corona virus and the mild phenomena it causes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u254	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u255	Mr President! I have one question: why did the government not take the interest rate situation at the beginning of last year with sufficient seriousness? At that time, Prime Minister Marin said, among other things, how the government leaves the spectacles to others. Do you realize you've made a mistake yet? Perhaps these spectacles, which were made in other countries at the time, could have saved lives, jobs, and entire businesses in Finland. When adequate restrictive measures were not taken a year ago, we are now discussing mobility restrictions — and, worst of all, there is still a flow of corona across the border and its various virus variants. In the worst case scenario, it also makes these restrictions unnecessary. For a year, people and businesses have lived in constant uncertainty, and throughout this time you have not reached the limits of interest. Mobility restrictions are an extremely powerful means of controlling the spread of the virus. Mr Government, both the opposition and the people out there want to hear clear indicators of the conditions under which the regulation on restrictions of movement would be introduced. Similarly, people want to know the conditions under which restrictions would be lifted. There should be an objective to be pursued by the restrictions, a clear framework for people to be able to comply with these restrictions if they are introduced. Information should take place in a clear Finnish language, but unfortunately, Madam Government, you are unable to do so. Even now, entrepreneurs and people are wondering what restrictions or recommendations apply to them at any time. If these restrictions lasted only three weeks, in that time a person could survive without many exceptions, such as soul care or children’s playtime, but my fear is that the government has now prepared them with the idea that restrictions on movement can be used for a long time or several separate times if necessary. It will further increase the uncertainty people are experiencing. Mr President! Despite the massive army of assistants, the government cannot deal with this crisis in such a way as to make it clear to everyone what will happen next. Responsibility is being played; transparency, clarity and accountability are lacking. Similarly, the opposition is not much involved in the preparations, even though this crisis is common. When, ladies and gentlemen, should this law be in force? Is this a rush? If this is urgent, why is there session leave next week? Yes, ministers and parliamentarians must be able to do their job when they need it. Is there a need now, or have you simply wanted to create a view for the people as if the restrictions were already in force at Easter so that people themselves would cancel their plans? To whom, then, will these planned mobility restrictions strike most forcefully? For those who have already followed the restrictions and guidelines and for those small entrepreneurs who have, for example, the trade in stones. If you can't do business in these special stores, for example, one customer at a time, it's the end of a lot of companies. I understand that now we need to get a stop to the shopping malls, religious mass events and home parties, but are these restrictions on movement the only right and possible way? If so, how are these pebble shops and special shops supported? They're allowed to keep their movements open, but the client is not allowed to enter the store. There is no logic here at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u256	Mr. Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u257	President! Many speakers have raised the issue of border security, and I will come back to it myself once again, for news has just come to light that an unidentified virus variant has been discovered in Kemijärvi. However, Prime Minister Marin is constantly repeating how Finland has the most stringent border control in Europe. A direct quote from this week’s news: ‘Boundary security measures targeting future countries have been the mostrequired in the EU as a whole’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u258	Congressman Niikko's gone. — Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u259	Madam President! Every wave of the epidemic has come to Finland across the border. The first wave started a year ago last spring. The trip to Helsinki Airport lasted a long time, and the border leak was not controlled. The summer calmed the situation with the natural course of the disease, but after the new waves started, the border leak to Finland has continued, and it also... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u262	I would say, in fact, that seven minutes is this recommendation that we have, and now it seems that it is going to be a bit long for everyone. — Next, Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u263	Madam President! We have been living in the middle of a coronavirus pandemic for over a year now, and the disease situation is more difficult than ever. The concern about the adequacy of healthcare capacity is serious, and that is why we are now discussing further restrictive measures. When we talk about restricting mobility, we are talking about a really heavy restriction of fundamental rights. Such decisions must always be necessary, final, effective and proportionate, and the threshold must be really high. Health experts have considered new restrictions necessary to protect people’s lives and health. The second is the ability of people to cope, mental health and livelihood, and the economic survival of companies over a period of crisis. As has been said here, this bill does not introduce any restrictions on movement, but requires a Government regulation and a review of the necessity. So the government is preparing for the worst. I really hope that this law does not need to be introduced. In any case, it is now up to Parliament to carefully assess the government's proposal as a whole and whether it is necessary and watertight. It is also important that the whole is consistent with people's sense of justice and that it is communicated in a comprehensive and understandable way. Mr President! The effects of restrictions on businesses in the regions would be severe. According to the Federation of Commerce, they would affect the activities of 3800 specialist stores in the capital region and in the Turku region. These companies employ a total of 15,600 employees. In addition, restrictions would affect the operating conditions of thousands of other service companies. The situation of small-scale service entrepreneurs in particular is quite unreasonable and of great concern. For entrepreneurs in the regions, solutions to income problems need to be prepared quickly and the costs must be compensated. The preparation of the fourth round of cost support has already started at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Last spring, temporary legislation made it easier to lay off workers, thus avoiding redundancies and facilitating the plight of companies. Similar legislation needs to be considered now if mobility restrictions are to be imposed. Mr President! The Korona crisis has hit children and young people particularly severely. I am particularly concerned about those young people who have been studying at a distance since the beginning of December and in universities for over a year. The crisis is reflected in the growing nausea of children and young people with enormous human and financial costs. We must now do everything in our power to ensure that children and young people get access to school and hobbies in a corona-proof way. Support measures for children and young people also need to be further strengthened, and this government proposal also needs to be looked at from the perspective of the well-being of children and young people. We adults now have to take responsibility. Mr President! The way out of this crisis is through vaccination. Vaccination rates must be speeded up by all means. It is also worth speeding up the production of domestic vaccines, even if it does not help with this need. I'm sure this isn't the last pandemic we're facing. Once risk groups throughout Finland have been vaccinated, the vaccination order must also be considered from the point of view of how most effective we are to prevent the spread of the virus and the burden on healthcare capacity. THL has today delivered its opinion on the recommendations of the National Vaccination Expert Group KRAR. It is justified that preparations should be continued on this basis. It is in the interests of Finland as a whole to combat corona more effectively not only through restrictive measures but also through vaccination in those regions where the epidemic is worst. Madam President! There has been a good referral debate here to discuss the parliamentary procedure of the Government proposal. It is important that this whole is now being carefully reviewed by the committees. The details must be carefully looked at and made sure that the restrictions are not unreasonable to anyone. We are faced with a truly exceptional and serious decision. We are making a preliminary decision for the future. It is worrying that the government's proposal does not contain precise criteria such as the incidence of the disease or hospital capacity, but that the introduction of restrictions would be based on an overall assessment. Furthermore, neither the Government’s proposal nor its explanatory statement indicate what would be sufficient development in the region. The proposal must have strong locks on the fact that the restriction of fundamental rights is indeed a precise and last resort when all other means are in place. Madam President! Finally, laws and restrictions alone are not enough to stop the virus. Ultimately, it is about us people and our actions, that we avoid close contact. The best thing would be for this to happen without having to be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u264	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u265	Madam President! Mobility is a fundamental right, and interference with restrictions is an important, huge, serious issue which, of course, as the speaker has pointed out since the second, must be assessed very carefully. With regard to fundamental rights, I would have said that when this epidemic has been over a year, it is important that every one of these new steps, which we take in relation to fundamental rights, is weighed with the same accuracy as the first step in time. We must not get used to the idea that this epidemic as an experience has, as it were, shed some light on the concept of the importance and fundamental rights that we are restricting here. Having said that too, it is clear that it has been necessary to address these fundamental rights, and unfortunately it seems that it may well be that it will continue to be. Infections are at a high level, and the measures taken so far have not yet brought infection down as sharply and clearly as would have been desirable. Today, the latest figures are a somewhat promising signal, but I hope that this policy will not be possible. That is why I think it is justified that such a proposal has been prepared and is then in place in a situation where current restrictions and people's behaviour do not bring it down. However, as many people have already said, such a proposal must be scrambed through this house, in Parliament, with special care. Its necessity and proportionality, these aspects, must be carefully weighed. At the same time, however, it must be noted and borne in mind that if you do not anticipate an exponentially spreading viral disease, you will always be late. This, of course, makes this weighing difficult in relation to the whole assessment of this necessity and proportionality. Nevertheless, due diligence in this weighing, evaluation and so forth is absolutely essential, and the very precise work is expected from this house. If progress is made with these restrictions, if necessary, communication must be crystal clear. It must be clear why these restrictions are as they are and what action they require, and how different exceptions and such exceptions will take place. In this respect, it would help to ensure that the preparation is as transparent and clear as possible, and there has still been some improvement with these measures. It is also justified to consider whether everything possible has been done in a timely manner and with sufficient vigour so far. That is what many people here have said, especially from the opposition. However, it is important to bear in mind that infections cannot be prevented afterwards. This reflection, even if it is justified, should not confuse the question of whether this restriction is now necessary and necessary. And if it is, then it will also be adjusted. Of course, where restrictions are imposed on areas where they are necessary, it is also justified, in the name of effective epidemic management and management of its effects, to target vaccines in so far as the experts recommend it. If these restrictions come into force, it will, of course, be a very serious blow to the economy and businesses in the target regions, and this too should be borne in mind when future regulation and various forms of aid are being prepared. At best, it can happen that we don't need this. Of course, it depends first and foremost on how people behave, how recommendations are followed. But as I said, this hope cannot be too leaned on, and when such pro-active measures are necessary in a proper, proportionate way, then it is justified that this presentation here we now have, and good so. So the difficult times are still going on, and the risk is that they will become more difficult, but I would still like to conclude with the positive view that vaccination is progressing. Every week, information comes from my own circle of acquaintances about how someone received the vaccine. It's really moving, and the way out is there. While the fight against the disease requires proper anticipation, perhaps a certain kind of anticipation would also be needed in considering how we are to create out of it when the vaccine coverage begins to improve and hopefully bring the infection down, and so on. So what is the way out of this, what can we offer to the Finnish people? But it may be that on the way to it there will unfortunately still have to be restrictions on movement. I hope it is not going to happen, but if it is, then I trust that this house has gone through a very precise carnage, so that it will only be done to the extent that it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u266	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u267	Mr President! Many have a long, stressful year, and still need to be able to move a little further. Avoiding contact is important and this is also what this legislation aims to achieve. These epidemics must be brought down, and this must not be done too late, because the effects will be greater when we anticipate them. A weakened disease situation should always be taken into account in time. The good question is, of course, whether there are other legislative instruments which could be more effective in avoiding contacts, so that the adverse effects are less severe, but the effects on the fight against the disease would be similar. In my opinion, the epidemic must be contained in an impressive way, above all. At the same time, the Government's overall strategy to combat it must be constantly updated and its monitoring must be effective. All information must be transparent. This has not been achieved all along the way. I would like to thank Minister Kiuru for the energy with which he has, in many difficult situations, carried forward the difficult restrictions which are not easy at all and which also cause opposition, but which have proved to be quite the right way forward, because we have done well to combat this epidemic. There are a few things that I would like to see – and we have been raising these for a long time – to be improved: Strategic communication on the seriousness of this situation could be more comprehensive. Communication is not that the THL website reads something and people have to go there to get that information. Communication should be comprehensive because people are constantly asking the same questions or there are new questions as to whether it is now necessary to combat the disease by such heavy means or by any means, when we still have a few more intensive care facilities. People need to understand those reasons and explanations. When not everyone is watching TV news and people under the age of 30 are using quite a bit of other media channels, we should have that message on every channel so that we reach as many people as possible. The euro invested in this strategic communication will certainly pay for itself. I hope that now, after a year, this communication will be seen more comprehensively. On top of that, it has sometimes seemed rather unfair in terms of livelihoods that certain industries may have been severely restricted, but then in some sectors the disease situation has not been sufficiently addressed. I hope that there will also be corrections to this, so that the various supply chains from industry or construction sites can actually be stopped. It cannot be that we can stop the cultural sector for a year, but we cannot stop construction sites even for a week. It cannot be that, legislation does not work in such a way that only other livelihoods can be restricted. In addition to this, I would also like to see clarity in terms of the restrictions on assembly and communication, and in a certain way they could have been even more stringent. The use of masks has now finally become more widespread, and this is what we have in the proposal. I believe it would be very important here too that it should be proactive, and not so that, when there are strict restrictions on movement, then there is a need for masks. I also think it would be very important for communication about the benefits of masking to be up-to-date. I would also like to think about mass screenings that have been used in some countries. Knowledge-based decision-making is difficult if information is not collected and opened. Indeed, it is vital that we receive the best possible information, especially from sources of infection. It was read today that one of the challenges of this Koronavilku is that it does not tell what day the infection has come. This has, of course, been known before, but for some reason no changes have been made to this. Financially, the benefits of such changes should be calculated and considered. I am also talking about these other means, because this legislation, which is now at hand, is an exceptionally tough legislative package, and it would therefore be very important for us to have more proactive measures outside of this legislation if this came into force. That is why I was surprised and was disappointed that, when this package was already being prepared, there were still messages that there was no trace in the schools. If it is not made to work in some cities, it is also a matter for the government. If necessary, then it is a legislative task: to set a time limit on how quickly it is to be reported in classes, for example. Now we have had quite unnecessary transmission chains because in some cities this tracking has not worked and has not kept up. A lot of trackers have been hired, but then, at the same time, the process is so complicated that teachers, for example, are not allowed to tell the class that it was infected there. Then we expect its epidemiological unit to act, but of course every such operator is really congested. I believe that this is where cooperation between the capital region and the state would be really central, and hopefully there will also be action in the municipalities to send out a message when something does not work and to find out why it does not work. But it cannot be said, as I have tried to clarify here, that this is such an operational issue that it is not the responsibility of the government, but the responsibility of the municipalities. No, it's the government's responsibility if we don't have a trace. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u268	Congressman Lindén's gone. — Mr Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u269	Mr President! The disease situation remains serious in the worst affected regions. Of course, there seems to be some small signs of the worst peak of disease here in the capital region. However, it is still too early to say that we would already be on the better side. Parliament is now discussing a government proposal aimed at preventing contacts and further infections and thus preventing the need for and overloading hospital care. It is important that a lot of critical speeches have been heard in this Chamber today, not only by the opposition but also by representatives of the government parties, and that there is a desire to deal with this motion very carefully. This is perhaps the most important proposal of our time of peace, which restricts many fundamental human rights. It is also important that ministers, especially Minister Ohio, have also stressed to the public that the conditions of necessity must also be met before the government adopts a regulation which will possibly introduce this proposal in due course. It is important that this be said out loud. I would also like to say out loud that next week's parliamentary session will not slow down this bill, but can even speed it up. The committees will be sitting next week and discussing the proposal, and when there are no plenary sessions, the committees will also be able, if necessary, to discuss the proposal in the afternoons, which would otherwise not be possible during the normal week. I hope that all the Members of Parliament have this mistaken impression that Parliament's session would slow down the process of examining the proposal, will be corrected. Mr President! The Government announced this presentation it prepared on Wednesday evening in cooperation with other ministries. In the past, however, the Prime Minister’s Office had withheld working documents on restrictions of movement. This decision has also been criticised by legal scholars. The transparency of the preparation will increase confidence that the proposal has assessed all possible options and weighed the need for this very method of limitation. The aim of the proposal is to limit close contact and therefore infection, and the objective is correct, but whether the method proposed in this proposal is justified for restrictions is now being assessed by Parliament. The consideration of fundamental rights has also been considered in public since the presentation of the proposal. Today in the Evening Sanomat, constitutional expert, Dr. Pauli Rautiainen, says: “State problems have been alleged to exist where they are not necessary. It has been raised that peace at home would be a problem and that is why we could not regulate matters relating to the private space. If we look closely at Section 58 of the Act on Disease Control, which regulates public gatherings and gatherings, the section includes housing. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has thus allowed certain types of home-to-home intervention in the fight against infectious disease already in 2016.’ According to Rautiainen, the development of Article 58 of the Act on communicable diseases should now be examined. This would be a more elegant way to intervene in private parties, he said, and this proposal does not indicate why such a path has not been chosen. ‘The main problem of the performance is the lack of flexibility, efforts According to Rautiainen, when prohibiting public events, the Regional Administrative Agency could also take a decision on private events. If normal police action were to be taken to control this ban on private events created by the Act on Disease Control, this arrangement could be built up, he said. He also says. ‘Isn’t it more simple to start, as is generally the case in Europe, with the introduction This would require impact assessments which are not included in the draft. Then there will also be the question of how to tackle the impact on vulnerable groups, such as children and young people, and that would require an overall impact assessment, which is now lacking in this government proposal." There is certainly no disagreement or ambiguity in this society, or even in this House, that it is not justified to introduce even more stringent restrictive measures in society to limit contact, especially in those areas where the epidemic has continued to worsen. The question is, however, that the measures must be properly dimensioned in relation to the desired benefits and their impact. Mr President! This proposal may also be considered to have other significant shortcomings. The evaluation of alternative measures remains very light in the proposal. Various measures are listed, but there are no proper assessments or calculations of their impact. It repeats the phrase: ‘The necessary effectiveness is achieved alone. “ The proposal lacks any calculation exercise as to what kind of contact-reducing effect it would be possible to achieve by combining other means. How such measures, as it were, relate to the effect of restrictions on movement is very relevant. In addition, the rejection of other measures is justified by the fact that each individual regulation would be slow. This cannot be regarded as a valid argument. The government has had time to prepare the necessary measures, for example with regard to border control, for a full year. Mobility restrictions are measures that are severely lacking in fundamental human rights and must therefore be a genuinely last resort. This motion for a restriction on movement also leaves much scope for interpretation. Mr President! I believe that we Finns now need empowering speech, hope for the future. “Why do we have to believe that it helps? Why are we doing that? Why should everyone participate?” This was said today by Aamulehti’s columnist, and he also stated that ‘all the common goal is not the ability of health care’. I hope that we will soon find out about the measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u270	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u271	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Timely regulation of such measures in relation to the corona epidemic is not easy, as the Prime Minister also stated in his presentation. On the one hand, we cannot impose significant restrictions on fundamental rights in the interests of certainty, but on the other hand, we must not be late either, so that the proposed measures do not work in the desired way to control and control the virus. I personally think that this government proposal is a sort of reservation, because the actual implementation of the proposal will take place after the bill has been passed by a Government decree, and so I think that this proposal has now come out of this Parliament with whatever content, and in this context and at the moment I believe that there is a legitimate reason for this kind of preparation, although I am sure that we all hope that the development of the epidemic in the near future and in the near future will be such that there will be no need to impose the harsh restrictions here. As I have already said in my reply to the debate, I shall end my position on this motion after the debate in committee. I am absolutely convinced that the many questions raised in this debate will be answered during the course of this debate, and I am absolutely convinced that this proposal will change during the parliamentary debate. Above all, I look forward to answering the very fundamental question as to whether there would be other, less restrictive measures against fundamental rights, which would, however, be sufficient at this stage. There have been a lot of details in this debate that require careful consideration and, of course, a whole series of them have been raised in the public debate. But the fundamental question is whether there would be other measures that would be less interference in fundamental human rights but would be sufficient at this stage. In this regard, it must be said, as Mr Multala also said, that the government's proposal, which is very thorough, almost 100 pages, is very thin in this regard. With fast reading, I found two points that actually assess the adequacy of other measures. From page 51, there are five paragraphs — five of them — under the heading ‘Option and their impact’this is assessed. On the second paragraph’s missingpage82,in whichthe ‘proportionality and I admit that I read this quite quickly, but if there are other points here that give a more thorough assessment of how any other restrictive measures, which are less lacking in fundamental rights, could succeed in achieving the objectives set out in this proposal, I hope that someone in this debate or later will show them. And this is an essential question. Could more targeted restrictions be made? For example, could it be thought that these outdoor restrictions would only apply at night? Is there any way that they could be more focused on this partying, shopping centers and other things that are meant to be here? President! In short, a few more details: This proposal introduces a mask obligation for those areas for which these restrictive measures would enter into force. Why only those areas? For example, the famous case where the sneezing person on the bus without mask caused a chain of infection, which resulted in dozens of people getting sick, did not happen in Helsinki or Turku, but, as I recall, it happened in the direction of Savonlinna. Why is the mask obligation not applicable in all areas at the point of acceleration or spread? This is a question that I hope will be raised in the parliamentary debate. The second issue I am not going to go into very thoroughly is the question of border measures and, above all, the negative test certificate required in advance. No one in this Chamber thinks that it is a magic trick that counts, but, along with other restrictive measures, including other border-limiting measures, I personally think that such a measure would be appropriate, especially at a time when the number of passengers is increasing. It has now been promised, on the basis of a statement by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that such an arrangement will come, not as a new proposal, but as an administrative solution of some kind, as I understand it. I am not going to the issue of fundamental rights or Schengen, but I am simply saying that I do not understand what a restriction on fundamental rights is at hand if a foreigner is required to come to Finland with a negative test certificate. And I do not understand that if there is any obstacle to this, as the Helsinki Sanomat editorial said a few days ago, how is it possible that in other Schengen countries the Schengen Agreement has not been an obstacle because it has introduced such a thing? Madam Speaker! That's another thing. The Council of Presidents proposes that this issue be referred to the Administrative Committee for the report, which would then receive opinions from, among other things, the Constitutional Committee and the Social Affairs and Health Committee. I don't understand this performance. How could the Administrative Committee be the right committee to draw up a report on this matter, in which it is the committee's most essential task to consider whether this proposal is necessary and appropriate? Well, from what point of view? Well, from the point of view of combating this epidemic. Is it a kind of bread for the Administrative Committee? Is it not the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which evaluates this epidemic situation and assesses the need and appropriateness of the present proposal to manage this epidemic situation? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is doing a very important job. From a legal point of view, it will assess whether this is necessary, whether this is proportionate and, above all, whether it is a last resort, i.e. whether there are other measures which restrict fundamental rights less. But what makes the Administrative Committee the right committee? — Mr President, I have to go a little over time. — What makes the Administrative Committee the right committee to assess whether this proposal is necessary and appropriate in view of this epidemic situation? That is what the committees are doing. Is the presentation necessary and appropriate? I do not understand this proposal from the Council of Presidents, Madam President, I do not understand at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u276	Okay, thank you. Just in case. — Then, Mr Tanus is absent, Mr Könttä is absent. — Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u277	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Zyskowicz's suggestion that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should be the Committee on Budgets on this matter. I would add to that among the committees of opinion what Mr Zyskowicz has just listed, including the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is dealing with this issue. As I said earlier in my debate, I am rather sceptical about this law because it seems to me to be fundamentally oversized, but, as I said, after the committee discussions, I will take my final position. I believe that all the interest-rate measures that have been taken so far should be judged very critically: what has been achieved and what has been of benefit to them. For example, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, when we have dealt with these barriers, it is very difficult to obtain information on how these restrictive measures have worked in different types of restaurants, and in that sense it has been very questionable to place similar restrictions on, for example, cafes or karaoke bars. That doesn't make much sense. Mr President! Representative Laiho raised this police issue earlier that the police would then follow whether a person was going to a flower shop or to a supermarket. It seems somewhat illogical to think how obedient Finns generally are to obey the rules, and also from the point of view of the great shortage of police officers in this country. There are far too few of them to monitor the things they need to monitor anyway. If we are talking about these actions, then there has also been a number of references here to border action. - I'm sorry, it's hard for me to concentrate when we're talking. [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov :RepresentatorsZyskowicz and Multala, the speaker is having difficulty concentrating. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u280	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u281	Mr President! The interest situation is serious. It's clear. More and more stringent measures are needed quickly. I think we have a reasonable consensus on that. It is a question of what means are chosen. The Government's proposal must be carefully weighed in the parliamentary procedure. When Prime Minister Marin justifies restrictions on movement, he talks a lot about timeliness, for example this week at Yle’s A-studio. I would be interested to know when the Prime Minister thinks it is the right time to put mandatory border testing and demand for negative test results at the borders in a comprehensive manner. Although this is the most fundamental task of the state, i.e. securing its own borders in this case in the form of care for health safety, the government has spent a year — that is, a year. The Assembly believes that everything else must be done before restrictions on movement. It is impossible for Finns to understand that mandatory border testing is still not in place and passengers are not required to have a negative test certificate. We are now introducing restrictions on movement, which are seriously lacking in the fundamental rights of citizens. It is such a powerful means that it must be a last resort. The question is: why have not all the other means in which there is already a delay, such as a comprehensive requirement for mandatory limit testing and negative test results, the whole country's masks, restrictions on the number of customers in trade, stricter restrictions on meetings and so on? The government reiterates that none of these alone will resolve the situation. It is not a matter of deciding on its own, but has these means already been used together and in a timely manner? No, it's not. Would we be in this disease situation if the health safety of the borders had been put in place in good time? Mr President! Since last spring, we have been calling for action at the borders. The Government has promised time and again to put the matter in order, but there is still no requirement for a negative test result at the borders and compulsory testing is not valid throughout Finland. Mr President! The Government's proposal under discussion estimates a considerable number of other, alternative measures to achieve our common objectives. Furthermore, the government proposal before us is complex and difficult to implement. As I said, the whole and its details must be carefully weighed in Parliament's deliberations. At the same time as this proposal is now being debated in Parliament, the Assembly believes that other means must be put in place at long last: the whole country's masks, border security, stricter assembly restrictions, the continuation of all existing restrictions. It now seems that the government is not moving forward on all these issues, but only by means of a motion for restrictions on movement. In any event, the Assembly believes that these other measures should be prepared. Is this what the government does? Mr President! It is impossible for Finns to understand how the government has been involved in ensuring the health safety of borders. It is absolutely essential to succeed in combating possible new virus variants that may not be able to work with vaccines in Finland. The virus has come to Finland with passengers, new variants are likely to come to Finland with passengers. New variants are born in the world and are often more dangerous than the original. The length of the borders thus reduces infection and plays a key role in the fight against new virus variants. The government has been rounding and rounding this up for months now, promises have been made and responsibilities have been circumvented. When will the government take care of the health security of the borders? Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that I support Mr Zyskowicz's justified motion a moment ago that this government proposal be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that is to say that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is the committee on the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u282	Congressman Kimmo Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u283	Mr President! We have had a very thorough debate today on an exceptionally large issue, namely the restrictions on freedom of movement, the temporary restriction measures resulting from the corona virus and its non-proliferation. I think that this debate has been a good one, and this has shown up these important points that exist here. Firstly, of course, the Finnish Government has taken these matters seriously. Mr Vikman here just stated a moment ago that this vatulphation has been the government’s practice for a year — to use such a term. Perhaps this is the way I could say that we have been waging the whole world for a year with this corona virus, which is a health risk to all mankind in many ways. A year ago, no government has known what we know today, including the measurement of this risk. It's been a bit of vatulphating the whole time when we're looking for the right line. A year ago we had no knowledge of the transgenic viruses, a year ago we had no knowledge of the vaccines either. The situation is changing all the time, and the government, of course, will have to align itself with this approach. In any case, the situation is clear now that the corona crisis in Finland is currently at its most acute stage, which has taken place throughout this year, and that is why such drastic measures as restricting freedom of movement now have to be seriously considered. The government has considered it on its own side and is now presenting this matter to Parliament. Here we have to make this assessment of necessity and of last justification. It's at committee level. I think Mr Zyskowicz has made an important point here. I myself have to ask myself why the Administrative Committee should be the Committee on Budgets in this context. When we have to assess this fight against the virus, the restrictive measures and their necessity, then of course we must have a starting point for understanding its epidemiological situation, and then the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is genuinely the committee that should make the substance assessment of what this scale is and how these inescapables and necessities and also proportionality on the scale of these measures will be realised here. The Administrative Committee will look at it from one angle, but it seems a little strange that it is the report committee here. In some ways I am inclined to understand Mr Zyskowicz's view, which was raised here. The second point that Mr Ovaska has already made here is that, when this issue is being discussed and when the scale is exceptionally large, it is an exceptionally large restriction of fundamental rights, I would like to see the approach maintained here, as Mr Zyskowicz has pointed out in his own speeches today, that he recognizes the need for these measures and also the government's sincere desire to do its best, and the opposition, at least to a large extent, has supported the government's action so far. This is a common crisis, a common fiddler that we have among ourselves, and when we go to such fundamental limits to restrict fundamental rights, fundamental freedoms for citizens, it would be wonderful and valuable for the government and the opposition, together, to find the way in which this is to be resolved. This is not a party political issue at all, nor should it be a party policy, but it should be seen as a common threat and crisis situation. In that respect, I would also like to look at the point of view of finding that common note with the opposition as far as possible, and that is what we must do in Parliament at this stage of the committee's deliberations, and hopefully there will be an agreement there. Mr Kauma, in his own speech, went through the deviations that are being made to these limits. After all, there is a long list that I went through here today, the Prime Minister, about the issues and groups of people who would not be subject to these restrictive measures, or where freedom of movement would exist. It is a long list, and I am absolutely convinced that there are many problems that Parliament is dealing with, including going to the cottages. Does it have to be owned, can it be a rented cottage, can it be a relative-owned cottage and so on? There are many stumbling blocks here, and I am absolutely convinced that the committee will not be able to cover up all these problems, but that everyday life will prove to be a source of difficulty. However, Mr President, I would like to make one more point here, and this is about enabling business. The starting point is that this movement is allowed to run your own business. I am thinking first of all of these smallest self-employed people; we are often talking about these pebbles, and that may also be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u286	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u287	Mr President! This proposal has not been easy for the government or the government parties. Nevertheless, I hope, as many people in this Chamber have already done today, that the debate will not turn to the opposition-government structure, but will maintain a solution-oriented, common approach. Thank you to the assembly for coming to the debate on this corner. By this I do not mean that the proposal cannot and must not be called into question, looked for improvements and also suggest and demand the further development of other measures, if such real proposals are in the pocket. There is experience in other parts of Europe in terms of mobility restrictions or, to put it better, in terms of restricting encounters. The interference with fundamental rights must always be behind a high threshold. The need for justification must be firm and the benefits of reducing infection must be clear. The proportionality of the package must also be assessed. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the other committees will consult and evaluate experts before the decision of Parliament. I, too, see the soundness of its main responsibility for the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Health authorities have been quite persistent in their message and have been convinced of the worsening scenarios of the disease situation and the possibility of rapidly falling into an unsustainable situation with regard to the capacity of intensive care. Decisions still need to be based on expert knowledge, but also on the question of whether the capacity for intensive care can be increased and thus avoided as a result of serious access to fundamental rights. If restrictions are made, they should be those that target the situations where infections are known to occur most. Other restrictions on normal everyday life should be avoided. On the other hand, the guidelines should be so clear and consistent as to respond to people's sense of justice that they are easy to follow and control and are mutually acceptable. The fact that all the information and arguments are transparent also increases acceptance. The duration must be linked to the necessity and the end of the restrictions as soon as there is no need. This is the case: restriction measures will not even be put into effect if the necessity is not met. The definition of necessity through several factors, without limit values, is indeed a difficult whole. The people, services and businesses affected by the restrictions are the ones who are the winners, on the other hand, if they succeed, hopefully all of us. Loss must be compensated and supported in these areas, both for companies and for actors of a wide variety, such as cultural services and public transport. There are many surprising activities in difficulty, such as recycling centres and organisations' flea markets, which serve as major support workers. Special attention should be paid to young people who have been the longest in distance education in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and in Varsinais-Suomi and have lived in everyday life, where contacts with friends and hobbies have been minimum. Education, education and the well-being of children and young people need reconstruction funding for municipalities in the region. Out of the order of vaccination: It is good that the government now has the readiness, according to the recommendations of the National Vaccination Expert Group (KRAR), to target vaccinations after agreed risk groups and elderly vaccinations in precisely the most acute epidemic areas, in order to curb and limit the spread of transmission chains to the rest of the country. There is no point in building this confrontation. As it is hoped that children and young people will be able to return to contact education as soon as possible, I think it is sensible that teachers and early-school educators should also be raised in the vaccination order immediately after the risk groups in the affected areas in order to minimise the risk of infection and to ensure that schooling is secured. In a difficult situation, humor often helps, and it can be easier to look at faults with it. Humor has been made in recent days about the fact that the SDP-led government lifts the rights of cottage owners by the tenants, or about the fact that the need for friends and friends to live alone in other parts of Europe is better recognised and our needs are more closely linked to the relationship. Despite humour, these things are real and serious and it is good that the committees look at them. In the case of borders: In practice, the test certificates are already requested at the border. Similarly, airlines require test certificates. Tests will be conducted at the border by those who do not have certificates. I understand that the need for test certificates can be supported, it is a good proposal, but I would like to ask what a practical change would be in terms of the disease statistics and the number of infections now, if this statement by the openings were correct in this respect. In practice, further action at the borders would remain to be taken to add another test and to put those quarantine days in between or establish quarantine facilities where a long two-week quarantine period would be possible. The impact of these measures needs to be assessed, but also how they might work, for example, in the truck sector. In order for the restrictions to be as short as possible, the situation again requires that we all, in particular, limit the contact within to a minimum and the careful use of masks even before the obligation is imposed, and the government must also be subject to a prompt examination and preparation of all other possible effective measures. It must be a last resort to tackling fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u288	Congressman Pelkonen is gone. Congressman Purra gone. — Representative Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u289	Mr President! We are dealing with the Government's proposal for 39 temporary restrictions on freedom of movement and close contact. Already in the spring of 2020 Finland introduced extensive interest rate closure measures and, among other things, temporarily isolated the region of Uusimaa. The government has had a year in which to take interest rates so that the motion for a restriction on movement which is being presented here today does not need to be dealt with. There has been time to deal with temporary emergency legislation at the level of securing the external borders and, if nothing else, the entry into the country of conversion viruses of British, Brazilian and South African origin would have been prevented. If you'd listened to us, it would be fine. Now these viruses have had red carpets and fanfares playing as a welcome at every single border. You have made this possible by your inaction. The government is proposing restrictions on movement because of the transformation viruses. Prime Minister Marin, they are being shoveled into Finland every day because you have not given up your ear to the proposals for solutions. If you had, it would have been possible to prevent the introduction of the transmutation virus. Mr President! The limits have not been caught and the testing has not been carried out, and the government blames the regional government authorities. As a matter of urgency, you yourself have made sure, for example, that the legislation on work permits for illegal residents who have received negative asylum decisions in the fields was in order. There was a time for this absurdity despite the corona and the potential result of the transformation viruses. It reminds me that since border controls have not been brought into order despite our calls, is your concern, the government, including the fact that when border controls work, you cannot go back and forth with our taxpayers' money on holiday freely. Mr President! Much of the people are beginning to get tired of this ploying way of doing things and communicating about them, and they have rightly raised their voices. The government should also listen seriously to that voice. Based on hundreds of feedback, many employees and entrepreneurs plan to put their gloves on the table and give in completely. This is terrible news and terrible reading. Has not this demarcation government, supported by the Green Left, already bled the people and our entrepreneurs enough? You underestimate the people. A Finnish can do the right thing without scratching his fundamental rights. In my opinion, mobility restrictions are a completely excessive measure. The restrictions will hit the small business community again. You have not kept your promises to support entrepreneurs — mere talk and charity. Now you are preventing customers from moving to the services of small entrepreneurs. With this, you will destroy people's livelihoods and, at the same time, the lives of thousands of families. It's been more important to you, and it's better to shine in the media and among your supporters. All of your explanations have been like the movement of lips in the wind, and no real effective measures have been taken to prevent, for example, the introduction of transgenic viruses. The fall in last summer’s infections was due to the fact that the people finally isolated themselves. There was no need for a law on temporary restrictions on freedom of movement and close contact, certainly not required. Mr President! Our young people are not feeling well, and you, the good government, when your presentation comes to pass, will increase feeling sick and distress by closing down opportunities for exercise and hobbies. However, you are not in a position to ensure that the growing need for mental health services for young people is taken care of prematurely. No, you have not put any effort into this and, unfortunately, it is going to strike back. You haven't handled the therapy guarantee, nothing. What's more important to you is to close down the Stonefoot businesses, sports halls, hobby facilities. Well, big central stores can do it at the same time. Domestic Reids can buy from Prisma but not from the stone-foot shop, as this would be denied by restrictions on movement. Your performance is absurd. Mr President! Government, immediately take care of the work you have failed to do seriously: the border control is in order. This virus has originally come in from the borders. According to current information, there's a transmutation virus out there, and you haven't done anything about it. This is if I think something is irresponsible. I don't want to impose any restrictions on movement. I don't accept any coercion. Finnish citizens have brains that they can use themselves. There is no need for a separate law on temporary restrictions on freedom of movement and close contact. Health and strength for the Finnish people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u290	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u291	Mr President! We are dealing with the motion for a temporary restriction on freedom of movement. In fact, there is not much in this proposal that normal reason cannot actually handle. People could do all of these things largely using the caution that has long been desired: to keep distances, to wear masks, to wash hands and to move around in crowds only when necessary and necessary. We seem to be living in a situation where the government has wanted to introduce such tougher restrictions, if any, in the event of such a situation. Well, it is the responsibility of Parliament at this point to ensure that the law is necessary, precise and possible to implement. This issue will be discussed in several committees for the next week, and I hope that we will be able to modify this proposal so that it would be a pleasure for the whole of Parliament. Regardless of the final form of this proposal, the kind of legislation it will become, the virus has made the lives of Finns really difficult, and it would be very much to hope that there would be no need to use restrictions that would make the lives of Finns even more difficult. We're already suffering from a syndrome associated with loneliness. Happy old age today is an even more distant concept than it was, for example, ten years ago. Mental health problems today are perhaps the main cause of disability pension. In Finnish society, we have a lot of chronic issues that need treatment. Under no circumstances will this virus and this crisis and any restrictions be made easier. That is why it is quite reasonable at this point, and even far before such restrictions can be imposed, that citizens should now hold onto the relationship, keep the masks indoors, do not visit each other's homes unless absolutely necessary, but at the same time maintain social, good communication by telephone with their own families, make sure that the elderly continue to receive warmth and care from them. All this is still possible. At this point we can turn this curve down ourselves if we work together and stick to the usual rules of common sense or city sense. We Finns need each other right now perhaps more than in a long time, tens and tens of years. We must be able to listen empathically to each other, to be present in each other’s lives. Right now, we're needed for each other. I believe that perhaps as many as 80 per cent of Finns will survive this epidemic in one way or another, but the 20 per cent will become even more unequal and live an even more difficult life than ever before in their own lives. And this society is not a well-being society unless this 80% is already doing its utmost to raise this 20% and make them equal to themselves. This requires a great deal of work on our part. I really hope that we will be able to deal with this law in peace here in Parliament and that at the time when we feel that it has the necessary tension, we will vote through it together and encourage all Finns on our behalf to adhere to the common rules of the game. Perhaps the last hope in this speech is that this Parliament's desk, which I am talking about now, is so serious a desk and so valuable that I would like to see that there is always a fact to be said about this and always the truth and that there is concern that politics does not take precedence over the everyday lives and lives of ordinary Finnish people, but that we politicians can now and in this moment repeat in the arguments the sense that we can build our own arguments constructively forward, asking respectful questions so that we can get ahead of this crisis and increase the confidence of Finnish decision-makers in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u292	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u293	Madam President! It is clear that measures to limit the interest rate are needed. In the capital region and Turku in particular, the situation is such that there is a need to further reduce and limit the number of meetings. Therefore, it would seem somewhat proportional to the need for assembly restrictions instead of restrictions on movement, and the government's proposal for a law on temporary restrictions on freedom of movement and close contact thus seems confusing and disproportionate. First of all, I would like to comment on which committee this should come to: I agree with Mrs Zyskowicz that the Administrative Committee does not seem to be the right committee. I myself am the vice-president of the committee, and perhaps that is why I feel that I also know what the themes in the committee are and what we are dealing with. Of course, police and police resources and control and the monitoring of this law and municipal affairs are the responsibility of the Administrative Committee, but I see that, in particular, this should be considered precisely as to whether this is the way we are going to proceed this spring, and that assessment, in addition to the assessment made by the Constitutional Committee, will include the disease situation and the health situation at the moment. Mr President! Now to this border issue: The explanatory statement to this government's proposal states the fight against cross-border transmission, and it is true that the government has taken decisions this year to close these various border crossing points and restrict traffic. I calculated that those decisions alone have been taken more than 20 times this year. It is clear that, once they have been updated, it must have been necessary to update them, but it is also clear that it is no longer clear what is being done at the borders there at the moment. Post-entry testing and quarantine of passengers arriving from high-risk countries has been recommended and the use of masks has also been recommended. But the proof of the pre-travel negative corona tests has only been recommended for those arriving in Finland since autumn 20. For example, some airlines have introduced these, but other European countries have introduced this negative test result as a requirement for entry. When we talk about border traffic and its limitations, it is clear that when people are stopped and examined at the border and see how they cross the border, it is enough that we have a strict border control, but whether the virus gets into the country is not enough to have a strict border control system, but rather to make that pre-requisite. It is quite different that testing is carried out afterwards here in Finland than requiring that prior test certificate, and this is also a different matter for the resources of our society: When we require the advance certificate, then the person who wants to come to Finland will take the test on his own account in the country where he leaves. But the fact that we have carried out that test here since then, that is to say, we carry out these health checks and then impose or in connection with the corona tests, binds our society's resources, and that is also quite different from requiring that preliminary test in advance. I'd have to get this fixed. Similarly, the assembly has argued that facial masks in public spaces and indoors should be made necessary, mandatory. Mr President! In Helsingin Sanomat Jussi Pullinen wrote today: ‘The decisions of the Board of Directors, which have not been authorised,are prohibited. The alternative would have been a road which would not have been allowed but prohibited: closed shops, restricted shopping centres, reduced traffic, further restricted gatherings.’ I think this was really well crystallized from Pullinen. Now the government has chosen the path in which clear and precise legislation is needed. In order for people to understand now that the second year of the corona has already begun, what is expected of them and what is forbidden, guidance and clarity were needed, and now this government proposal only raises more questions without answers. Mr President, is it five or seven? [The President : Seven. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u296	Congressman Räsänen is gone. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u297	Madam President! Now that we are discussing temporary restrictions on freedom of movement and close contact, I would also like to bring up personal experience. Koronapandemia has been prolonged and, as a result, we have all been found to be tired among people, to be tired in observing restrictions and to question the need for them. Korona is a detestable virus in that it treats people very unequally. I personally know people who have had very mild symptoms of corona infection or who have been asymptomatic throughout the period of infection — I know many of them — but I also know a number of people who have been very seriously ill. I want to tell you about someone I heard the news about last week. The daughters of one of my friends were helping a friend move, and the daughters unfortunately got a corona infection at home, and then the daughters infected the father and mother in the family. The girls and the wife of this friend of mine were left with the symptoms of the flu, nothing serious. However, a week later my friend was hospitalized, and very soon he also had to undergo intensified treatment. Unfortunately, the virus made it all the way to the lungs. The lungs eventually lost their ability to function. Even the respirator stopped working, and my friend passed away. I thought he only had 62 years of age, and he was a very fit and completely healthy man. This personal tragedy of my friend made me wonder what kind of roulette this corona infection really is. For one, it can be very fatal and for the other, it can barely be autumn flu. This was also evident when I asked my own acquaintance yesterday. I have a private Facebook account with a lot of friends, and I asked them what kind of experience you have with this disease. Well, for a lot of people, the disease has been mild, but of the 200 or so answers I also found out that 14 of my friends knew people in their immediate circle who died as a result of this disease — that is, 14 people. This is the question I asked yesterday, and this morning I looked at the answers. With this contradiction, we should all then live in balance, respect for those who want to protect themselves and respect those who want to avoid, for example, the bankruptcy of their businesses, or those whose health requires access to various services, even in a possible future state of closure. Since we know that the corona and its limitation cause personal tragedies and human suffering, we should be wise here in the house. We should properly weigh up the proposals which are now being discussed in committee around this state of closure. Do they solve the problems that still cause the virus to spread? So the essential question is that the committee should consider whether all decisions are proportionate. Yesterday, for example, when we closed the gyms, we discussed the point of view as to whether it would be possible for the ten people to go to gyms. Well, I myself go to the gym for my health, and I know a lot of people who do, and I don't think it's proportionate that categorically all the places are closed. We should be able to consider those people who need water therapy for their health, for example, in the pool or need to exercise guidance or such personal physiotherapy. They don't necessarily last that three weeks. Their condition simply does not last. As a result, I believe that there is so much wisdom in this house that we can take into account these people, whom there are many in Finland who need special attention and special services during a possible closure. Mr President! If we are able to keep the Starts open during the shutdown — if so — then I believe that we can also keep open the places that people need in their own lives. One proposal is that which I mentioned earlier today, this Dutch model. There, stone-foot shops and practically all shops can receive customers as long as it is made with an appointment booking system. With this system of appointments, we would save thousands of entrepreneurs from going bankrupt. With the same principle, we could also continue to keep different places of exercise open, provided that the meeting of people there is responsible and controlled. I want to believe that entrepreneurs are responsible and that entrepreneurs want to do everything in their power to defeat this wretched virus. However, I do not believe that this can be done by restricting the movement of people or imposing a mask. There is also a need for such steps that no different variants of this country can come freely. As a result, I would like to see a negative corona certificate issued by those arriving in the country, and they must also be placed in controlled quarantine when they arrive in that country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u298	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u299	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, we have rightly considered the proportionality and appropriateness of this proposal, which severely restricts fundamental rights, namely, in practice, whether it is precisely the right way to do so and whether it is really necessary in this case. Parliament will now use this at least next week. Mr President! However, when I see here that the explanatory statement of this proposal also provides estimates of the schedule of vaccinations, I would like to highlight it. It states: ‘The health and well-being department estimatesthat all over16years of age could be vaccinated by After all, this assessment has already been given to the public in the past. Mr President! I personally think that almost all the corona restrictions have been necessary. Of course, it is always easy to discuss whether they are right, appropriate and necessary at that particular time, but in such a general, large picture they have been. Yet people are getting tired. I believe that a lot of people are now waiting for some prospect of the future, for a shadow of hope when all this will end, especially if there is still a situation in which the government considers that it is proportionate and appropriate, even after Parliament has dealt with this law, to actually introduce it — that assessment must be made even then. I believe that if people see that this ends sometimes — and perhaps rather than now we dare hope — that will and desire and motivation and ability to follow the restrictions are also better. We would need such a common view of why these restrictive measures are needed and why they are worth following. Unfortunately, at the moment, I am getting far too many messages that reflect on the fact that all restrictions are unnecessary and are not complied with under any circumstances, but also those that already consider that if restrictions on movement come, in what way can they be circumvented as far as possible. It is certainly not what the government is seeking with this proposal, but there is a need for a common will to ensure that the restrictions are respected as well as possible. Mr President! I therefore appeal not only to the government, but also to the officials working in the ministries, that the need for all these restrictions and recommendations, which we have laid down or which have been made in the form of recommendations, is constantly being emphasised. - Now it seems we have to go back there when it went longer. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! I meant to talk briefly, but it was a rambling. — That is what I wanted to say at the end that officials and authorities in the ministries also have a great responsibility to ensure that people believe in the effectiveness of restrictions and recommendations. For example, the fact that this week the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at the A-studio has some doubts as to whether these masks are useful or not does not help to make every person feel the need to use them. It is high time to admit that last year there was a miscalculation when it was not believed that masks had a major impact on how quickly the disease spreads. But we can also say from this very house that we have met every week, for example, at committee meetings, although, with safety distances — i.e. we are also doing other things than wearing masks — and yet, in practice, there have been no further infections in this house, at least according to my own knowledge. At least three cases of disease have been reported and also multiple exposures. I believe that masks have played a big part in the fact that there have been no further infections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u300	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u301	Madam President! In my speech — certainly in good faith — I gave false testimony to this government proposal in so far as it looked at these other, less fundamental rights-restricting options. Representative Ovaska, who has read this in more detail than I have, kindly showed that on pages 28 and 29 this examination has been made in addition to the points to which I referred. Secondly, Mr Hopsu asked about this issue of keeping the prior test certificate so strongly on the table. In fact, I think that is what has brought this issue to the fore, that Finland, unlike all other Nordic countries and apparently almost all other European countries, has not had this advance test certificate for tourists. It is precisely the lack of this method, when it has been introduced everywhere else, that this issue has been raised. Of course, it is not a magic method, as has been said many times here, but after the number of passengers is increasing, it is quite clear that this kind of test certificate verification is a more practical and effective way than testing every comer. This is what I am saying, knowing that these test certificates are easy to falsify and can probably be bought in Estonia or Russia at a relatively low price... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u308	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u309	Madam President! In addition to what I said earlier, a few words about the social impact of the proposed restrictions on mobility: Korona has changed every day of our lives. The economic and social impact of restrictive measures has been enormous. There's been a fall in business. People have been left out of work. The work of many Finns has been wasted. Our dear elderly people have been separated from their offspring, children and young friends. Teachers have done their best, but distance learning inevitably puts learning outcomes at risk. Many Finns have been tested for their livelihoods, their sense of security and their health, and unfortunately there is no end. Mr President! With the Government's proposal, it remains open how the government intends to ensure that the economic and, above all, social impact of the planned restrictive measures is minimised. The government has dealt very roundly with the social impact of restrictions on movement and could it be said at the top level, even though these are very heavy and serious restrictions on fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u310	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u311	Madam President! In my speech I have just mentioned, among other things, border issues and tracing and the fact that the government has now chosen this path, that things that are not specifically allowed are prohibited. But a few more things: Mr Vikman made a good speech here on these social effects of restrictions on movement, and it is known that many people living alone have had lunch or some other close meeting that has been the highlight of the week. Many lonely people have kept that quarantine for weeks or months only in faith and hope, and have been able to see, for example, once a month that friend who has also been in quarantine all the time, especially in the case of older people. In that sense, it is important that these restrictions on mobility should also be assessed on the social side, and on the other hand, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, would be the right committee. Mr President! Thus, from these facial masks and masks, the collection has long argued that it should become a requirement for facial masks to be used indoors. Parliament is a good example of the fact that since autumn we have had a facial mask, a few metres of safety distance, hand hygiene, and the measures have been taken here in the Chamber, in committee rooms and in the diner in such a way that it is not natural to undercut the safety gap. We've had a few infections here, but no further infections. In other words, we need all of these, but here the explanatory statement states that regulation on facial masks and respiratory masks has not been considered necessary to date, but recommendations from different authorities and private operators and other measures, such as related communication, have been considered sufficient to prevent the spread of infections and that, in the event of a change in the situation, particularly in demographic areas, it is appropriate to re-evaluate the obligation to use facial masks or respiratory masks in limited situations. After giving examples of Parliament, I would ask: when would the government have seen the need to regulate these facial masks and respiratory masks, especially with the introduction of such restrictions on movement and freedom of movement? I am also of the opinion that we need restrictions on assembly, but is this the kind of restriction on freedom of movement that achieves the best result? Yes, people are tired, and now that this government proposal does not clarify but merely raises more questions as to how to act, it does not contribute to people’s ability to act in the same direction as the government is seeking with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u312	Congressman Kimmo Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u313	Mr President! I would have liked to react quickly to two things: First of all, Mr Niiko's statement: It was a very heavy example. I would say, of course, that a single example is not proof of a general phenomenon, but the example that Mr Niikko described was very eloquent. And when you also told me about the wider contact circle, where there have also been those deaths, of course this is about the very serious disease that exists among us and the disease that is so difficult to control. In this respect, all these measures, which are now forced to do, are justified. Of course, we have to think about how inevitable and necessary they are, but we are definitely dealing with a serious phenomenon. Mr Niikko concluded his speech on this issue of border control, which has been raised in several speeches, particularly in the opposition. As far as I know about this matter — and I have also personally experienced it when I have had to cross the border — there is no way to get to Finland unless there is a preliminary test that is valid and if there is no such test, then in any case there will be forced testing at this point. In my opinion, this border control is in good shape with its basic principles and starting points. It is true that when travel has fallen to 5% of what it has previously been and, on the other hand, when diseases cross borders, the corona virus is actually spread in Finland by Finns, among Finns. We should not overemphasize this cross-border effect, even if it is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u314	Congressman al-Taee gone. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u315	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen, I wanted to set this example on purpose because of the fact that, of course, there is a scenario and debate of all kinds about the corona virus and there is a very strong impression that this is a disease of the nature of the autumn flu. Of course, it is true that more people die in autumn flu than in coronavirus at the moment, because it is true that in 2018 almost 450 people died from influenza after illness. The whole of the 21st century went so that, in the first ten years of 2000, less than 50 people died of influenza per year, and then it went up. But at least in my own experience now, what I have heard in my immediate circle some stories when there are basic healthy people dead, it does make me wonder not to take this lightly. Unfortunately, there will be such a phenomenon at times. Of course, it is also clear that these must be compared, in accordance with the overall analysis, with the type of action being taken in the country. Is there more harm, then, to the fact that there are drastic blockades and that there will be human suffering, mental health problems, isolation, bankruptcy? These should all be carefully weighed. Now that we are discussing blocking measures today, the committees should be encouraged to consider the extent to which such legislation might be adopted. Mr President! When I look at this government proposal, for example, on page 35, which talks about the experience of non-proliferation in other countries, there is an example of France and Italy. The Government's proposal mentions that comparisons between measures taken by different countries are challenging, inter alia, because of the different ways in which closures have been carried out and in different epidemic situations. That is the starting point. When you become more familiar with this issue and perhaps a little familiar with a society such as France and Italy, they are exceptionally different from Finland. Where the corona has spread, people are likely to live much more frequently than here, and there are certainly hugs and kisses a little more often than in Finland. It has also been extremely difficult for the government to compare these with the effectiveness of these blocking measures and, as a result, I do not necessarily believe that they bring benefits that are worth doing, at least very lightly. At the moment, those people who are careful are already following the government's and THL's calls. For example, you don’t have to tell them that you have to wear masks when you go to public transport or shop. Eighty to ninety per cent of the people are fully understanding that it is better to be careful than to repent. But even after these laws, the group of people who do not follow them now does not necessarily follow them. In that sense, this is particularly challenging. Mr President! I also wanted to raise the issue which was not directly discussed and discussed here: this vaccine passport: in the European Union there is going to be legislation that this kind of vaccine certificate will be created throughout the European Union. There's a theory about this, too, if there's a theory that looks like it on social media. The most common theory is that those who do not take the vaccine cannot move. Well, there is, of course, one example of this in Israel, where extremes have gone. There has been a situation there — I do not know if it is yet, but it has been — that there has not been a case, for example, at a shopping centre or theatre if there has not been a vaccine certificate. There is no such legislation in the European Union. Only legislation will be introduced in the European Union, approved by Finland, so that any vaccine passport — which is a digital certificate that you are not ill — also includes the option of not having to have a vaccine. It is sufficient to provide proof that there is a negative result of the coronavirus or proof that there has been a disease and that there is a negative result of this virus. You can travel freely in the European Union. Now, if such legislation were not made, that would mean that tourism in Finland would not be seen in the coming summer or autumn, let alone in the coming Christmas. We must in some way verify that the people who come to Finland are healthy. I therefore understand that this has been accepted by the government, after consulting the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, before taking decisions on this matter. In that sense, I would like to reassure everyone that no one is forced to take vaccination. Everyone is free to choose whether to take the vaccine or not. That is the starting point. This is at least the way we are insured here in Parliament by the government, and I want to believe it. Mr President! In short, before we run out of speaking time, I would like to remind you that it is not a good idea to restrict people's contacts, especially outside. It's not like this virus's gonna catch you outside if you keep your distance. Of course, I understand that viruses are bound to spread in close contacts at parties and in situations where people don't want to keep distances. And when this fact is known, there must be moderation in the way we limit human encounters outside. I think there are more people out there who can meet each other when it happens in accordance with distances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u316	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u317	Mr President! A few words about small businesses and people's jobs: Indeed, many workplaces are now facing serious situations. The new restrictions are another blow to the heavy interest rate year, in particular small and medium-sized service companies. Without companies there is no growth, there is no jobs, there is no tax revenue and there is no welfare. A baker contacted me and told me that he had to stop working. A small family business was forced to permanently terminate its dependable, long - term employees and turn off the lights for the last time. That is what is now feared by thousands of companies, by tens of thousands of people in the workplace; is there still a job after the epidemic? Mr President! Not all ways of saving jobs have yet been used. I hope that, in view of the new restrictive measures, the government will, as a matter of urgency, bring to Parliament accelerated lay-offs and similar temporary improvements in unemployment security in order to save people's jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u318	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u319	Mr President! This is where Mr Multala talked about how the Parliament has handled this corona tracking and made sure that there are not very many cases. I think this is a good opportunity to thank Parliament’s long-term occupational doctor Anita Pikkumäki, who has taken care of her property so well that in these difficult times we have been able to rely on our occupational doctor to deal with such a complicated situation together with his team. Now that he is retiring — I think it is his last day of work today — I would like to wish him a good pension, and in this plenary session of Parliament I would like to thank him for the years and for all the help he has provided to us all but also to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u321	I'm sure these thanks go hand in hand with this whole hall. That's how good service we've been given. — — — — Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u322	Mr President! We agree with these thanks. — There has been a good, long debate here today on restrictions on movement and masks. The reasons are clear: The epidemic situation in the health care districts of HUS and Varsinais-Suomi is serious and threatening, and it is good that the government will submit proposals to Parliament. After all, the aim is to have more time for the interaction between vaccinations and possible seasonal variations by rapidly and effectively reducing contacts between individuals. There has been talk of hope here today and that at some point there will also be light, and good news will come from that world: the vaccinations in Israel are starting to work. That's what we expect here in Finland, too, that when we get the Finns vaccinated, we can get rid of this corona son of a bitch. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u323	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u324	Mr President! To follow up on those previous speeches, a few more words about these interest rate cutbacks: After all, in December we were in a situation where the government gave us that very light and hope when it was said that vaccinations would start in the early part of the year and that the situation would improve during the spring. My own town, Oulu, was among the last to start vaccinations for over 85-year-olds, and the week before that, the time bookings had to be suspended because simply there were no vaccines. Fortunately, the situation is improving. Indeed, here in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal it is clear that, in accordance with the vaccination strategy, the vaccine is offered free of charge to all those who wish to take the vaccine, and according to the estimates of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, all 16-year-olds could be vaccinated by July 2021, i.e. within just a few months. I hope this is how it is going to be. That means, however, that we need more of those vaccines. There has also been a debate about whether the order of vaccination should be changed and prioritised, and this week, different government politicians also suggested that this would have been agreed in this context. I hope that's not the way it's been agreed. However, we should remember that we need more vaccines, especially in these areas, where the epidemic situation is so difficult. Those regions, and also regions with a higher population density, need more vaccines, so I hope that they will now come and that they will also be able to move things forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u325	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 3/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u326	Madam President! When you have to thank the government, you have to thank them. This is a good proposal from the government that this temporary change in the enforcement cycle should continue. So, in practice, it is a matter of continuing this provisional law in force until the end of this year. This legislation will allow the enforcement procedure to be relaxed and restricted and the enforcement to be postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic, covid-19. This is to ensure that enforcement men have the legal option of granting flexibility in the enforcement procedure, which takes account of the exceptional economic situation, thereby ensuring the financial survival of citizens and businesses from the difficulties caused by the covid-19 epidemic. Mr President! This enforcement problem is very big for many Finns. According to the report, the number of enforcement debtors has been around 570,000 and remained at roughly the same level as in 2019. This is a huge number of people who are practically hand-to-mouth, and in that sense it would be good if the government could still review the possibility that it would be worthwhile to accept work during this parliamentary term. I know people who are involved in enforcement, and many people say that they are not working. It is not worth taking the job just because it is no longer enough to live when it comes to enforcement, about one third of the salary. Of course, the person who has received the job may receive a moratorium on enforcement fees for up to six months under the law, but from there we should go on at some level of income in order to be able to cope. Another point that has often been raised when discussing with people is the high fees for enforcement, which come on top of it, so that in some cases those charges are quite unreasonable in relation to enforcement when these reductions are levied. In that sense, it would be reasonable to stop beating more and to be reasonable in these matters, especially since it would be possible to regulate the law in such a way as to humanely take into account the ability of everyone to pay. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u327	Congressman Aittakumpu is gone, Congressman Al-Taee is gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u328	I would ask the representatives to have informal discussions outside the Chamber. A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 5/2021 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed. — Representative Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u329	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerns a Government decree under the Emergency Act on the right of the municipality to temporarily fail to comply with the time limits for urgent care of health care. Such so-called implementing regulations adopted under the Emergency Act are immediately referred to Parliament. Parliament decides whether the regulations should be repealed. This is an ex-post check, which means that the regulation is already in force. The regulation applies only to derogations from time limits in special medical care in the area of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. The regulatory framework is therefore much more limited than in the spring of 2020. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the majority of the regulation meets the requirements of necessity and proportionality, and the regulation may remain in force in this respect. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the deviation from the time limits for access to treatment in mental health services for children and young people. With regard to mental health services for children and young people, it has not been demonstrated in the explanatory memorandum that a derogation from the time limits for urgent care is necessary, e.g. due to the transfer of staff to other tasks. More of the explanatory statement, and also the further explanation given to the committee, conveys the impression that during the epidemic the need to provide special care for psychiatric services, especially for children and young people, has been highlighted. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also drawn attention to this point in its opinion. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, any departure from deadlines in the field of mental health services for children and young people on the basis of a study in the case does not meet the requirement of necessity laid down in Article 23 of the Constitution and also Article 4 of the Emergency Act. In this respect, there is a legal obstacle to the entry into force of the Regulation. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has looked at the question of whether Parliament could decide to abolish the implementing regulation in part or whether Parliament's power of decision only concerns the full transposition or repeal of the regulation. The wording of Article 10 of the Emergency Act is not quite clear in this respect. The committee concludes that Parliament may also decide to abolish the implementing regulation in part. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposes that the Government Decree on the right of the municipality to temporarily fail to comply with the time limits for urgent care of health care be repealed in so far as it concerns derogations from the time limits for the provision of mental health services for children and young people and that the Regulation is not repealed in other respects.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u330	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u331	Madam President! There is therefore a proposal for a temporary non-compliance with the time limits for urgent care of health care. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health, on which I was a member, also issued an opinion on this proposal. It is of the utmost importance that the waiver of the time limits for special medical treatment is conditional on the need to give up urgent care and does not jeopardise the health of the patient. In other words, it is very important that these health reasons are taken into account and that no one is left out of treatment, especially in the case of serious illness, if there is a need for treatment. Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health raised the issue of the deadlines for the provision of mental health services for children and young people and the major problems that could arise as a result of their flexibility. We see that this must be the last resort from which Finland is bowed. It is very good that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its draft decision, has taken note of the view of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and proposes that the Government's regulation on the right of the municipality to temporarily not comply with the time limits for urgent care of health care be abolished in so far as it concerns derogations from the time limits for the provision of mental health services for children and young people and that the regulation is not repealed in other respects. This is an important issue, namely that children's mental health services are really under strain and need help there. I would also like to raise the concerns of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the concerns of the Finns on how the staff can cope there at the heart of the corona. It is very important that attention be paid to the ability of staff to cope, and in particular to safety at work. If our staff falls on that corona field, no one will be taken care of. It is also very important that the management debt resulting from the flexibility of the care guarantee be offset as soon as possible and that a resource be allocated to it in the future. There will be long waiting lists, and it is important that people are treated and then receive the help they need in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u332	Congressman Räsänen is gone. — Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u333	Mr President! There is a Government decree on the right of the municipality to temporarily fail to comply with the time limits for urgent care of health care, and this applies to the special care provision guarantee. The interest rate is currently taking up a great deal of resources for special care, which is why this is justified in this situation, although this is, of course, unfortunate in terms of waiting lists for treatment and the creation of a care debt. However, it is important for everyone to receive urgent treatment, and if the situation changes in the queue, the matter will be rushed and the patient will be placed in line for treatment. It is also important that, if the treatment guarantee period is not respected, it is always necessary and it is also necessary to take into account the other way in which the service can be provided, other than by the service provider itself, for example by purchasing a purchase service or a service voucher from a private party or another hospital district. In committee, we raised the issue of mental health problems for children and young people. The line of psychiatry among children and adolescents has been long before the corona, and the situation has become even more difficult during the corona. The psychiatric staff of children and young people also perform a different function than those in the front line of the treatment of corona, and it was seen that there is no direct need for its staff to be in the front line and that they are doing very important work on mental health services for children and young people. That is why we said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would take this aspect into account and thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for excluding mental health services for children and young people in special medical care from this regulation, so that the treatment guarantees are normal. Mr President! Let me mention here the vaccinations of social welfare and health care staff: Now that the staff are working with corona patients and other patients, it is important that they receive the vaccinations, because we also have a problem of availability and adequacy for the staff. At the moment, even in the HUS area, less than 50% of the social workers who work for customers have been vaccinated. This is important to take into account now in this order of vaccination when it is considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u334	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u335	Mr President! We are now living in very exceptional times, and this time requires very exceptional adjustment by the various actors in society and also by people. This is because we can secure the capacity for intensive care. This regulation concerns the HUS region, where the corona epidemic is particularly severe. When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with this, we well remembered what happened a year ago in the world, and in what way we in some of our municipalities might have been unduly proactive in introducing this type of regulation — now that only concerns the HUS area, but then the whole of Finland — and now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed that this can only be introduced in an extreme emergency. Just as has already been said here, children's and young people's psychiatrists have been excluded from this scope, because children and young people have been in a very special position in this corona crisis and it is extremely important that we do not, with these restrictive measures, cause any more grief and suffering where it currently exists as much as with children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u336	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u337	Madam Speaker! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has once again dealt with a matter in which, unfortunately, we have to limit urgent care and access to urgent health care, so that we have resources in our health care to deal with these people suffering from corona pandemics. Unfortunately, at the moment, both primary health care and special care departments are once again filling up with corona patients and we also have more and more people in intensive care units, and it is absolutely essential that we prepare ourselves in this way for the ability to carry our health care. The biggest horror picture of this corona crisis now seems to be that the carrying capacity of health care would fail, and then we could not treat people who had had a seizure and the victims of an accident, for example, when all the places were filled with corona patients. President! It is quite clear that, now that urgent care is being postponed several times, there will be a huge amount of care debt in our society, and it is absolutely inevitable that for years we will be taking care of this care debt and these human welfare losses and the direct suffering that unfortunately will be left out of the fact that we will not be able to get to care when we have to allocate those resources to the corona patients. This is something we are all well aware of in this Chamber. I believe that this work by the Constitutional Committee is good and very responsible. So that work is always accurate, but it has become clear through accurate work that mental health care for young people and children is still being provided, and it is more than necessary. All studies and barometers show that younger age groups in particular have now experienced special stress, anxiety, and ill feeling about corona restrictions and the fact that life has gone into such a limited and frightening situation. This is a huge generation experience for these teenagers and 20-year-olds who are now trying to take their studies forward and go to school, and the hobbies are on a break. Yes, we certainly need these tougher mental health services, but then it is also very important that we invest in hobby activities, schools and yet young people see that there is a future and that this corona will eventually end. Madam Speaker! I would like to finish by sending my warmest and warmest greetings to all Finnish health care professionals, especially nurses, who have been working at the very limit of their efforts for a year now. Certainly these different bonuses,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u339	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u340	Mr President! The need for this Regulation reflects the seriousness of the corona situation. Resources must be transferred from other specialised medical care to the treatment of corona. This transfer of resources and flexibility from the care guarantee is one of the mechanisms by which the bad interest rate situation also weakens other health and other health care indirectly when treatment is not available and resources need to be transferred. Therefore, the fight against corona and control of disease progression are essential and important also for ensuring access to other public health and care. Mr President! In this situation, this regulation is necessary in the HUS region, although it is extremely regrettable that it has been introduced. It is to be hoped that the interest rate situation will develop in such a way that, elsewhere, these powers of preparedness need not be introduced and that the use of these powers in the HUS region can be dismantled as soon as possible. Mr President! Just as the report and the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have said, the flexibility of the regulation on the treatment guarantee should only be used in the last place. Care should primarily be organised in other ways so that the treatment guarantee can be obtained, including, where appropriate, by purchasing services. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health drew attention to the mental health services of special care for children and young people, the fact that there are virtually no staff to be transferred from there to care for corona patients, and, at the same time, the fact that queues for mental health services and the mental health situation of young people in the middle of the corona are in crisis, so the committee saw that the guarantee for the care of mental health services for children and young people in special care should be limited to the scope of this regulation. This is also what the Constitutional Committee did, namely that PeV amended the regulation in this regard and prioritised mental health care for children and young people. Mr President! I hope that mental health services for children and young people and preventive mental health work will also be prioritised elsewhere in this difficult and protracted corona situation around Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u341	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u342	Madam President! Finland has health guarantees legislation in which we provide four different care guarantees: access to physical, somatic special care, access to mental health work for children and young people, access to primary health care and access to dental care. Each of them has three different steps: how quickly a referral must be examined, how quickly the referral must be examined when it requires the involvement of a specialist and how quickly it needs to be treated. So this is 12 of these different times. Now we are dealing with one of them, perhaps the most important thing to mention, and precisely in the area of the largest hospital district, which has now been under the greatest pressure, of course, with corona therapy, here in the HUS region. In principle, as has been shown in the debate, there is also a guarantee of care for children and young people for mental health work, which has a three-month limit. However, just as Mr Sarkkinen and others, among others, have pointed out here, we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health had a very united, in-depth debate on it and then put it before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for consideration if this were not included, and then this was the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Now, of course, in practice, we can ask what the consequences are. What, though, if there is a real situation in HUS that, due to the increased need for care, not all children and young people can be cared for in three months? In practice, I know from experience that purchasing services are simply not available. This is a very specialised treatment, and, especially in the most difficult cases, Finland actually calculates the number of places in less than 20. In fact, there are six nursing places for the most difficult children in Uusimaa and six in Pirkanmaa, and then it is not a question of going somewhere to buy them. But I think this is perhaps the most important message now. Our supervisory authority, Valvira, will probably not be going to impose periodic penalty payments on HUS if we do everything we can in this regard. This is, above all, a message in my opinion. Moreover, it has turned out that we in the autumn were very well able to shorten the treatment queues. I must say that this was one of the positive surprises that there have been quite a few recently. So, in early autumn, after that spring and summer, 20 percent of the patients in the queue were still in long lines, so to speak, illegal, only 5 percent at the turn of the year. That's why Valvira did not leave, for example, to sanction hospital districts. Well, now I hope we can do this, too. But, of course, this is the line of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u343	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u344	President! The problems of the minds of children and young people were exponentially growing even before the corona. The time of the pandemic has only made it worse. It is therefore essential that this group does not deviate from the deadlines for mental health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u345	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u346	Mr President! We all agree that during the time of the corona pandemic, especially children and young people, and also many parents, have had to pay a heavy price for it. Of course, it is of particular concern that the longer distance education, for example, lasts for secondary students and also for secondary students in some municipalities, we will see a pretty big health bomb here in the next few months or at the latest six months, a year from now. In that sense, there must be such a message from here to the government, and the government itself will certainly understand that we now need to increase resources in every way to those municipalities that are unable to respond to these legal times to give the urgent times to those who need them. When a person is in distress, it does not help to wait, it does not help to put that help in the future, but to get it immediately. Of course, I hope that, when we are each of us also municipal decision-makers, we will have discussions on these issues in the city governments and councils, that the municipalities will be prepared to respond to them as quickly as possible. Then, as far as the nurses are concerned, now that we are moving more staff to deal with this corona crisis — certainly the right move, that the resources will then be sufficient for the worst scenario — we should remember now that these nurses are doing a very worthwhile job and at great risk when they are dealing with corona patients. I remained surprised that, when the possibility of rewarding them with extra pay was also discussed in time, the responsibility was transferred to municipalities and other actors, and this Parliament did not want to give it a hand. The government could have handed out its hands to the carers and given some kind of coronal, concrete pay-out, as many other countries have been able to do specifically by the government. Now that it is time to re-allocate this corona support to companies and many municipalities, it would be good to discuss the issue of whether we can also remember these carers working at the front of the corona. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u347	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Today I received a message from a concerned mother about her own youth, who lives and works here in the HUS region. He really was worried about this child and about the whole family at the moment. I also learned another way that in one hospital one department has been transformed into a Department of Youth Psychiatry, because there are only so many patients that have had to make such changes. In that sense, the decision to differentiate between young psychiatrists and the treatment of young people was quite reasonable. In addition to this, I would like to draw attention to a number of other points which I would like to see useful in this time period: I often get feedback from the fact that in many hospitals work management is not entirely in order. I often get messages that the arrival of foreign-language speakers, because there is no language skills — even if there are other skills — poses certain problems and challenges in hospitals at the moment. That too needs to be taken into account at this point. And I'm getting a lot of calls on the payroll. At present, the pay of intensive care workers is not encouraging and people work much more for ethical and moral reasons than because the pay is reasonable or good. This too needs to be re-examined. I know that HUS would get more money and be able to spend it on wages, and I think it would have to do so now. In addition to this, I would like to give one example of this work: there are so-called rhythmic coaches close to the heart, and these rhythm controllers have always been installed by a doctor in the old days. Thus, these are designed to read and communicate cardiac arrhythmias remotely in the system. The Hus.fi case says that in HUS today nurses Evelina Vesinen and Eve Torvinen have now been able to install these coaches themselves. This has led to a huge reduction in treatment time. Patients no longer need to be anesthetics in the same way, including the reduction in the number of antibiotics, and there are many other possibilities that nurses could do in their profession and work, what could be transferred directly from the cardiologist to the nurse, according to this hus.fi case. This again means that we must now look at it innovatively.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u349	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u350	Madam President! Many times we are also asking ourselves what the role of Parliament is, what the significance of this parliamentary work is, and here is one example of it. Parliament carefully reviewed the proposal, consulted experts, and we here unanimously are now deciding on one change to this proposal because experts have been consulted and it is being done because it is important. This is the important role of Parliament: we go through every proposal carefully, and most often — which is often forgotten, because only those things on which we disagree come up big in this Chamber, not so much the things on which we agree — most of the things we decide unanimously here, and quite often we change the government's proposals quite unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u353	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u354	Madam President! I would also like to highlight the situation of social and health care staff and all the workers who work in hospitals and nursing homes. Indeed, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is concerned that the staff will be better able and that greater attention will be paid to safety at work. It is a worrying message from social workers, nurses, acquaintances, nursing colleagues — I have been doing almost 25 years of nursing work — that they have not yet received corona vaccination. This is a matter of great concern. This is indeed a cause for concern, because we understood that medical staff are actually being vaccinated in the very first place. It would now be very important for you, the Ministry, to do all you can to ensure that all the staff in the health sector receive that vaccination. There was talk of ethics here. I want to highlight ethical stress. It is a stress that arises from the fact that health care personnel are unable to do their job as they would like or have taken an oath. ICN, the International Association of Nurses, investigated that we are facing a global mass trauma among the social workers. The interest has caused staff to be tight and to see shocking situations and people's fates, and it will also, of course, affect the state of mind of the carers. Yle is currently on TV with the Hard Year document, for which I would like to thank you. It is a very good timeline for what has happened over the past year, and pictures and stories about nursing staff in particular are touching. For the first time in the spring of last year, the Finns have already presented a special corona supplement to medical staff, including sanitation staff, equipment staff. Surprisingly, there is a worldwide understanding of the importance of medical personnel. Iceland, Germany, France, Portugal, Norway, the Netherlands, Wales and Austria, among others, have paid additional staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u357	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u358	Thank you, Mr President. It occurred to me from that good speech by Mr Juvonen that the cat is alive with thanks. Here, for example, there were thanks, quite rightly, to nurses for their ability to cope, but that should be remembered anyway. We ourselves know that pay also affects that everyday life and endurance. That I wish the government some kind of hand-to-hand. But here I would like to mention something that I do not think is so highlighted, or that I have not noticed: our elderly people. We talk a lot about young people and children, which is extremely important, but we also have a huge number of elderly people who have been under so-called quarantine conditions for almost a year. They have avoided and have been recommended to avoid movement and visit, and last spring there were these locks, and even going to the store was of the kind that, for example, an elderly person told me in Hyvinkää that when he went to the store he was glaring that what that elderly person was doing here, and he said that he had such a feeling that you know, Leena, I'm not afraid to go to the store. It sounded kind of creepy because he had to go to the store. It is precisely this that the elderly have been in this misery for a year. And do you know that our elderly people have built up this society and welfare society for us, and they are law-abiding people and people who have listened to recommendations, and of course they are now waiting with a little horror for what further restrictions will come when they have done everything they can to ensure that this disease does not spread, and then, of course, groups who have not cared so much about it have spread the corona, and then they will have to spend more time at home through restrictions and fear. Of course, this border security is one to which the government has not answered to date. Now, when I asked this question several times last night, for example, Minister Kiuru or Prime Minister, I would like you to answer whether and if so when this legislation on the demand for a negative certificate is coming. It has been said from the Socialist Group that it is coming, and then there is sometimes no response. I'd like to ask, when is it coming? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that it was possible and acceptable, but the law was, as it were, in detention. For this reason, I sincerely hope — and we approved the amendment to the Act on Disease Control yesterday on the closure of sports facilities and gyms — that the Regional State Administrative Agencies will use the sense that in no case will one or two places with one or two people be closed. For many elderly people, they are the only lifeline for both physical and mental well-being, and if this does not happen, then we will have a queue next in the mess and special care. This is one big thing. [President : 3 minutes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u359	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u360	Madam President! I am sure that this proposal will be necessary once again, so this is where we have to go because of the current situation. But there is, of course, great concern about the growing care debt that is falling on us and which will also require significant contributions in the future, so that these urgent special care services can also be organised in the future. Yes, it must be said that when this government proposal came, it was rather worrying that the government also proposed these flexibilitys for the provision of mental health services for children and young people in special medical care. In that sense, I should like to thank the committees, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for having rejected this idea, because at this time, if any, these services are needed. Unfortunately, we have a growing mental health problem for children and young people, which it is important to respond to as soon as possible. It is also a good thing that dental care is not involved, but this is a problem that we really have in our hands. We have a huge amount of nursing debt there in Finnish mouth health. Dentists tell how patients’ mouths are in pretty bad shape now that they come to the reception. I was startled by the news from a prestigious international medical journal that parodontitis, a common public disease in Finland, was found in nearly all corona patients undergoing intensive care. According to this article, research, it is linked to a serious case of coronavirus infection. In other words, it is possible to do a disservice to prevent serious forms of corona in order to increase this care debt in various ways, so I hope that the government will pay attention to this state of oral health care and will endeavour to invest as soon as possible in getting the Finnish mouths in good shape. This applies to the elderly, working age and children alike.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u361	Congressman Mari Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u362	Mr President! Now that this allows HUS to move out of the treatment guarantee without urgent care, this of course requires HUS to be extremely responsible for what is being transferred there. It is good that children's and young people's psychiatrists were excluded from this, but it must also be remembered that even before the corona these queues have been enormously long, and children and young people in the HUS region are often deprived of that prompt treatment. This is a chronic problem, and presumably this corona time will only make it worse. What I would like to raise in this Chamber is that I have listened to speeches on several occasions now that there are times when there is a feeling that competition is taking place which has suffered the most. In my view, the whole population has suffered from the corona, regardless of the age, background. Just as Mr Meri raised this point, so just as we have had the elderly with the corona who have been in real trouble for a year now in their homes. Then there are family carers, there are disabled people who have not been able to meet their loved ones, there are young people, there are people of working age who have lost their jobs or their businesses. I would like to see no such trade here, but all these things taken into account. It is, in fact, the absolute task of this Chamber, to take account of every group that has suffered particularly from this. Sometimes I feel really bad when one or another is raised up, when we in this Chamber should take account of all these things and not go into the race singing, who has now suffered the most. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u363	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u364	Madam President! I also asked for the floor because I would like to emphasise that, when the original proposal included this possibility of moving from the three-month limit of mental health care for children and young people, without being penalised — that is what this is all about — it was also quite carefully thought out and weighed up. In fact, it was based on the idea that this corona disease has also since been introduced, particularly through long-term interest rates, by many of these patients, who are currently seriously suffering from mental health problems, and could then focus more on the treatment of these patients in relatively small and few units and possibly delay the treatment of some other patients, which would go a little beyond the three-month limit. Well, I myself say — when you understand, of course, that this has been the case in the last two years — that I find it much easier to adjust and put words and phrases here, and they are very important because we legislate or make exceptions to the laws. There is a lot of pressure in the work unit itself, just as we all know, but I also know that, in this case, for example, under the leadership of young psychiatrist Klaus Ranta and child psychiatry chief Leena Repokar. HUS has done an excellent development work, not just within HUS, but together with municipalities, so that the division of labour would play as well as possible. I have great solidarity with the fact that we understand that they are under a lot of pressure at work, and that is why, in my first speech, I said that this is not such a simple thing that when we are here setting up a sentence they will get more resources from somewhere. They are not available in the private sector, nor are they available in other medical districts for HUS. But this is a statement from us, and they will certainly take that position and do even more development after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u365	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-26-ps-32.u366	Mr President! This proposal therefore concerns an implementing regulation to abolish, under certain conditions, the time limits for urgent care provided for in health care. Those conditions have been less prominent in this debate, so I thought it would be good to repeat them again. This proposal, which has now been discussed, concerns only the area of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. This proposal does not include basic health care at all, oral health care in primary health care and so on. This is a matter of special medical care. Then, when we look at this whole package, the time limits for assessing the need for treatment cannot be waived — one cannot give up. The treatment guarantee should not be waived for more than two weeks in accordance with the expected need and should in any case be arranged within a reasonable period of time, taking into account the patient’s medical condition and the anticipated development of the disease, so this will continue to be rigorous. Mr Guzenina very well asked if it was not a good thing that we now have such a tight line. This line is really tight compared to the line we took in the spring. In the spring, it was estimated that there would have to be even more deviations from the deadlines, and now a strict line has been taken, and then, if necessary, we will have to loosen up more. At the moment the situation is that patients in the HUS region are already being treated in other medical districts, and we therefore have to deviate from these deadlines so that this pressure can now be exerted so that, unfortunately, resources will now have to be used in the hospital district, then over-sectors. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs rightly takes note of the need to assess whether there is a situation similar to that of others in all specific areas. In the case of mental health services for children and young people, the treatment guarantee is shorter, i.e. three months from the assessment of the need for treatment. In this case, it is proposed that the Regulation should be repealed in so far as it concerns mental health services for children and young people, i.e. in practice the implementing regulation should remove references to the reference to Article 53. For the rest, the Regulation will not be repealed. We are still making these decisions in the Government at an extraordinary meeting today, as the Parliament has pointed out here. Well, it has been asked why it was not left to exclude a particular service from this scope within special medical care. It is a demanding species precisely because of the powers the government would have. There was a position here, and Mr Rantanen, for example, raised other groups. We have certain special areas for the services of vulnerable groups, such as older people and disabled people, in which access to care has already been significantly delayed, and this debate has indeed taken place. I think it is commendable that Parliament then stated that this obligation to state reasons, which is the responsibility of the Government, can be considered here so that it has now been decided to deviate from the problem of mental health for children and young people. In that regard, it must be pointed out that the municipality and the hospital district are therefore bound by a condition of necessity when assessing the waiver of time limits and, in any event, the provision of services for vulnerable groups should be mentioned and assessed separately for these other groups. So I have come to the conclusion when Mr Lindén asked me what the result of this is that I believe that we can manage from the point of view of the system. This is important both for the individual and for us in general to recognise that we have these vulnerable groups. In this regard, I would like to conclude by saying that we are now moving in this direction, we are opening up in this direction, but this is, yes, Parliament, something that we cannot afford to compromise on these times of care. It creates a huge need for access to care from the point of view of services, and I have wanted to be quite firm here, and we will continue to assess every necessity very carefully. But we will soon be hearing how difficult this disease situation is when we deal with the next point, and it may be that here too we will have to make even harsher presentations.
