ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u2	Madam President! This government proposal is necessary as it improves the ability of the military to exercise their right to vote. It is important to ensure the availability of voting opportunities for military personnel, both in the upcoming municipal elections in June and in other forthcoming elections. It cannot be that military service is an obstacle to the exercise of the right to vote, especially since we have long been concerned and concerned about the low turnout of young people. We must ensure that all those entitled to vote can actually exercise this important right. And, as I have already said in this Chamber, I hope that this practice will become permanent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u3	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u4	Madam Speaker! General and equal voting rights and secret and free elections are such a valuable and wonderful thing that I thought I would exceptionally come to speak from this platform. As Mr Pelkonen said, this is a very positive proposal — and one can say that it is a long-awaited practice and a long-awaited proposal. I can agree with Mr Pelkonen's wish that this should also become a permanent practice. For a long time there have been different youth organisations and, in particular, the Armour Association, which have raised this possibility of voting more in the garrison. In the past, there have been situations where a military officer may have had more than one arrest weekend in a row — probably very rare situations, but very difficult situations, even from the point of view of fundamental rights, where a person has more than one weekend closed and then has difficulty voting. In my opinion, leave to serve may have been obtained from service to vote, but the conscripts have had little knowledge of this. And, of course, when we go into that young world, it is necessarily not all young people who are as eager as we MPs to go to vote, so that then, if we were to apply for that leave of service from the captain in the battery or company, then it will be easy not to apply and not have the right to vote, so this is a very important question of civil rights, I would say, and the question of voting turnout for young people. President! Indeed, this proposal, which is now supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this unanimous report, states that a temporary amendment to the electoral law will be introduced to allow institutional voting in the municipal elections of 2021 on the garrison of the armed forces training units and also on the staff training of the Border Guard. This institutional vote at these places of military service would take the form of a so-called institutional vote, which is more widely used. Indeed, the aim is to ensure the possibility for military personnel to vote, especially during the course of the interest rate, while there are longer periods of military training to minimise the risk of disease. President! Allow me to remind you that things sometimes go for the better. When I read this motion and read this report, I couldn’t help but think of memories from there fifteen years ago when I was in my own military service. At the time, I was able to chair the Kainuu Brigade Military Commission as a young corporal, and presidential elections were held. Among the candidates were Matti Vanhanen, Tarja Halonen and Sauli Niinistö. That's when I ran into this problem, and I remember that this was a bit of a taboo when I was talking to some people about it. The legal situation was very unclear and the possibility of leave was offered, but very few conscripts used it. I remember that there were quite the conscripts who then did not exercise their right to vote in the election of the President of the Republic in January 2006, when there were several so-called gines weekends in military language. I would now like to convey my warmest greetings from this podium to Minister Henriksson, the Minister of Justice, whose administration this is, and also to Minister of Defence Antti Kaikkonen, who, as Minister of Defence, has given a great deal of attention to the fact that young people who are also engaged in military service must also have the right and the opportunity to participate. To conclude, Mr President, I hope that this will be made a permanent practice and that the militarymen, these young men and women, will also have the opportunity to use it as one of their political nuclear freedoms, i.e. to give it their own voice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u5	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u6	Madam President! We Finns have managed to build us such a great country by having at different times had an amazingly good skill in making necessities virtues. During this corona pandemic, we have, of course, had to adapt society in many ways to the current situation, so that, on the one hand, people's fundamental rights can be realised as well as possible, while safeguarding the functions — in this case, in the case of military forces — in a way that is as safe as possible. Now that the Defence Forces have had to reinvigorate the training of the garrisonmen in a new way, as well as those providing training for the Rangers, it is essential that the electoral law be amended so that this institutional vote is in force in the garrison. Madam President! I do appeal to the Minister for Justice — and I thank him for this proposal — that this should become a permanent practice in the future too, because learning young people to be active voters would be an enormously valuable factor in safeguarding Finnish democracy. According to many studies, if a young person votes in the first elections, in which he has the right to vote at all, he will also vote the next time and learn this important civic duty, while a young person who fails to vote in the first elections often does not vote in others and then in the future. In this respect, what happens in the life of a young person as regards the active role of elections during military service or the voluntary service of women is absolutely crucial. I am therefore very much in favour of this reform of the electoral law, which now, in the municipal elections this spring, gives all the conscripts the opportunity to exercise their right to vote, through institutional voting. But I would like to see preparations in this direction for the future as well, so that always and in all circumstances those performing their military service will be guaranteed this opportunity to exercise the right to vote as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u7	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u8	Madam President! It is a pleasure to deal with such a proposal, which shares the unanimous view of all parties and which has also been unanimously discussed in committee. Thank you for this presentation to the government. I agree with these excellent speeches which have been made here, and I also believe that this proposal can contribute to increasing the turnout of young people in the municipal elections. Unfortunately, that turnout has not been very high, and I hope that this will help to strengthen it, especially among young people. And, of course, this also improves health safety when these garrisons do not, as it were, fall into their homes to vote, but can safely vote there in the garrison. But I also agree with the views expressed here that it would be absolutely good to have permanent legislation on this. I personally do not see any obstacle to the future, after this corona epidemic, being able to do so. In fact, the whole of this unfortunate corona epidemic has brought us many such fixed-term legislations, which would be good now — as we hope to begin to find out slowly — to consider and consider, as it were, during some kind of trial period and to assess whether it would be necessary to leave them as permanent legislation. This applies, among other things, to many opportunities where, for example, these different remote functions have been used — and, of course, in this time. In other words, this corona period has also given us positive things and, as it were, slightly strengthened such an innovative way of thinking in a new way about many things, where perhaps there is a little fascination with those old patterns. But it is great that this is now moving forward, and with much criticism from Minister Henriksson in this Chamber, I would like to thank him very much for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u9	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u10	Madam President! There is a government proposal and a report from the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, which amends the legislation of the so-called municipal employment experiment that began at the beginning of the year so that a job seeker who is a customer of the Employment Administration can be transferred to another municipality for various reasons or to return to the customer of the Employment and Economic Development Office for various reasons: flexibility, for example because of linguistic rights or otherwise because of better service. This is a good solution and, of course, this proposal and this legislative project will also be able to make it a better experiment for municipal experimentation in such a way as to produce reasonable results, so that at least the results of the experiment will not be distorted by any such technical aspect. Mr President! This employment policy and where it is being done is perhaps a broader issue, because just a week and a half ago the government of the country completed its own mid-term review, the framework of the state finances, and that was the half-way review which the government used to have, and there the government agreed that employment services would be transferred to the municipalities in the future. It's a big change, though. It is therefore a big policy: we have a long history of employment offices and state-run labour policy. But there are also great opportunities here. The majority of those in this country think that the more local employment can be managed, the better the results will be achieved. And it can be understood by its rustic and urban sense that the municipalities know what businesses there are and what kind of industry there are. Especially in smaller municipalities and cities, the unemployed are known even very personally: they can be provided with services, they can be provided with training paths, they can be considered together with local companies and their unemployed job seekers as to what type of apprenticeship training is needed here. What these full employment trials have been carried out in individual municipalities has been quite positive. I think, Mr President, that there could be a new, bigger gear, the so-called'sixth gearbox', for this management of unemployment and also for the shortage of labour. I believe that the whole of this hall has a shared desire that the employment rate in Finland will rise and that Finns of working age will be very strongly attached to working life. And maybe those differences are here about the means. But this would certainly be an opportunity to get a six-speed switch to the problem of unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u11	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u12	Mr President! Indeed, the experiment with municipalities in employment is taking place. There are a number of pilot areas and a large number of municipalities involved, and now I would like to call for this experiment, which is quite long in time, for more than a couple of years, to be carried out in such a comparative study between those involved in this experiment in different regions and those who are not. For example, during the last government period 2015-2019 a similar experiment was carried out, and it turned out that general economic development, especially in the last two or three years, was hard and employment went up quite hard and was already difficult to distinguish, which was due to what at municipal level and accordingly. Some reflection is at least due to the extent to which the employment impact was due to the resources, the fact that municipalities were only able to allocate more resources then, and the extent to which the actual resources generated an increase, how much they were cost-effective. Parliament is now discussing the implementation of impact assessments of legislative proposals, which the Audit Committee is doing, and this pilot project on local authorities to promote employment has been discussed by TyV, but we also discussed the subject in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u13	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-07-ps-54.u14	Madam President! I personally believe that it is certainly sensible to manage employment at municipal level in the majority of Finnish municipalities. On the other hand, it is very difficult to see again the side of how the local authorities will be able to manage the employment situation in the region in the best possible way. In this sense too, perhaps the one size fits everyone's mind, which the government is trying to drive into the country by force, is not necessarily the most sensible. But, in principle, I am strongly in favour of this thinking, that it is the municipality that is the right unit of a person's daily life to deal with employment issues, for example, where other welfare issues, local vitality and so on are also in everyday life. In this respect, both this law on promoting municipal experimentation and, of course, the government's line that the practical implementation of labour policy measures should be taken to the local government level in the future are, in my view, the right direction. But here too, of course, there must be sound cooperation between municipalities — where it is appropriate. But, Madam President, it must be said at the same time that, although this is reasonable and justified, this is not in itself a decisive measure to increase employment, since there is no other measure on the part of the government. In this respect, I would like to express my concern at the fact that the government has separated itself from these good old traditions, that when decisions are taken that affect employment policy, then the Ministry of Finance will keep to its assessment of what the real impact of the measures to be presented will be, and then, by means of the shaking of the sleeves, will not create estimates which give a completely false impression to the general public as to what the real impact of the measures to be presented will be. Unfortunately, the new policy adopted by the government gives an unreliable picture of Finland's administration, and now we should give a reliable picture, also in international investors and in our credit institutions, we should have confidence that it is worth investing in Finland, that we should work here, that we are a country that does not allow its country and nation to over-indebtedness, but that we will succeed in the future.
