ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Let's go to the conversation. Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u5	Thank you. — For the debate, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u6	Mr President! As the Minister stated in this presentation, the purpose of the Work Channel company proposed to be set up in this bill is to provide employment and access to the labour market for part-time workers. The establishment model has been used, where applicable, by Samhall, a long-standing company in Sweden. A future company would recruit staff when it needed a workforce, just like other companies. In this case, the Employment and Economic Development Office's employer and business services seek to offer the company employees who meet the needs for expertise. In this case, it would be particularly important for the TE Office to offer only the most vulnerable part-time workers. This will provide people with fresh work experience and work experience and improve their labour market capacity. Without the possibility offered by the company, these people who are intended to be customers of the Working Channel have little chance of finding employment directly in the open labour market. The Employment and Economic Development Office would include in the employment plan the willingness of a person capable of working part-time in the employment plan to be employed in the service of Työkangas Oy. The plan would also state that the person fulfils the criteria to be nominated for employment at the Work Channel. In the government proposal, it has been estimated that: Through the work channel, 1000 of the most difficult jobs to employ per year would be employed in part-time work. When a person finds a job in an open labour market, he leaves the Work Channel and is replaced. The company also aims to implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Finland has already ratified in 2016. Under the agreement, States Parties should promote the recognition of the skills and abilities of persons with disabilities and their contribution to their workplaces and the labour market. Mr President! There is a lot of good in the bill, and I believe that many people will be able to find employment in the open labour market through this. In this context, however, I would like to address a couple of points of principle: The first is the concept of part-time workable. There is a lot of talk today about those who are able to work part-time, but when you listen more closely to the debate, it becomes clear that we do not have a common understanding of what this concept actually means. Since we do not know where and who we are talking about, we cannot find targeted and effective measures to help people on their own path to employment. Too often I still come across an attitude where disability, for example, is perceived as part-time work. Well, it's not like that. This problem has been taken into account in part in this bill when it says that this bill focuses most heavily on the part-time working capacity to be employed. President! A person who has only part of his or her ability to work may be considered to be able to work part-time. On the other hand, a person who is able to work part-time in relation to one job may be able to complete the second task in full. Are we not all able to work part - time if we are at work that is indecent of ourselves? Part-time working ability is individual and linked to the cause, function and work and its requirements of part-time working ability. There may be a variety of factors behind the ability to work part-time. Part-time workers may be long-term ill, disabled or experienced in the life crisis, or work and functional capacity may have been reduced for social reasons. The ability to work varies, and part-time working ability can also be temporary. In the case of disabled people, reasonable adjustments, i.e. different working arrangements for example, can help those who are able to work part-time to be fully capable of working. Petri Pohjonen, former Managing Director of the Invalid Association, often criticizes the concept of ‘part-time’,for there is no part of each of us. We're all whole. Rather, we should talk about finding suitable work for all. In this process, people may need support and help from professionals. Finland needs everyone's input, and all the work is valuable. I believe that this draft law is basically about this. The second point I would like to draw attention to in this connection is the assessment of the impact of disability. The audit committee is preparing a study on the quality of the impact assessments of legislation. If we want the UN CRPD to be implemented in Finland, more assessment of the impact of disability is needed in the legislative work and in the preparation of decisions in general. In this draft law, I would have liked to see an assessment of the impact of people with disabilities on the agenda even more strongly, and I hope that the committee will take a careful look at this and consult the various organisations for people with disabilities. Of course, statements from organisations have been taken into account in the finalisation of the legislative proposal. However, more generally and more in principle, I hope that the assessment of disability effects will be understood better and more widely as an instrument for ensuring the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities. This is therefore the case with all the legislative work. Among the concerns raised during the consultation were the following: Concerns that disabled people and persons with partial capacity for work should be treated in too straightforward a way. The opinions asked whether it was enough to ensure that there was no abuse and whether there was sufficient information in the Employment and Economic Development Offices and other authorities about the different groups of disabled people and how to deal with them. Disability organisations also expressed their concern about whether the distinction between different groups of people with disabilities and part-time working groups is sufficient to help everyone in the best possible way, depending on the situation. On the other hand, the question was whether the positive special treatment introduced by the UN Convention would be achieved by law and its applications. The opinions also stressed that working on the work channel should not become too marked for part-time workers. Last time, I would like to mention the message from the feedback that, in addition to this bill, other important legislative projects to improve the position of people with disabilities and people with disabilities in the labour market must be taken forward. I hope these feedbacks have been taken into account in the bill. Personally, I have not been able to read and verify this bill so accurately, and I hope that these issues will be raised during the committee's hearings. And now that we have a minister present, he will probably also be happy to comment on these themes. And at the end of the day, Mr President, it is also important that the implementation of the law should be accompanied by a research section in order to provide research evidence-based information on the effectiveness of the action and also the tools for further developing the model. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u7	Thank you. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u8	Mr President! This bill is to be welcomed, and here there are issues of fundamental importance which, I hope, in the future will contribute to the employment of both those who are able to work part-time and those with disabilities. I must say that we in Finland have had this intermediate labour market underdeveloped. Some do not like the term ‘interim labour market’, buthowever,it describes the way in which people who have reduced their ability to work would be able to enter If we are thinking of the countries that have been successful in Europe at the moment, then Sweden is indeed — as has been said many times here, this company Samhall is here a little like Sweden — but also the United Kingdom and Italy have developed the intermediate labour market. I am sure that here, now that this legislation is being made, we should look at certain points to see what solutions have been made in other countries. The Minister has rightly said that if we really want the 75% employment rate — and here I would like to point out that this is not enough for us in this situation of economic and indebtedness, but that 78% must be set as an objective — if we want to do so, then everyone who is able to get a nail to work there, as it were. Many of these people, who are affected by this legislation, are precisely those who absolutely want to enter the labour market, but who do not want to go there for a reason or, unfortunately, because of attitudes, for example. In Finland, at the beginning of the 21st century, the legislation of social enterprises was drafted, I was in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, and it raised these issues of competition neutrality. For some in Finland, it seemed to be the main concern whether the laundry houses run by people with mental disabilities would become a major distortion of competition in Finland, which seemed to be a very strange and very attitudeful approach. I hope that, now that this legislation is being brought forward, these same types of arguments will not once again come up. Of course, it must be made clear that when it comes to supporting that employment relationship, it must be considered that it is doing the right thing, but, as was seen in the case of social enterprises, the criteria were such that, unfortunately, they did not make us in Finland expand this network of social enterprises and the number of social enterprises has remained modest. It has indeed been stated in this bill that this Work Channel can also carry out production activities and may also have different subsidiaries. Of course, it's important that here, when it comes to these people who are here... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u11	Thank you. — And now, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that Mr Essayah’s speech was an expression of willingness to debat. Stand up and press the V button. — My observation was correct. Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for giving this very important proposal. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen already stated in his first speech that the person who is able to work part-time is a person who has access to part of his or her working capacity. Part-time working ability is individual and also linked to the cause of part-time working ability, to the work and also to the demands of the work. People who are able to work part-time often need tailor-made services provided by many different operators to find employment, and now this company can employ the most vulnerable part-time employees in the future. In fact, I would have shared Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's concern about what kind of individual plans can be made for people through the work channel – this concept of part-time working ability is very important. I also agree with the good speech by Mrs Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u13	Like this. — and Mr Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u14	Mr President! As has already been demonstrated in this Chamber, the purpose of this company is to employ the most vulnerable part-time workers, namely those whose working conditions have not been sufficiently improved by previous measures and services. It has also become apparent in the Chamber that the most difficult situation is for persons with disabilities or illness who are over 55 years of age and who have a low level of education. It is also worth remembering that this proposal is part of the disability programme, and I would also like to say right away in this debate that this bill is implementing the obligations of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and it is very good that this is happening. This reform is limited to a very small but even more important group, and I would also like to point out that this is not about any pay subsidy for work, but that for those who are employed through the company there is a wage level in accordance with the collective agreement law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u15	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u16	Mr President! There is a good goal here at Work Canal Oy, but there is something I am wondering about, and I would like to ask the Minister about it. Normally, if an unemployed job seeker refuses to work, he will be subject to sanctions, but here is the fact that if it is found that a person who is able to work part-time would be able to do a specific job at Workhalla Oy, he will be allowed to refuse it. This has often been justified by the fact that you can receive a lot more social assistance than you would get paid here. How, then, can this be compared to a normal, fully capable person, who refuses when now a person who is able to work part-time can refuse differently? How can you compare these things now?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u19	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u20	Mr President! I also welcome this proposal, and this is a proposal that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party can support. It is quite true that these social enterprises, as Mrs Essayah has mentioned here, have not been able to fill this gap sufficiently, and it is therefore good that this Swedish model is being tried out. I also have one question for the Minister, and it is in fact related to what Mr Essayah asked. What is essential is, of course, that the right people are being directed here, that people who could also be employed in the normal labour market, as Mr Essayah said, and perhaps even more importantly, I see that when these people are there on the work channel and if they prove to be fully capable of working for some other tasks there, they will then be able to move on from there, not as if to stay there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u21	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u22	Mr President! Part-time working ability is different for everyone, and there are many reasons behind it. That is why different services are needed in order for everyone to find a suitable job. A young person or adult with mental disabilities is able to do many kinds of work when the orientation is good, the responsibility is appropriate and the task is suitable. This is what I've seen as the headmaster of the National Academy many times. I had fine mentally disabled workers who did their own work tirelessly, with good cheer from day to day. Many people with mental disabilities have special talents, qualities that enrich their working lives. They bring a good mind to the community when they come. I would like to ask the Minister: how do we ensure adequate training in the employment of mentally disabled people through this excellent company?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u23	Congressman Koponen, Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u24	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for its proposal, which is a good start to allow those who are able to work part time and on disability pensions to return to the hammer. In order to keep the wheels of the welfare state moving, it is important that as many people as possible get to work, and this also applies to people with disabilities. However, as has been said above, not all people with disabilities are able to work part-time, and I would therefore like to focus on them in this speech. It is good to remember that the majority of disabled people want to be paid. Many people with mental disabilities are still working unremunerated today without getting respect and confidence that they are worthy of their work. Employment challenges for disabled people start at the recruitment stage at the latest, but probably much earlier, i.e. when the school path defines the needs and means of providing support. Employers also need support to be better able to meet and offer work to people with disabilities. I would like to ask the Minister how we will support employers in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u25	And Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u26	Mr President! I myself would like to thank the government for this work channel presentation. Of course, this increase in employment rates is particularly important, but even more important is the idea of guaranteeing all people the right to work. We are all familiar with a number of people with mental disabilities who are happy, hardworking, skilled people who want to work, and I think it is important that the government now gives them the opportunity to carry out their own work and to be a part of society more strongly. This is also about the human rights of people with disabilities and the fact that they are a strong part of society. The company's goal is to employ up to a thousand people, and the important message is that it is with fair employment contracts and wages. Perhaps I would ask the Minister how we are now going to inform and raise awareness here. And this message is also important to all citizens:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u27	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u28	Mr President! This proposal is in principle a good one, but this spring Sweden has been quite critical of this Samhall — especially because this company in Sweden is competing on the free market and when they receive state aid, they will be able to participate in the tendering process at a practically lower price. This has led to the problem that it is precisely these mentally disabled people, who are hard-to-work, who are no longer suitable for this company and who have been excluded from this activity of Samhall. This is in fact a major problem which Swedish disability organisations have also criticised this year. I would like to ask Minister Hatainen: how to prevent these problems which exist in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u29	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u30	Mr President! Thank you for this. This is an excellent thing. It is only with that advice that this will not work if it does not involve those services. In the last and previous years, six years were developed to help those with part-time skills and to get them to work — the means at work, the means of social and health care, rehabilitation, education, employment services and social security, with these combined service packages and training of work capacity coordinators for six years. It is important that these are taken into account, but I am very surprised that this draft law has not brought up this six-year experiment and six-year development in any way, because it is precisely those impressive activities, and I hope that you, as a wise minister, will take into account what six years were developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u31	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u35	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u36	Mr President! This is a very welcome legislative reform and something on which the whole of Parliament has had many years of debate, that how to provide a reasonable model for those who are able to work part-time. This is where we go in the right direction. Of course, the opposition and others always find fault with the proposal, but I believe that the direction is now to take, as it were, into their own hands: to set up a company within which it is easier to tackle these problems than if they were loose. Finding employers who, in principle, already have the capacity to hire part-time workers is an excellent thing. The disability organisations had a campaign that was then kept in mind and which said that ‘I am disabled,but I am incapacitated’. In many cases, it is attitudes that stand in the way of hiring people who are able to work part-time. I'm glad this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u37	Next, Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u38	Mr President! I lived in Poland for a couple of years, where people who were able to work were seen working on the street and in restaurants. I remember asking about the salary, and it was said that the salary was poor, but there is still a chance of getting along. And then when I went to the United States, it was the same. There is in fact a law on such things as underpaid, meaning that under its minimum wage there is a salary that is paid to these part-time workers. I think that the creation of this company is both an economic issue and a human rights issue, and it would be extremely important for us to ensure that real money is paid for the right work in Finland and that these people also feel respect for it through pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u39	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u40	Mr President! This is a very benevolent proposal, and I myself would like to support it with the experience of a special teacher and with the known deficit here. But in this perhaps the biggest thing this can get is that the mental well-being of such disabled people will be improved and in that way we may be spared in some other expenses. Minister, in my region there were many municipalities with such an EKE product, as I recall, who then produced such laundry services and others, and then when such competition laws came along, among other things, the municipalities stopped using this kind of service provided by those who were able to work part-time. What kind of tasks is offered by this Workchannel Oy, and who
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u41	And Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u42	Mr President! Minister! This is a good proposal and it is good that efforts are being made to promote the employment of people who are able to work part-time, such as people with disabilities. By the way, Minister, you are working vigorously to improve employment. However, it has to be said that when exactly one month ago, when the new employment figures came, which were good, you specifically referred to the term ‘government employment policy purgatory’, did this have a low impact? When your main employment promotions, such as Active Model Two,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u44	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u45	Honorable Mr. Speaker! The proposal and the objectives are appropriate, as the representatives of the government parties and also of the opposition parties in this Chamber have rightly pointed out. Of course, this work channel will employ people who are able to work part time. In practice, part-time workers can do almost any job. Those who are able to work part-time have a wide range of professional skills. The educational background is wide and diverse. This company also supports employees by providing more training and supporting their ability to work. The objective is commendable by this action: up to a thousand new jobs are most difficult for those in employment. In my own province, Kainuu, the unemployment rate is only nine and a half per cent. This is a response to the fact that this unemployment rate will fall even further. Thank you to the government for a good presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u46	Like this. — Representative Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u47	Mr President! I believe that there is a much better chance of managing the employment of part-time workers, which has both an economic impact on employment and a very important human impact. In 2013, I was contacted when people who worked in oral health care, people with mild mental disabilities, were unable to continue their employment contracts. It seemed that responsibility has also been playing ball in large municipalities for a long time, and I believe that such a national actor can bring improvements to this as a sufficiently large player, but of course implementation will be the key. However, the speeches here have been very positive, both from the opposition and from the government's ranks, and we now have the opportunity to change the attitudes of employers, so that everyone can have a meaningful job and live a better life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u48	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u49	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister how a management organisation has been designed for this whole company: however, when it comes to a national company, how can it be structurally operational and bring up the comments made by the representative Kontula and the representative Risiko? For it to be effective for it to work, this provision of services should be at the centre of the work ability title that I dare to use here — but in any case, the fitness and ability of people is certainly at the heart of it. Even if there are desires, there may be a barrier that does not work, so I would ask the Minister: how can we ensure that the individual receives the services he needs?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u50	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u51	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation. I am particularly pleased that the reception for this proposal here in Parliament is perhaps exceptionally positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u56	Like this. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u57	Mr President! We have some 50,000 to 60,000 people in the country who want and are able to work, and I would like to thank Minister Haatainen for this proposal. This is a good and welcome presentation and takes it in a good direction. We currently have too many people who are capable of part-time work — many of whom are more than disabled — who are sidelined in working life, and are also being bounced around in rehabilitating daytime activities and in very different places. It is a good thing that this is now going to be the new player. But the question that arises, of course, is that in my own municipality, for example, part-time workers worked for a long time, were able to do some yard work, were able to mow the lawn and did small furniture restorations, grinding and this type of furniture, and then because of some miracle it was found that they were distorting competition and that they could do nothing anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u58	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u59	Mr President! This is a very good objective, but I would like to make a few critical points. The government is setting up a new company that is expanding bureaucracy and the public sector
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u63	Now, Mr Östman, and then we will hear the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u64	Mr President! I agree with Mrs Rante that setting up a company will not solve any problems, because the companies are operating in a market economy, but this bill itself and its content is a step in the right direction. As we know, in many cases the work input provided by disabled persons is entirely responsible for the input of a person in a normal employment relationship, but they are nevertheless only paid the allowance of EUR 9 per working day granted by Kela. The allowance is not the only income of a disabled person, but it seems offensive when paid year after year for good work. I ask Minister Haatainen: will this bill improve the chances of people with disabilities being employed under normal conditions of employment and pay?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u65	Like this. — And now Minister Haatainen, just over three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u66	Mr President! To that last question: yes, because this is where wages are paid in accordance with the collective agreement. Here on a number of issues, or in fact Mr Mäenpää raised the point — and I think he also spoke in other speeches, in Mr Heinonen’s speech — about how the municipalities can act on this. It is all right to note that this procurement law now makes it possible for procurement contracts to be subject to conditions relating to the promotion of the employment of disadvantaged persons, where they are compatible with the nature of the procurement. Therefore, this contracting entity in the municipality may require that a part of the procurement is carried out using the labour force of those who are able to work. And now that the procurement law has been amended, it also allows these contracting entities in municipalities to reserve the whole or part of the tender to be obtained only from a company that employs part-time workers such as Work Canal Ltd. In other words, this also enables municipalities to become members, and municipalities can now be customers of this Työkangas Oy, which means that their contribution will help. We in the government have an employment project in progress with procurements, and this also supports the whole. They asked me how to inform you about this. The company is responsible for this information, and the company chooses the sectors in which it operates and also defines the criteria by which the TE Office can then direct the right people to these services. The purpose of this is to be a last resort, which means that other measures have not helped these people. It must be possible only to seal those who will then benefit from this. There was a lot of discussion here about this concept of part-time working ability, and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out quite rightly that we people are different and that every person should find the right place to work, and especially when there is a disease or disability, it becomes more difficult to find it. Mr Risikko also rightly pointed out that for many years different things have been done, but they have not produced results on the scale that is now being hoped for. As far as this package of services is concerned, it is described in this government proposal. For these people, all social welfare and health care services are available, rehabilitation services and so on, that is to say, working there in the company does not exclude it. Mr Lehto then asked about these sanctions. They don't fit in with this. For example, there are people on disability pension or people on rehabilitation. Then, in addition to everything else, the TE Office specifically ensures its willingness to work. So now we are talking about people who want to enter the labour market but cannot find it because companies cannot find the right skills that could come to their needs and these people cannot find the way, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u69	Yes, thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall then be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the order of business have been closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u70	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Congressman Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u71	Mr President! The Government proposes the creation of a new state-owned company in Finland, which aims to employ those who are able to work part-time in a challenging labour market situation. The goal is really good, but Tehokangas Oy is becoming a large company that can have activities all over Finland. It is thought that it can produce job hire, it can subcontract, it can subcontract, it can have subsidiaries, so it is such a cross-sector company. This is gonna be a really big dweeb. I don't know how this is really controlled right now. Well, then, the starting point is that the employees who would be hired here would be on the wages of TES in the employment contracts in force for the time being. Well, considering that these offices and subsidiaries can be around Finland, the world is changing and the market can change, and then at the same time there can be no disruption of free competition, it can be that certain offices have to be closed down, and then there may be no work for the employee of the Work Canal Ltd in this company in their own territory, and then there will be the Yts. It may be that we will then have business negotiations all over Finland all the time here in the company. And when you have to try to work effectively not to distort competition, but you have to get along on your own, it does bring a lot of problems where you are, whether you may have to reduce, and even how this works, which follows from this that you do not distort competition, it is a big thing to do. It may be that there is no competition and such a company goes there, but then someone would have wanted to start such a business in a short time, but it is no good leaving now that there is practically a state in competition with its subsidies. It's a good idea, but we're gonna make a pretty big dweeb here. I do not think the resources are enough to get this thing running properly, and there will be problems here. This is so complicated the whole law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u72	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u73	Mr President! Every Finn is worth a meaningful job. Work brings meaningful content and well-being to life. Work prevents exclusion, falls from the sled. It is necessary that our climate of attitude becomes appreciative of all work, that we genuinely think that all work is valuable. Finland needs every employee. The employment rate has increased significantly during this and the previous term of the government, when the centre of the government has been present. However, we still have a vague point: TE services now employ more than 30,000 unemployed people who have a diagnosis of reduced working capacity. Of course, part-time workers are not a united group. There are many reasons for this. Part-time workers may have mental health problems, various diseases, developmental injuries or physical injuries. Their position in the labour market is difficult. The most difficult are those with disabilities or illness, who are over 55 years of age and have a low level of education. In particular, it is worth investing in their employment. In order to sustain the welfare society, our country's employment rate should rise to 78%. This requires a wide range of employment measures. This cannot be done without better employment for those who are able to work part-time. The means used so far, such as subsidised work, have not sufficiently led to the permanent employment of those with part-time skills. Mr President! New measures are needed. The government's ability program brings them to the table. Now, according to the Swedish model, we are setting up a company that would hire the most difficult people to work directly for the company's employment relationship. The company would start operating in 2022. The aim is for the company to employ a thousand people. Companies would find the right skills, job seekers would find the right job. The intention is that this work channel would operate throughout Finland, but it would be gradually launched. The work channel could make use of existing services and cooperate with different actors. We need to work together. When an employed person improves his/her skills and ability, he/she can move to an open labour market after working in the company. This transition and path must be adequately supported and levelled out. The work channel is a clear alternative when there are no other opportunities for employment. The company will promote access to employment for people with disabilities and persons with partial disabilities in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. EUR 20 million of core capital will be allocated from the EU recovery package to finance the company in order to enable it to start operations. In addition, 10 million annual appropriations will be made available to the company. Now the money in the recovery package goes to the right place, which has a long-term welfare effect. Mr President! Other things are also done for those who are able to work: the Employment and Economic Development Offices are provided with work capacity coordinators. Service piloting improves the suitability and suitability of TE services for part-time workers. The transfer of TE services to municipalities also supports those who are hard to find employment. These are all actions for the benefit of a Finnish working person. The results of employment measures already speak for themselves. According to a recent survey, employment is 72.5 per cent and unemployment has fallen by 50,500 people a year. In particular, I welcome the opportunity to employ young people and adults with mental disabilities in genuine paid employment. Many people with mental disabilities want to work for their salary. Many of them are able to do so when training and guidance are sufficient, the responsibility is appropriate and the job is suitable for them. This is, above all, a choice of values for us. It's a great thing for everyone to find a job that suits themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u74	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u75	Mr President! I dare say that we are now taking a big step towards promoting the employment of those who are able to work part-time. We have just over 60,000 people who want to work and, at the same time, many sectors where there is a shortage of labour. It is therefore good that a new way of working is now being set up to find employment in the open labour market. There are good experiences of this from other Nordic countries. The purpose of the company is therefore to employ the most vulnerable part-time workers, namely those whose working conditions have not been improved by previous activities and services. As was apparent in the Chamber earlier this afternoon, and also in the speech just now, the most difficult are those with disabilities or illness who are over 55 years of age and have low levels of education. This government proposal is part of the disability programme. The aim is to: The work channel would gradually expand across the country and make use of existing services and cooperate with other actors in the intermediate labour market, such as organisations and foundations. It is excellent that work to achieve an ambitious employment rate of at least 75% is not left untapped. However, it is clear that further measures are also needed, as people's employment and the labour market are undergoing a constant change after the new challenges of the corona era. The creation of the working channel Oy is an important step in the reforms of the disability programme. Together with the transfer to the municipalities of TE Services, the introduction of the Nordic Employment Service model, the reform of paid work, the recruitment support trial and the competence centre for continuous learning create a broad foundation where people are supported on their own individual path to working life. I also said this this afternoon when there was a debate on this subject: this reform is limited to a small but even more important group. I also think that what is important is that there is no mention of work carried out with a pay subsidy, but that those who are employed through the company have a wage level in accordance with the collective agreement law. This government proposal has also become a lot of inquiries already at this stage, and it is of course up to the government and Parliament to tell the various actors and networks about this important proposal. Mr Lehto said in his own speech that this is a great deal of trouble. He thought of this proposal as dim, and he feared that this action would distort competition. I can promise at this stage that the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities will deal with this subject in such a way that I would like no one to call this important proposal, which will ensure and strengthen genuine work for those who are able to work, dimly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u76	Thank you. — Representative Koponen, Noora absent, representative Kaleva absent, representative Kvarnström absent. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u77	Mr President! It is good to have this demanding task put in place for Tehokantava Oy, directing people with part-time skills through new means into the labour market, a very positive thing in itself. But even when many companies are doing the right thing, so that some subsidies can be given to the employment of those who are able to work part-time, I would hope that there will also be investments on that side, because it is absolutely necessary for that person to have access to the genuine working community in some way, to be involved in the working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u80	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen is absent. — — — — Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u81	Mr President! We have a presentation here at the hearing about the establishment and legislation of Tehokantava Oy. It is intended to create jobs for people who are able to work and who are disabled or who are disabled. It is true that work is the best creator of well-being, and what I see here is particularly good and where perhaps the greatest impact is, is that it improves people's mental well-being. I have been a specialist professional teacher, and I have read quite a lot and tried to find such different social channels in which students can become permanently employed. There's a huge difference. All these students have been individuals and some of them have found permanent jobs without any social support or measure, and that is probably the purpose of this too. But if we go back 20 years, for example, South Ostrobothnia had such an EKE product that employed disabled people. They had some kind of small metal and wooden activity and then, as I recall, there was a laundry. Unfortunately, these only have been found through society's legislation so that they may have distorted competition, or when it comes to this kind of competition law, then the municipalities have no longer been able to buy their services. This is what the Minister said during the day that something is coming. What is the problem here is that this is not an easy tick. I'm afraid I don't really believe in this. I consider this to be a good idea and an idea and an objective, but what kind of tasks does this company have to offer these people? Does it work a little like some kind of rental company? I understand the limited liability company has no employees. Where, then, can you find these companies that hire employees for themselves through Työchannel Oy? When we live in a market economy and its work has to be profitable, I think it may even be childish to think that companies would hire disabled people to work without being compensated for them in some way. If you think that through this company all people are paid in accordance with the collective agreement, then if it is invoiced to this entrepreneur to whom the employee is active, you will inevitably think of who will then compensate the employer for this lack of ability to work. Many people with mental disabilities want to work, but is it worthwhile for an entrepreneur to hire them? However, companies are trying to make a profit. In other words, I would understand it in such a way that in some way companies employing disabled or mentally disabled people should be compensated by some tax relief or wage subsidy to make this worthwhile. There is a very great risk here that we will actually create a dim, which will only increase the incentive traps. A person who is capable of part-time work due to an injury or illness is not in a very equal position with the disabled or with a person who has no disability. I understand that we want to do this and there is good will here, but there will certainly be problems here and there will be a risk that this will become such an incentive trap, which may even cause problems for these people who will go along with it. On the other hand, this also seems to be such a trick job if you pick up these people from Tehokangas Oy who come to work there and work, and there is money reserved for it. If this becomes a company or a group of companies passing through Finland, how many tens or hundreds of people will come to work here at Työkangas Oy? And is it in some way profitable business then, i.e. how Tehyöchannel Oy finances itself or will it always depend on subsidies in the future? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u82	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u83	Mr President! I used to be Minister for Social Affairs and Health, and this job creation of the part-time workers was very difficult, and very many of these part-time workers, such as disabled young people or people of working age, were really sad that they were not employed. By then, a great many studies had been carried out as to why. I did not lie for a week when I went through all the material that has been done in Finland for studies and studies about what should be done, and my conclusion was that we did do it — those tools include the means of the workplace, social and health services, rehabilitation, education services, employment services, social security and possibly others — but the problem is that we first tried one, then it took six months, then tried another and went another six months and before all these experiments had been done, it had gone for years and the person was more exhausted. That is why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we launched a project called Osku, which was a project specifically designed for the part-time workers, which started to develop it so that it did not go so far as to try one tool at a time, but that they were all tested in a tailor-made way at the same time. And we got a tremendous amount of good results out of it. We've been looking into it. We were also trained throughout Finland to work ability coordinators. I was really glad that the next season’s government, which therefore started in 2015, adopted this same model. It was precisely the OTE project and it continued with the previous project, and good results were obtained — it has been studied. And today I said to Mr Haatainen, who was here and whom I consider to be a very sensible minister, that he would now also look at those results. I understand very well that what is being done here, that is to say, this labour channel Oy share company, is a sort of till, but now we must not forget that we need continuous services, we need, we could say, such a multi-faceted effect on the condition of the person, because work is the best social security. Work keeps a person at ease, so to speak, when he gets into the work community and is able to implement himself. For this reason, it is also very good for mental health and it is important to many people who are able to work part-time in coping, including in economic terms. That is why I hope that this will actually become something and that this will achieve something — but it will not be achieved if these services are not included. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u84	Thank you. — Representative Kaleva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u85	Mr President! It is appreciated and supported that the government strives to improve the labour market capacity of those who are hard to work and those who are disabled. It is also important that those who want to work who do not have sufficient labour productivity to find employment in the free market become active members of society. Work is more than a source of merit. The work helps to structure itself and its relationship with the community. Work brings success and experience of necessity. Everyone must have the right and the opportunity to be necessary and important. Many who are able to work part - time want to share in the blessing of the work. Many have found the places they would like in working life, but too many have missed them. If a government proposal helps these people pursue their dreams, it is absolutely necessary. We also have a great core of unemployment in relation to the control countries, which does not seem to be moving in any direction with the economic cycle. There are many reasons for this: there are health and social problems. I'm having some problems with my face. There are shortcomings in working life capacity, such as language skills or the adoption of culture. It may also be that knowledge is out of date or never existed. At the same time, labour standards have risen. Regrettably, some citizens are permanently out of work because their productivity is too low in relation to the prevailing wage level and the secondary costs of working life. Our system is too rigid for everyone to find their natural place in our society. This is something that we who work in this house must look for solutions to. The Government Working Channel is a way to calculate the bar for some. The work channel is a patch for the key problems of our labour market and is therefore necessary. Mr President! Despite the goodness of the legal reform, there are problems with its reasoning. The aim of the work channel is to meet the objective of raising the employment rate. Prime Minister Marin's government says that he is aiming for a 75% employment rate and sees the work channel as one of the means of achieving it. However, a significant structural reform The work channel will not be unless it succeeds in improving labour market capacity to the extent that a significant proportion of those who come under it will find their path to the free labour market and businesses within a reasonable period of time. Does the government believe this? As has been said, the employment of these people is of human value and is to be welcomed. In this respect, the proposal has its place and I therefore welcome it. However, if the work channel is seen as a way of embellishing statistics, as one of the variations in trick job creation, it is likely to serve as a smoke screen for the government's inability to carry out structural reforms that are necessary for Finland's success. For Individuals The work channel is a good thing, but it is not decisive for Finland's economic success. It is essential for Finland and also for public finances that the employment rate increases specifically in companies and the private sector. Unfortunately, the growth of the public sector or the employment of public money will not solve our challenges. Bringing as many people as possible into the labour market is a good thing and it is good that the elements of social security are being increased. Social security must also be reformed in such a way that it is always workable and profitable for everyone. At present, employment is not life-long, and many periods of work and unemployment follow each other. The joints must be made flexible. We also need to dismantle the incentive traps. Recruiting a job must improve the income level of the individual. You have to keep more euros in your hand. Coordination of work and social security needs to be built in a flexible way, and the thresholds need to be removed. We will continue to have people whose labour productivity is so low that they will not be employed in an open labour market, at least under generally applicable working conditions. One problem in this respect is the fact that we have absurdly high side costs and high taxes, which make more and more jobs seem to turn into poor profitability and the risk of hiring. For many, the threshold for the labour market is too high at present, although at the same time we have a lot of work that is not done and for which there are willing factors. The purpose of laws, standards and social practices is to make it possible, not to prevent people from implementing themselves. Hopefully, this bill and the work channel will give new directions and bring valuable experience in reforming our labour market and social security. I hope we can get some food for the reform of Finland. From the point of view of the Government's efforts and arguments, the present draft law is essentially a disciplinary act. However, the project has other values and may be a step in the right direction. That is why the proposal is, in principle, to be supported and necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u86	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u87	Mr President! It came to mind that we currently have a target group — i.e. those who are hard-to-work or who are partially capable of working, who may be disabled or who are disabled — including people who have suffered some injury in some road accident or accident at work, and because of their current insurance activities they might rather be entitled to disability pensions, perhaps even disability pensions paid by the insurance company, and because they have not been accepted there because of this system, they will be reluctant to hang out as unemployed. And this kind of thing yet, representative of Taimela — The trout there was just spinning its head, so I thought you might be interested in this issue — that perhaps the kind of thing you should really raise there as a representative of the government is what problems and conflicts arise with a potential insurance company or pension insurance company when this Labour Channel Ltd employs these people if the employee has been found to be part-time and is possibly on partial disability pension. This is certainly not going to be an easy thing, that if someone is partially incapacitated and receives a partial pension from an insurance company for example, then how this compensation behaves if he goes in there with the work channel Oy. There will be huge problems and contradictions. At least I myself estimate that this Työkangas Oy may become a big incentive trap for these people who receive a partial disability pension. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u88	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u89	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to say to Mr Mäenpää that I feel that this government bill is too important and worthy of the bill to be used as a 'dim' term for it at any point in time when there are too many problems. That may be why I feel I have the right to wave my own face or my own head in such a way that you also noticed it. Perhaps here, now that this debate has taken place during the day, I want to tackle at least one duubion linked to this possible distortion of competition. So, as with other publicly owned companies, the Competition Act applies to this Workchannel Ltd. The working channel must operate in such a way that it does not distort competition with regard to the provision of similar services by entities operating in open markets, such as companies and organisations. State funding must not create a competitive environment for the company to gain a dominant position in the market, for example by means of dumping pricing. In practice, this means that the pricing of the services provided by the company must be market-based. The increase in the company’s market share could also be limited if necessary. And I would also like to inform the representatives at this stage of the debate that, in order to prevent possible competitive disadvantages, the Advisory Board for Pricing and Market Share and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy would monitor and, of course, intervene in possible competitive disadvantages as part of corporate governance. So, in that sense — and I am sure we will continue to work in committee and consult experts — I would feel that this problem has been ruled out in the preparation of this law. Then I would also like to say that I cannot agree any more with the good speech made by Mr Risiko in this Chamber recently, that this kind of continuous dialogue between the various actors is the only way to achieve the will of this motion. And then, perhaps at the very end of this debate for me, I would like to say that this increase in the employment rate for the part-time and disabled also requires a major change in attitude. The fact that you have a disability does not make you incapacitated, and I think that this message must be sent out quite clearly also from this debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u90	Thank you. — Representative Salonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u91	Mr President! It is estimated that there are some 50,000 to 60,000 people in Finland who are willing to work and able to work part-time. In TE Services, there are now about 34,000 unemployed people who have a diagnosis of a decrease in working capacity. Some of them work fast. However, they are accompanied by a number of persons who do not yet have a diagnosis or by a number of persons who are not in TE services as jobseekers. This group may include people on disability pension or in the field of open employment, for example. It is estimated that there are 65,000 people who are not able to work, and they want to work and estimate that they can do so. The aim of this proposal is to develop the employment of part-time workers in a new way, i.e. to develop the intermediate labour market as part of the disability programme. In the future, working channel Oy will be able to employ these most vulnerable part-time workers. We need their input in this country. The government's objective is to reach the 75% employment rate by the middle of the decade. This also requires greater participation in the labour market of those who are able to participate in part-time work. In order to achieve this goal, this disability programme has been launched, and Työchannela Oy is now part of this entity. Mr President! However, the word "part-time" is misleading. We should talk about all people who are capable of working, who have individual differences in their ability to work. That's the target group we're talking about right now. I also believe that when we stop talking about those who are able to work part-time, we would empower people to discover their own potential, their own ability to work, but we would also influence the labour market so that people would start to see it, not as a part, but as whole, who then have individual differences in working capacity, which then come into consideration when doing the job. Now, finally and finally, we have started to develop this intermediate labour market, and I look forward to what this government proposal will eventually achieve, what its outcome will be: how people who are capable of working but who have individual obstacles, for example, to working hours, will be able to be part of our labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u92	Thank you. — Representative Kaleva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u93	Thank you, Mr President. The intention is not to prolong the debate, and I will be brief. — — — — What Mr Taimela has said here is absolutely correct; it cannot be said to people with reduced working capacity or some disability that they are less valuable. They're valuable people. Their work input is just not so valuable that it can be paid enough on the free market that anyone should hire them. They're still valuable as human beings, and they're able to work. Earlier, when I served as an officer in the Defence Forces, we had such persons in the armory who were responsible for changing dirty socks to clean or similar. These people were valuable members of the working community despite everything. Someone was interested if this person did not come to his office at 6:45 when he had to, and he was called why you were not at work. He was taken care of, and he was a member of the community. If we go only to this tough free labour market, then such people will inevitably fall out of this market. The transition to this kind of funded social assistance is very welcome, and it is also welcome for these people who, through their own work, are able to improve their own situation and receive more euros in hand, and just as Mr Risikko said earlier, it is also important mental health work. That aspect must also be taken into account here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u94	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Now only 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The following introduction pipe contains several tax laws prepared by the Government now in the presentation of Parliament and then moving towards the deliberations of parliamentary committees. First of all, Mr President, the government's proposal 175 on the taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages. This proposal implements the amendment to the Directive on the harmonisation of the structures of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. This proposal proposes raising the reduced rate for beer from 2.8 % vol to 3.5 % vol. ethyl alcohol. It is proposed that this change be carried out in such a way that current consumption levels do not affect the proceeds of the alcohol tax. As a result, the tax level for mild beer would be raised from the current — now accurate — from 24.75 cents to 28.35 cents per cent of ethyl alcohol. It is also proposed that the provision of the Directive on the issue of a small production certificate to another EU Member State should be implemented in Finland in such a way that a small independent manufacturer may issue a certificate of his activity himself. In addition, this proposal would clarify certain provisions on tax exemption and then update the references to EU legislation. The proposed law would come into force from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u96	Like this. — Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u102	Congressman Marttine's gone. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u103	Mr President! I am sure that this reform is important and, as the Minister has very well mentioned, we must be careful about these percentages and their impact on this tax revenue, which means that this does not have any effect, which is fiscally neutral. But what I am paying attention to — whatever these figures may be — the main thing is that when we have to go there, then — what I am extremely concerned about, is that here we are now seeing how the European Union is gradually tying us with its tentacles completely in vain. We will be like the vassal states that humbly follow. I'm sure one day they will determine our lives by the most bizarre rules. I remember from a country — if the President permits a brief illustration — that there was a procedure in time, in one country, for a political institution to order that seed be planted in spring by a certain time, and when there were northern regions in the same country, seed was sown in the southern area on fertile, good, warm ground, and in the northern area there was half a meter of snow, but the sowing was to be done and so it was done. Hopefully, in the European Union, we will find some sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u106	Like this. — and Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u107	Mr President! I would have asked the Minister: when it comes to regulating at EU level, how much can we take into account the laws on alcohol in different countries, in different Member States, in cultural law? I understand that, in this particular legislation, this does not make a big difference in one direction or another, but perhaps a little bit in the direction that Mr Hoskonen was perhaps pursuing here. How much of this kind of substance-related legislative activity takes into account such cultural laws? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u108	Like this. — Mr Myllykoski and then the Minister have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u109	Thank you, Mr President. What I would say here, after these two speeches, is that in some way we are going to play a game with the little pieces.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u112	Like this, poetically. — And now Minister Saarikko. There were questions about tentacles in the European Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u113	Mr President! Our own drinking culture and European drinking culture, yes — I hope that all these aspects will be taken into account in the preparation of these issues in the European Union, and, as we can see from the good speeches in this Chamber, this change cannot now be considered as very big. But it is also worth noting that I believe that these amendments to the directives are not directly binding, but are enabling. Perhaps a few recaps on this whole alcohol tax: the Alcohol Tax Act therefore lays down the structure of taxation, the basis of taxation, the products to be taxed and the definitions used to construct these products, the levels of taxation and also the grounds for non-taxation and reduced tax. And then these alcoholic and alcoholic beverages, which were already in the name of the law, are divided into five categories of beverages under the Structural Directive: beer, wine, other fermented alcoholic beverages, intermediate products and ethyl alcohols. The law refers to a drink intended for consumption containing more than 1,2 % ethyl alcohol. However, in the case of beer, a drink containing more than 0,5 % by volume of ethyl alcohol is considered to be an alcoholic beverage. As mentioned here, this has no direct change to the amount of alcohol tax, and this is of course a little different from what Mrs Myllykoski here paints, which would then have a significant impact on tax revenue. This is more now such a structural change on the basis of EU legislation, a national reflection on how to implement it. Even if a tax change, if such a change were to be made, would not affect the current consumption of beer in terms of the proceeds of alcohol tax, the tax revenue could change if the consumption of beer of different strengths changed. So, of course, this taxation can have a consumption control policy. However, the behavioural impact of the tax change and its direction are still very difficult to assess when the change is relatively small at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u114	Yes, thank you. — Now, Mr Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u115	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation, and I regret that I was unable to hear the whole debate. Mr. Speaker! A few comments on this proposal and on alcohol taxation in general. This proposed change, which the Minister has been through, is very small — perhaps we are talking about a small structural change — but I would nevertheless like to highlight the big picture of this alcohol policy that we should be taking forward together. It is that, with some changes and encouragement, we should be able to shift the consumption from home sofas to bars and restaurants, which would then support employment in the Mara sector and thus the survival of these companies. A number of measures have been mentioned here, for example this first change in the VAT treatment of alcohol served in restaurants, which has been strongly highlighted by the sector. On the other hand, on the other hand, we could talk more widely about whether it would be possible to buy alcoholic beverages, for example, from restaurants, and so forth. So, of course, it would be desirable for Finland to move towards a more freer, more responsible European alcohol culture. However, I believe that the direction of the debate and the culture have also changed or changed in Finland, but they may then be the things to come. In any case, Minister, we will go through this government proposal very carefully in the tax section and then look more closely at its content.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u116	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u117	Thank you, Mr President. In tax matters, from alcohol to cars, but the issues are not, hopefully, related. In the Government's proposal, 176 Parliament's laws amending Article 10 and the annex to the Automotive Tax Act and Article 10 of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act are implemented by the Government's decision to abolish the car tax on new electric cars and, accordingly, to increase the basic tax on new electric cars. These measures are intended to support the green transition and the targets for reducing emissions from transport. In this decision, the lowest car tax rate would therefore be reduced from 2,7 % to zero. The lowest tax rate applies to passenger cars and vans with a specific CO2 emissions of 0 g/km during driving. Thus, the car tax would not be levied on cars powered solely by electricity or hydrogen — i.e. exclusively by electricity or hydrogen. At the same time, the basic vehicle tax on these cars would be increased by EUR 65 per year. The proposal relates to the budget for 2022 and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it and is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year. The modified car tax table would apply to cars whose first date of tax is 1.10., i.e. it was already at the beginning of this month, or the dates after that. Of the cars taxed between 1.10.2021 and 31.12.2021 — this is, of course, very relevant to the car trade — the tax administration would repay the car tax by means of an adjustment decision without an application. The increase in the basic vehicle tax would apply to cars that were introduced on or after 1 October 2021. However, the increase in the basic tax would only apply to the tax levied on or after 1 October 2023.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u118	Yes, thank you. — Representative Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u119	Mr President! The ecological option must always be cheaper than the more polluting option. The Government's proposal to abolish car tax on zero-emission cars supports this objective. In the future, more Finns will have the opportunity to choose a zero-emission car when their price is competitive compared to internal combustion engines. The Government's proposal is a good continuum for aid for the purchase of zero-emission cars, which, together with the abolition of the car tax, speeds up the penetration of zero-emission cars in Finnish transport. We must aim for a situation in Norway where almost half of the new cars sold are zero-emission. Of all passenger cars, the proportion of zero-emissions in Norway is already 12%. The situation in Norway also shows that northern location or long distances do not prevent the proliferation of zero-emission vehicles in transport. Finland must aim for the same status as Norway and even exceed it if Finland wants to halve transport emissions by 2030. The abolition of the zero-emission car tax is an important step towards moving towards fossil-free transport. Mr President! In accordance with the road map for fossil-free transport, Finland aims to halve emissions of domestic transport by 2030, and the transition to fossil-free transport must be made fairly. This is why various procurement subsidies, tax reliefs and investments in infrastructure are extremely important, so that every Finnish has a genuine opportunity to choose the type of emission-free mobility that is suitable for itself. The abolition of the car tax will increase incentives to purchase zero-emission cars because it will reduce the cost of buying the car at the time of purchase. This government proposal is also cost-neutral in the long term, as the abolition of car tax will be compensated by a gradual increase in the annual vehicle tax on zero-emission vehicles. However, the cost of the vehicle tax does not affect the purchase decision in the same way as the car tax, which is directly reflected in the car price. Finland will continue to need its own car. That is why we must make political decisions to ensure that new cars on the market are zero-emission or at least as low-emission as possible. Detachment from fossil fuels is essential because of the climate. Versatile energy based on renewable sources increases Finland's self-sufficiency, energy security and the conditions for people to move when we are no longer dependent on global oil market changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u120	Congressman Essayah is gone. — Mr Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u121	Mr President! The increase in the base tax on zero-emission cars has been scaled so that this change would generate tax revenue over the typical lifetime of the car corresponding to the average reduction in the car tax. So the car tax is taken away from zero-emission cars, and then the vehicle tax is increased by them. This is in practice that you get a discount on the first car, but you will pay the same amount as it was before the vehicle tax was abolished, so this is kind of like a partial payment agreement with the tax office, so that this happens for the rest of the car. Well, when you think about it, let's do this kind of thing like tax relief for the wealthy. A low-income worker who works in a car doesn't benefit from any of this. But here's another good trick for the wealthy to get a little cheaper full electric car or hydrogen car, and then he sells it to the low-income guy who has to buy a used car. He gets the one who spends a lot, and he pays a lot of fuel tax. This is simply a means of recycling costs for low incomes. Well then, if you think that even if you could afford to buy a hydrogen car or an electric car, it is not always possible. First of all, it is quite difficult to refuel a hydrogen car in Finland at the moment. I don't think there's any points. In the Baltic countries and then in Stockholm you will find the nearest refueling points. An electric car is nice, but a lot of people live in old blocks of flats, which you can't get a charging point for if you don't have big renovations. And it will not happen for a long time yet, for a long time, that the housing company will agree to it, unless the government forces the additional costs there again. There's no way to get it. Or you're gonna take that car to some store yard for a long time to worry that it's charging slowly, or they've seen in the express chargers that they're robbing people at prices again, who really want to load it very quickly. This is a good idea, but this isn't gonna work, and this is gonna kick a low-income guy's ankles again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u122	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u123	Mr President! The content of this proposal has already been made clear, that is, indeed, the car tax will be abolished from full electric cars and the vehicle tax will be increased by EUR 65 per year. Surely it is a good thing that such a proposal supports the Finnish climate target, reducing emissions. I am sure that we all agree on the very fact that the objectives are that transport should be as low as possible from emissions and that it should be based, for example, more and more on full electric cars, are very much to be supported and even necessary, because we have certain climate objectives. In this connection, I would like to say the same thing that I have said quite often in connection with the proposals on the taxation of motor vehicles or transport, and which, incidentally, the Committee has often noted in its own comments that, on the whole, when these individual proposals come into being, it is necessary to follow up and, in particular, to pay attention as a whole to a package of taxes on transport and motoring that takes account not only of ecological and social and regional objectives, but also, in a sense, of social and ecological and regional equality. In other words, overall transport taxation must be quite challenging to find, but when it is sought and reformed, then I think it is very important to remember these issues of justice too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u124	Like this. — and Mr Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u125	Mr President! I believe that this proposal is quite right in all respects. Of course, it can also be said that, in the end, some minor changes are at stake here as a whole, but the fact that taxation specifically supports the transition to these low-emission or zero-emission modes of transport and the renewal of the car fleet is, of course, very welcome. But, Mr President, as I have said, these steps are rather small, and this is where only and only these full electric cars are being introduced, and there too very minor changes are being made. However, we must remember that the Finnish car fleet is one of the oldest in Europe. These changes, which the government is proposing, are now confined to full electric cars. We know that, however, the vast majority of Finns will drive internal combustion engines very far into the future. And every year, tens of thousands of second-hand motor vehicles are imported from abroad, especially Sweden. Now that this electrification is moving forward in Western Europe and in Europe as a whole, the big risk is that we will continue to have more and more of these big-engineed used cars brought to Finland, unless we also make a bigger change in our car taxation. That is why we have proposed a larger refurbishment of the tax on motor vehicles in the assembly, in order to reduce the car tax to a greater extent every year, specifically in order to support this change in internal combustion engines, not only for these full electric cars but also for all the other forces, and that is in particular the fact that the next step would be to reduce the car tax on low- and medium-emission internal combustion vehicles, so that we can get more of this cycle, so that we can also get more of these small-used internal combustion engines on the market, and thereby reduce the total emissions of motor vehicles through them. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see this change in the taxation of larger motor vehicles, which we are facing and which is necessary to do, because we are still talking here about quite small amounts of what this change is going to do? How do you feel about the motion for a convention, about moving beyond the car tax, because in any case, in the future, the car tax will have a significant fall in profits? But now that we are still in the driver's seat, would it not make sense to go on doing bigger renovations to motor vehicle taxation and also to support the introduction of newer, safer cars to the market in a wider way, which will then be used by Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u126	Like this. — And now, Mr Al-Taee and then Minister Saarikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u127	Mr President! Minister, three points: The first question relates to the overall assessment of transport in the light of taxation. How is freight and maritime transport in relation to this whole? What is the road map because there are the big emissions and there is also the hydrogen that means a lot? And then, with regard to this performance itself, there are two points in more detail. Number one: It must be fair both for our citizens and for the planet. To the planet from the point of view that modern electric cars operate on lithium and cobalt batteries. To meet this demand, which is in the world, we would have to drill Finland full of holes in order to get that cobalt out of there. So from a climate point of view, it doesn't make it a blessing that they're electric cars if we break our nature with the other hand. The value added of these products is high, but if that processing does not take place in Finland, we will thus lose tax revenue. What is this from the point of view of the Mining Act, and how has this aspect of nature been taken into account in this taxation when electric cars are being pumped and pushed at the moment? And then there is the second question relating to that fairness for the citizens. That conversion aid should go as far as possible here, because then we will have our petrol and diesel cars as usable as possible for as long as possible. Let's pay the difference of what it costs to convert, to change it, because when we wait for those electric cars to come — probably 75% of all electric cars in the world are going to go to the Chinese market at the moment, but at some point they will start coming to Finland much more widely and from more and more suppliers, still the cobalt problem there — we should be able to drive our petrol and diesel cars as cost-effectively as possible and save nature. And here this conversion is incredibly important. That too is a tax relief, and it is actually a tax relief, which goes directly to the poor who drive cars in this large country. These three points if I could get any more answers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u128	And now Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u129	Mr President! However, I will stick to my answer — thanks for your good analyses — mainly in the government proposal now before us. I would like to make a general comment on the fact that it is probably what Mr Marttine is thinking here that there is a need for a greater tax change in itself, in a certain period of time. I am not only referring to the vehicle tax and car tax, but also to the transport tax package which is now reflected in higher fuel prices by means of a gas pump — not so much as by government solutions but also by world market prices — and, on the other hand, the inevitable change that the global car industry has already implemented and strongly changed the structure of cars and the direction of the market for the development of renewable and, above all, electricity-based transport. I am not going to predict, especially not from this box, but my own assessment is that the market change will be even faster than we can predict right now. This has happened to a great many measures to combat climate change, namely that governments – we and others in many other countries – are after all looking for the inevitable and good development of a market economy, such as in the car industry. But yes, Finnish taxation must go along with that, and so I am referring to the taxation of all transport. Here, in his own speech, Mr Mäkelä critically went through the fact that what about the less well-off car buyer, the middle-income car buyer. Of course, the objective is not to be influenced by the national government alone, but to make the price of electric cars affordable, to change the market and to make it more possible for the middle-income and even for the low-income. So, how do we move towards this development? By the fact that the car fleet is regenerating. And how does it come back? Since then, new cars will also enter the market that has been used later, they will be more affordable and the car fleet will be reformed and will also allow for alternatives that are friendly to the environment for people at different income levels. A few more points, Mr President, to this proposal itself. The basic message for this is to encourage, not stick, those actions that are climate-proof and that are also reflected in the everyday lives of consumers. Why are there only new cars involved? — — — — I am also referring a little to that reflection by Mr Mäkelä. — Because domestic and foreign cars must be treated equally. Domestic cars registered before the beginning of October this year must have paid a car tax, so the car tax must also be paid for foreign cars. And here, as I said in the introduction, the decision of our budget negotiations, the tax solutions as a whole, but also the work of the Transport Tax Task Force, where increasing incentives for the purchase of electric cars through changes in car tax was one part of the wider picture. Finally, I would like to say that, as a result of the tax change, the incentives to choose an electric car at the time of purchase would be improved, because emissions control through a car tax will have a greater impact on consumer incentives than on emissions control through a vehicle tax, and that is why this internal change in taxation will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u130	Yes, thank you. — Representative al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u131	Thank you, Speaker! I would also like to ask what kind of assessment you have made now that we are encouraging people across Europe through various directives and then national laws to buy electric cars. How do we ensure that human rights are realised in those countries, for example? In African countries where cobalt is mined to make these electric cars possible? How do we ensure that the nature of Finland is not damaged because the market is demanding electric cars because of this rapid regulation and market pressure? I would still like to hear your assessment, Minister, of how we could achieve this balance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u132	This is not the case with this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u133	Mr President! The question is very deep and thorough, and Finland alone cannot even influence it. Of course, we must ensure that Finland is part of the international community that takes care of both the human rights issues of the labour market and the global nature values. I myself have visited the Talvivaara mine a few weeks ago, which certainly formed a strong impression that environmental values are now strongly present here in Talvivaara — Terrafamen — I correct, regret, I mean the wrong concept — when the Terrafame mine is being re-entered, insofar as raw material is being formed specifically for the battery industry in a very environmentally sustainable way. As part of those processes, environmental values have been taken into account, i.e. the activities that are done on the soil of your country. This may be affected by our own legislation, but in the case of global rules of play, Finland must be a part of international communities, as it were, watching over them. The representative rightly draws attention to the fact that a single Finnish supplier, producer or mining industry is not in the process of solving this in itself, but it is part of the huge global demand for supply that this electric car industry is going to require, and it is developing at a record pace. We must, of course, be careful not to make a strongly environmentally and climate-friendly move at its speeds to undermine our common values of nature and the environment elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u134	I saw, and now that the debate has ended, that it was Mrs Lehto, whom you referred to, and not Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u135	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u136	Mr President! First of all, I would like to apologise for the false name of the representative I have just said: I am sorry about that, but I hope I answered your speech correctly and referred to it correctly, even though the name went wrong. Sorry about that. The government's proposal 184 is now on the next reading of the tax laws. In this proposal, the law of the Parliament amending the law on the transposition of certain provisions covered by the legislation of the agreements on income tax with Aruba with the Netherlands is to be adopted at the end of this year. At the same time, the law would be repealed by a clause prohibiting the application of the Mutual Law. A limited tax agreement is a fixed-term agreement, but no provision was included in the transposition law on the time-limit for application. Without this proposal, a situation is emerging in which the period of application of the agreement expires but the law of adoption remains applicable. This would come into force from the beginning of next year. The duration and application of the information exchange agreement will continue normally. Mr President! That next government proposal is very closely linked to this same theme, but you obviously hope that I will present these separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u137	Well, this is the wish we have now. — — — — Let's have a conversation between us. Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u138	Mr. Speaker! This proposal relates as a whole to this prevention of international tax evasion and to measures in which Finland has also been involved. Mr. Speaker! I would like to say that during the previous government, this international exchange of tax information or the exchange of financial account information, in which Finland has been very much involved, expanded significantly. In fact, today, Finland is already receiving very extensive international information on how, for example, Finnish citizens receive wage income or other income internationally in different countries. This can then also be used to determine whether taxes have been paid in full as they should be. Mr President, I also welcome the fact that these changes, which concern this government proposal and the next government proposal, will make it possible to apply the intermediate law, and will help to prevent this tax evasion in the future. In fact, Mr President, since we are talking more about this prevention of tax evasion, I would ask the Minister to summarise what measures have been taken during your government and by you in order to prevent this tax evasion. We know that this exchange of financial account information came into force during the previous government and has now expanded and has perhaps been the most important means of strengthening this international cooperation. So what measures have your government taken and your actions taken to prevent international tax evasion? Of course, I also consider this proposal to be a small demonstration of the fact that this cooperation is being intensified, but I would ask you, however, to repeat to this great Chamber the measures that are now being taken specifically in the field of international taxation, when it comes to the prevention of tax evasion, your government is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u139	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u140	Mr President! As the so-called Pandora papers and also some public tax fraud proceedings have shown us, the grey economy, tax evasion, continues and causes considerable damage to societies in the form of tax revenue lost. I therefore think that all the work that the government is doing to strengthen the fight against the shadow economy and to combat it better is worthy of praise. Exchanges of information between countries on the income and deposits of foreign nationals there are an important part of the fight against the informal economy. Mr Marttinen asked for concrete action on what the current government has done to combat the black economy. At least there are strict references to this in the government programme, and I noticed that last year the government has also approved such a continuation of the programme to combat the shadow economy. I believe the government will do its best. I am now interested to hear, as far as the Minister for Finance has the answer, what kind of increases in tax revenues could have been calculated and estimated from the intensified fight against the shadow economy. I cannot help but recall that every party in the opposition, when it tries to balance its own alternative budget, puts some more money in the fight against the shadow economy, and this additional effort will generate considerable tax increases. I have the impression that even the present government parties, I think, are even the largest government parties, that at some point there were such programs that they would put 20 million in the fight against the grey economy and it would get 300 million. Let's hope so. Let us also hope that, now that it will present its own alternative budget in the coming weeks, the Coalition Party will not place any unrealistic income calculations on the proceeds of the fight against the shadow economy. Minister, a very specific question: have you been able, in the Ministry of Finance, to assess whether the fight against the shadow economy has been strengthened both at global and European level and at national level, what increases in tax revenues have resulted from this? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u141	Representative Viitanen and then Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u142	Mr President! I would also like to take the floor here, although this was not necessarily the case. We will also deal with this in the tax section properly. It is precisely today that we have agreed that we will be asking for written statements on a large scale here too, although I am sure it will be reasonably clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u145	Let us take Mr Zyskowicz and then Saarikko, although I have just promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u146	Mr President! Briefly and for reasons of order: there was therefore a parliamentary tax division in the Cayman Islands under the leadership of its then president, Kimmo Sas. It may be that Mr Sasi went there otherwise, but at least the tax section's trip was made because it was intended to familiarise itself with these tax havens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u147	Like this. - And now, Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u148	Mr President! We allowed the Netherlands to the Cayman Islands in this debate, but very important reflection, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on Finland's role in international cooperation, on agreements between countries, which was the point here, but with all due respect for tax planning, aggressive tax avoidance, the elimination of such a purpose. I will consider many of the questions you have asked. Firstly, for Mrs Zyskowicz: you have a wonderful, long parliamentary career, and you have indeed seen that politicians, regardless of party, think that the grey economy is a scourge that must be eradicated, and that is what this government thinks. Each in turn thinks, and it certainly unites us, that when taxes are set, they are to be paid in accordance with the law, and efforts are being made to prepare tax legislation so that it is not intended to provide loopholes rather than loopholes, but rather a tax base which is thus clear and clear and predictable that it can also be followed more easily and the motivation to pay remains. This government has not calculated tax revenue on the shadow economy by an estimate equivalent to what you used as an example, but there have been clear estimates of how much tax revenue will increase as a result of the tax base. And as far as Mr Marttinen's good and legitimate question is concerned, what has been done during this parliamentary term, I would make the most of the international work of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. We have to give credit to where it belongs. The Finnish services have worked closely together on the international level, for example, how I would say, all those changes in the tax base, for example, in the scope of the intermediate Community legislation. Another major effort in the years in which Finland has been involved is, of course, this OECD agreement, which was recently approved, which has huge changes in company taxation, and a major change in it is a minimum tax rate. And perhaps I should like to highlight as a single example the regulation of this economic employer, which was the subject of statements in the autumn and which is due next year, which is also linked to changes in tax legislation and thereby to the reduction and elimination of tax avoidance. In my view, the answer to what Finland has done: yes, this historic big solution at the OECD level, which Finland contributed to, is certainly the most important action during this parliamentary term, and then, on the one hand, the cooperation at international level between these country agreements, but above all between tax administrations, on the other hand, is the best way to eradicate these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u149	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Now my presentation is more or less the same as it was just now. There is therefore a similar situation, but here is a proposal for a law with the Netherlands amending the law on the transposition of certain provisions of the Netherlands Antilles under the legislation of the agreements on income tax. This concludes the application of the so-called 'limited tax convention' at the end of this year, and at the same time the law would be repealed by the Article prohibiting the application of the law. A limited tax agreement is a fixed-term agreement, as was the case in the past, but no provision was included in the law on enforcement. Without this proposal, a situation is emerging in which the period of application of the agreement expires, but the law of enforcement remains applicable. This will also come into force from the beginning of next year, and the exchange of information agreement will continue to operate and apply normally. Perhaps, Mr President, as far as this proposal is concerned, that Finland and the Netherlands for the Netherlands Antilles signed a package of two agreements in September 2009. These agreements were an exchange of information agreement and a limited tax agreement. The agreement in question, which ends, is, therefore, the latter, a limited tax agreement which was now considered to be terminated. The limited tax convention has provided specific advantages to the region, including the non-application of the intermediate law, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u151	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u152	Mr President! In this Government's proposal for legislation amending the Act on the additional reduction of research and development activities in tax years 21-25 and Article 56c of the Transfer Tax Act, it is proposed to triple and extend the additional reduction in research and development activities that came into force from the beginning of this year in order to increase effectiveness and predictability, i.e. to triple the existing reduction, increase its importance and volume, and at the same time extend its validity. The aim is to contribute to raising the funding career of R & D activities towards a 4% share of GDP, to which I recognise the broad commitment of parliamentary parties. According to the proposal, eligible R & D expenditure meeting the definitions of the law would be granted a further 150 % reduction from the beginning of next year instead of the current additional 50 % reduction. It is proposed to extend the duration of the law to the end of the year 27 at the same time. In view of the extension of the period of validity, it is proposed to amend the title of the law to correspond to the new years of validity. In addition, this proposal proposes a technical correction to the Transfer Tax Act in order to ensure that the electronic communication possibility also applies to the decisions and documents referred to in the Transfer Tax Act. The proposal relates to the draft budget for 22 years and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it. The laws would enter into force from the beginning of 22 C.E. and would apply for the first time to taxation from 22 C.E. Mr President, I think this proposal is important and good. There are certainly expectations for wider tax solutions in terms of R & D, but I very much welcome this 50% reduction in R & D that has now come into force, and the fact that it will remain in force until the end of the year 27. In other words, those private money stakes, companies that put themselves on the line and want to develop new ones, know that this support for society is possible not only for this year or next but for a longer view, and what is important in research and development is that not everything is always successful or that not all ideas have a single success story. It is important that there is a sufficiently long period of time here, too, so that it can then be assessed — and we, in turn, as decision-makers in society — that this tax reduction and, in a way, financial investment, all these contributions through taxation to research and development and to companies, research institutes, partners and the whole field will certainly be in the right direction, well targeted and certainly effective. That, too, takes a long enough period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u153	Thank you. — and Mr Essayah absent. — — — — Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u154	Mr President! As we have heard, the existing benefit will be slightly improved, that is to say this additional reduction will increase significantly, the reduction from 50 to 150, and indeed the period of validity will then be directed forward. Of course, the idea has just been mentioned of increasing R & D and cooperation with companies and research institutes in this regard. I, too, know that this is very much to be desired and seen as good. Of course, when Finland has a good and important ambition to make a significant contribution to the overall R & D share of GDP, we certainly need incentives of this kind, and I personally see this as positive and important. Then, in a sense, when it is said that the government will never do anything, I think that this is once again a tangible act which will then be able to build our future and our know-how and our survival in the world. Of course, the other side of the coin is that when tax relief is given, it has some effect on tax revenue. This time it has been estimated that the effect of this increase would be minus 11 million and then the effect of the extension would be approximately minus 19 million. Of course, it is important then to follow up what we did in committee the last time we did this, to underline that it is good to see what this is producing, and especially then the link that, when we do make these contributions, which are necessary and significant and positive, they will also have similar results. It is also an important issue. As I said, this is also in our section. This is certainly a good way to deal with it when it represents a positive proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u155	Like this. — and Mr Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u156	Mr. Speaker! Thank you to the Minister for presenting this government proposal and, as the President of the Tax Section has also pointed out here, in practice, it is now proposed to extend the existing provision on the reduction in the sub-contracting of a company's research institute. Now, however, I think it is important to go a little further into this whole of our R&D & D and the contribution of taxation to it. We know that such a reduction is, or is, very bad for SMEs, for example. In practice, however, this means that it is much easier to use such a reduction for a larger company than for a smaller company, if and when, for example, this reduction is not covered by the company's own direct R&D&I expenditure, which is not dealt with in that respect. Now my question really belongs to the Minister: When your government has said quite a lot about this objective that we should raise our R&D & D expenditure in relation to GDP to 4% of GDP in the future, that is, of course, not only done with public contributions, but also requires a significant increase for our companies. So now, once again, we will be able to use fiscal means to give strong support to our companies' R&D&I investments and their increase. We know that this proposed change is still quite cosmetic, although in itself I welcome it with joy that it is now being done. What do you think about whether this R&D&I package and this taxreduction and its content could also be assessed more widely so that these R&D&I expenditures of companies can also be integrated more widely into the scope of the reduction, thereby genuinely creating a clearer incentive to increasetheir R & D & I expenditure? While, of course, these investments always leave the business perspective, we know that this is now very limited to the use of companies. However, business has also wanted a wider reduction that would serve our business field more widely, so how does the Minister feel: firstly, how do you see this obvious contradiction in this 4% GDP target, and how do you see this wider tax reduction role in the future? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u157	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u158	Mr President! Minister! An excellent government proposal aimed at increasing the leverage of the state and public administration in order to make Finland a country that would also be worth investing in and investing in on product development innovation. And it is precisely this that it is perennial that is a sign of the good predictability that the investment sector needs and which is viewed inwards from abroad. One of my acquaintances called from the United States and is interested in battery technology, salt batteries, and asked what kind of investment environment Finland is, so I said that there and there, relatively good, not the best but relatively good in the world. And he asked if there was salt battery technology and the like, so I said that there was actually and that he should visit and be presented to different locations as soon as possible, and hopefully his portfolio of 10 to 200 million would be able to get somewhere in Finland, in Vantaa or Espoo, in other parts of Uusimaa. Yes, these questions of predictability, which are seen years ahead, are worth a lot of gold, and thank you very much for that. The second point in this connection is, of course, that it is now necessary to ensure, and I ask the Minister how it is ensured that those companies which would otherwise invest and for whom this tax reduction would not necessarily be very important — those large companies will, of course, continue to invest and accept this relief, but how could this target be further limited? And I very much hope that Mr Viitanen and the Tax Section will also consider that the companies most in need will actually get it, and that tax relief will not go to those who are already able to give it a hand and get it into the books. Thirdly, the fact that this affects less than EUR 19 million in taxes that the state receives. What is the strongest waiting value for what we have in the long run? This is positive if the minister were to be able to estimate that it is intended to triple this 19 million or ten times it, or to multiply it a hundred times, and then such tax concessions would be broadly acceptable and strongly supported by this Parliament as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u159	Thank you. — And now Mr Salmonikoski and then Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u160	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal proposes to change that additional reduction from the beginning of next year to a higher reduction. A further 150 % reduction would be in place of the current 50 % reduction. The Left Alliance is in favour of raising subsidies for research, but we are somewhat critical of these corporate tax subsidies, which means that the present proposal is not ideal from our point of view, but it is now, of course, fulfilling what has been achieved with this timetable. At the same time, we have this parliamentary task force, which is thinking about raising long-term subsidies for research. There are quite a lot of experts in this working group, and once we have listened, there is criticism of this form of tax subsidies, because tax subsidies are not necessarily targeted at the very companies most in need of this aid for research. On the other hand, on the other hand, this focus may not take so much of this basic research into account, which of course also needs support, such as the Academy of Finland and so on. Well, with regard to the reform of business subsidies, we think that we should support a level playing field for companies in such a way that they will be redirected away from environmentally harmful subsidies in the future. That is why we see that by investing in RK subsidies, we can also develop the Finnish basic industry so that more value added, export income and work can be made available from the raw materials used here. But I would ask the Minister that, although we are dealing here with this particular proposal, how do you see the work of this parliamentary group on research? When we talk about these tax subsidies and other subsidies, we have had so much on the table this fund model, which has been one of the presentations, which has been in the air, that we could receive more long-term RD support in Finland, as in some other countries. How would you like to comment if you were able to make a few comments on this point as well? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u161	And now, Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u162	Mr President! Good debate on this whole. First of all, a few facts now relating to this particular proposal and then to this broader reflection on the importance of aid for research, incentives and research policy. This additional reduction, which already exists, which is now tripled in volume, is imported from 50 to 150 %, and whose time span is brought to a longer length, is a special form of additional reduction, since it only concerns research and development cooperation, not the company's own RD activities. That is why I disagree with Mr Marttinen that this would not be a good system for small businesses in particular, because quite a few small companies have no volume and resources to develop within the company an entire sector of their own, whose task is to invest in research and development, but rather cooperation with universities, educational institutions, research communities is needed. In other words, this is precisely intended to increase the interaction between companies and universities and research institutions, i.e. win-win. The investment in which we give companies a tax incentive will produce and generate good cooperation and thus financial support for higher education and research institutions. As a small country, we must be able to make better use of our own resources, and the importance of this reduction is precisely to bring these closer together. That is why I think that this does not specifically exclude the SME field, but, on the contrary, is the answer to them the easier. But I also agree that it remains to be seen. Their impact assessments are particularly difficult, especially since we have had this in the past, but for a very short time. I think there was a coalition-led board during 13 and 14 such a wider R & D tax incentive, but it was considered at the time a model of bureaucratic. It was considered unforeseeable, and it was not at all reduced by the fact that its initial short period of application was reduced even further, and generally tax solutions are not the best, i.e. short-term and short-term solutions. This incentive did not show any statistically significant effects in time in the studies. It is therefore important to say it out loud and to stress that there are different parameters here and that a longer time span and its effectiveness can therefore be verified. As far as the importance of these R & D incentives is concerned, the latest international research literature shows that they are in practice the best innovation policy instruments. It is not my opinion, therefore, but the report on research literature, which states: ‘Installation analysis makes reference to the fact that most of the effectiveness is achieved through a clear and stable R & D tax relief system. In the newer literature, R & D tax incentives’—that is to say, This is also in view of the parliamentary group on which I personally believe that the state's contribution, which is a rather large, big question, how it is managed, could also be dealt with by means of taxation by means of a broader incentive, which was also on the agenda of the government's budgetary negotiations. However, this was the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u163	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — And again, Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u164	Mr President! Next show, 188. In its proposal for a law amending Article 31 of the Tax Act and the related laws, it is proposed to amend the Act on the Taxation Procedure, the VAT Act, the Act on the Taxation of Business Income and the Act on the Consolidated Loss of a Subsidiary located in the European Economic Area — a number of amendments. The main amendments to the proposal concern the transfer pricing adjustment rule of the Tax Procedure Act, which would provide for certain elements of transfer pricing analysis at an even more precise level. What is the goal? The aim is to allow transfer pricing adjustments to be made in the future to the full extent of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. National rules would therefore be in line with that provision of the OECD Model Tax Convention and the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for the Interpretation of Tax Agreements. It is proposed that the transfer pricing adjustment provision should at the same time include an indication that transfer pricing is assessed within the framework of the arm's length principle. It would therefore be a question of clarification. Moreover, the provision would clarify that an analysis of the market economy of transactions would always include the determination of the transaction according to its actual content. In exceptional circumstances and subject to the conditions set out in the provision, the proposed regulation would allow the related transaction to be excluded and, where appropriate, replaced by another transaction in accordance with the arm's length principle. This proposal is based on the record of the Government Programme on International Taxation. The changes would therefore make domestic transfer pricing regulation similar to that of other countries. This also relates to the draft budget for the year 22 and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it, and this proposal would also come into force from the beginning of next year, according to the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u165	Like this. — Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u166	Mr President! An important, good, necessary proposal, and here is one example of what was asked in the previous paragraph, what the government is doing in order to address the various loopholes in the legislation which will then allow these profits to be transferred to tax havens. [MikaNiikkoarvo] Let's get to the point, Speaker. This is one example that was specifically needed, and I think it is absolutely good that it has now come to Parliament, that is to say, the tax base is being strengthened, tax avoidance is being curbed thanks to this proposal. And of course this has to do with such a whole that when you think about these things that are happening today, these are things that at least give me a lot of feedback and which the citizens do not see as fair: at the same time, when we need tax returns, so that we can take care of our elderly people, improve education, take care of their children and invest in human health, it is not right that the tax burden should then only be increased for those on low incomes, on the contrary, many low income pensioners, the wage earner rather deserves relief from the tax burden. In order to safeguard common resources and maintain a good welfare society, we need a broader tax base and we need to be able to close loopholes in tax legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u167	And Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u168	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of another government proposal to the Grand Hall. This proposal therefore concerns the pricing of transactions between associated companies and a greater international connection and the guidance through the OECD on how this pricing should be carried out. Mr. Speaker! On the opposition side, I have not yet been able to fully address the proposal — as the Minister knows, it is a rather complex regulation of international taxation — but I would just like to say a few principles on which I believe we agree. Firstly, it is quite clear that tax avoidance should not be allowed in Finland or internationally under any circumstances. It is quite clear that we must have clear rules and clear regulations on how to deal with these situations. At the same time, I would also like to say that our companies, which operate in Finland, are often international players, have international structures where they operate, and it is absolutely essential that, from the point of view of companies, taxation and tax legislation are predictable, clear and consistent. This is one factor, Mr President, which I would like to address separately in the tax section. We have had our first consultation on this issue today, and I believe that this issue can be taken forward in good cooperation with the government parties. It will then remain to be seen what will be said in this hearing itself, but I believe that these guiding principles are such that we will certainly share them from the point of view of the government parties. And I think it is also quite right to point out this aspect, and I consider it quite right in itself that when regulation is based on the OECD guidelines, it should be followed as consistently as possible between countries. At the same time, however, it should facilitate the implementation of taxation and also prevent tax disputes and other ambiguities in the future, but of course it will remain to be seen what changes this proposal will bring to light. Mr. Speaker! In principle, I believe that we share the very same principles in this Chamber as regards how these matters should be dealt with, but there are still certain questions with regard to this proposal which must then be clarified separately at the section stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u169	Thank you. — Representative Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, Finland has not always been at the forefront of the anti-tax evasion front. I remember situations from back in the year when we have even been a brake, but we are fortunately on the right track. It is known that our regulation has been weaker than the OECD average, and now we are catching up with the Gap, we are heading for that front line. This proposal is in line with the objectives of the Government Programme and the Left Alliance. Transfer pricing, i.e. the pricing of transactions between companies belonging to the same group, is one of the most serious market distortions and financing factors for the welfare state. Regrettably, even today, international companies still make huge profits in welfare countries, including the poorer countries, in developing countries, but transfer profits through internal pricing to countries where there is little or no tax burden on them. And it is great — we must now praise the United States — that The new regime in Biden has taken up this tax evasion as a whole rather firmly. For example, this presentation takes Finland much further now, but there is still a lot to do. This opposition to tax avoidance must not remain, but the Biden regime has indeed gone on a much stronger path than the European Union to take against tax havens and have, for example, put intra-European tax havens, such as Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, before the mirror to see how corporate taxation is organised. Yes, it is important within Europe that Finland should continue to be one of those countries that are calling for a much stricter line, that the EU should not be the anchor of the OECD that is dragging behind it, but that it should be an active player and support these measures by the Biden regime. Of course, these tax losses are a key problem in this tax evasion, but I think that this distortion of competition may be even greater. Neither a small Finnish company nor even a slightly larger Finnish company can compete on the international market in the same way as some corporate giants who have hundreds of employees simply optimizing taxes — they say so beautifully. And yes, it's very important that we get... The market economy can only function when it works fairly, and it is good that Finland is now doing its part to correct its own legislation, but I am encouraging that we are then also those who are trying to push it forward both within the EU and within the OECD.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u171	Thank you. — Mr Salmonikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u172	Mr President! Transfer pricing, i.e. the pricing of transactions between companies belonging to the same group, is a phenomenon that calls into question the fundamental assumptions of world trade. It is often thought that the price mechanism controls companies operating on the market, but it is not always the case. However, according to different estimates, between 30% and 60% of world trade takes place within companies. In other words, a significant part of world trade is the planned economy of companies — you heard correctly: the planned economy of companies. Such large groups are able to operate outside the market and avoid taxes. As a result, economic power is concentrated and public finances are suffering. This is also about fairness, as Mr Viitanen said, and indeed about the sustainability of public finances, as Mr Saramo spoke about. The aim of this Government proposal is to strengthen transfer pricing rules in Finland and to apply the OECD transfer pricing guidelines to the full extent. The proposal is in line with the objectives of the government and also the Left Alliance to make international taxation fairer and also has budgetary strengthening effects. After all, the tax administration has estimated that the proposed changes in their entirety could lead to an annual increase of between EUR 50 million and EUR 100 million, so the proposal is very welcome. Thank you to the Minister for Finance for presenting this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u173	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u174	Mr President! It is a good thing that these transfer pricing mechanisms are constantly being reviewed and that there are, of course, uniform procedures for the OECD and the EU, because these transfer price problems mentioned in the previous two speeches are quite everyday problems. Certainly this will be done, and large companies in general also have the potential to invest enormously in legal and tax expertise. After all, there are skills and there are also resources to do the job, even if there are people who have been hired there full-time, who know the job well. As far as taxation in Finland is concerned, I have the courage to claim that in Finland such a tax avoidance system is possible, but we have a tax system that is so impeccable that in business taxation — I do not know it exactly, but what I know from my limited experience — the tax authority knows exactly what the income and expenditure of Finnish entrepreneurs is and the audit works. And then if someone tries something, it is very likely that they will get caught believing it. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u177	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u178	Mr President! This second speech is perhaps more of a broader one on tax avoidance and tax avoidance. With this I would also like to highlight a few aspects which I find many times forgotten from the debate when we discuss in this Chamber such proposals as how tax evasion can be addressed. In fact, Mr Hoskonen, a long-standing parliamentarian, whom I very much appreciate, has also made quite a lot of sense to me once again in his speech in this Chamber, because I think it is important that those measures and regulations genuinely address the problems where it can be seen that there are problems. I would like to take as an example the interest rate relief situations for loans between the partner parties, which were addressed by the regulation that entered into force in 2014. This regulation then expanded whether it was 2018 or 2019, including loans from third parties, i.e. also bank loans. Of course, if I reflect on this out loud, what tax evasion has to do with such a situation, if a Finnish company, which finances its investments with foreign capital, wants to grow, employ, invest in Finland. What tax evasion situations are involved in such a bank loan from a third party? Nothing. Instead, I understand why, for example, loan arrangements between such a national group of companies, their right to deduct interest, have been limited. It makes a lot of sense, and I think it is justified that it has been done. Mr. Speaker! With this speech, I would just like to say that when we talk about combating tax evasion, we must also be able to demonstrate in complete detail the situations and the reasons why some new regulation is being introduced. The argument that we want to combat tax evasion is not only sufficient, but must also be able to show the situations that it addresses, because otherwise, Mr President, we will be forced into a loophole. I believe that the same problems have been associated with, for example, this regulation on the actual place of management, which we discussed a year ago, which now affects, for example, such service companies in Finland, through which foreign investment funds are managed — without going any further into this content. In fact, I would ask the Minister: do you agree that these are the targets?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u179	Congressman Suomela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u180	Mr President! This proposal is basically about fairness, that when different companies operate in Finland and around the world, the treatment is as similar as possible regardless of the size and country of the company. This takes the Finnish procedure towards the OECD guidelines, which is of course also a good thing for companies when it comes to anticipating activities and precisely companies operating in more than one country. It is, of course, better that the rules of the various countries are more similar, making the field of action simpler and clearer. When it comes to fairness, I think Mr Saramo raised an important point. It is an unfair situation if legislation is so complicated that smaller companies, which do not have the same legal or other professional resources, are less able to compete than operators who have more opportunities to look for loopholes and then make use of them. This is ultimately the responsibility of our co-legislators: it is up to us to make legislation with as few loopholes as possible. Congressman Marttinen raised a good point of view. Of course, then we must be aware of what these loopholes are, what size they are, how they can be blocked most effectively. In this context, it should be pointed out that one way of strengthening this data collection is, of course, to strengthen university-level research. It is known that we have a huge number of talented researchers, both in Finland and in the world, who want to map these loopholes and also ways to fix them, and it is important to ensure that there is sufficient resources for this research. In this respect, the activities of NGOs are also relevant. They, as an independent party, can do important expert work so that we know what steps should be taken to ensure that our tax system is fair, efficient and that too much bureaucracy is avoided. That is why this is part of the wider package and the broader measures to eradicate tax avoidance. It is great that in this Chamber, after today's debate on the subject, it has been possible to share the objective of tackling tax avoidance when considering strengthening the funding of the welfare state and also bringing the operating conditions of the various companies into line. It is important that small Finnish companies do not have any lower operating conditions because large international operators can avoid taxes more easily, for example. So from that point of view, this is also a question of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u181	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u182	Thank you, Mr President. This transfer pricing, and all that is now at the heart of the proposal, is therefore a perfectly normal and necessary part of international trade. This is done under the arm's length principle of taxation, and yes, that principle is slightly strengthened by this proposal. Mr Marttinen raised the version of this consultation, and that is why this proposal has now been amended. If I could just say a few more words about this performance itself: Thus, the Transfer Pricing Code provides for intra-group pricing, in particular when the group companies are located in different countries. The aim, therefore, is now, in taxation, to set a price which is as close as possible to a price that would have been agreed and used in practice by independent parties in this context. This proposal, therefore, brings the so-called OECD transfer pricing rules to the law and thus allows the tax administration to intervene in exceptional circumstances in order to determine, on the basis of facts, that a legal act is something other than what it would be on the basis of documents, for example. Of course, at the same time it is important to ensure that the solutions are always based on a genuine overall consideration based on all relevant factors, not on arbitrary behaviour. I also agree with Mr Hoskonen’s assessment that whenever we talk about ‘enterprises’,it is important,however,to have a realistic picture of the fact that this regulation does notreduce all problems,but not,in all cases,the business field does not attempt to break the loopholes andactions. We have a huge number of companies which, although following good tax practices, comply with the law, and yes, the Finnish tax administration also deserves a good mention in this regard that the Finnish tax administration, as I understand it, will do everything in its power to be sufficiently understood by companies so that they can also act legally.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u183	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saarikko, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Now comes the presentation of this long set of tax laws HE 189. In this proposal for a law amending the VAT Act to Parliament, it is proposed that purchases made by the European Commission or by an agency or body established under EU law to respond to the covid-19 pandemic are exempt from VAT. That is the essence of this performance. This VAT law would include provisions exempting imports of goods and intra-Community acquisitions by the Commission or by an EU agency or body. The sale of goods and services to the Commission or the EU agency or body would also be exempt from the tax. This would be the so-called zero rate for sales, i.e. the tax included in the purchases made for these sales could be deducted or re-applyed by means of a refund procedure. However, the tax exemption would only apply to situations where the Commission or the EU agency or body would acquire goods and services in the performance of tasks assigned to it by Union law to respond to its covid-19 pandemic. The exemption would not apply to situations where the goods and services acquired are used for resales for consideration by the Commission or the EU agency or body. This too would come into force from the beginning of next year, and it is proposed that the law be applied retroactively from the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u185	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Saarikko, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Now the proposal HE 190, which is a proposal from the Government for the amendment of Articles 2 and 39 of the Excise Act and the Act on the taxation of own-initiative taxes. It is proposed that the amendments that are necessary for the implementation of the excise duty directive should be carried out and, to a large extent, these changes are only more specific to the current regulation. The proposal is of a very technical nature and proposes, among other things, to extend the use of the automated control system. In addition, the provisions on the movement of excisable products in situations where customs legislation also applies in part would be further specified. And then some other clarifications and updates would be made at the same time. These laws are intended to enter into force on 13 February 2023, when the Directive is to apply in the Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u187	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u191	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u192	Mr President! Indeed, eight different tax laws were now in place in this afternoon, and other proposals have been put forward and presented in recent weeks. I would like to wish Mr Viitanen in that section and, therefore, the entire Committee on Finance and the members of the section, in particular, the strength to deal with these proposals. And yes, I am happy to give every support to the fact that the Department of Finance will allow these proposals to be processed smoothly. I am at peace with the fact that they are, as usual, prepared by the VM's services of quality, but if the committee, as your task is to do, finds some clarification needs, the political conditions for making decisions will of course be, as always, within the committee. All the expert information that can be provided to you from the VM, in addition to expert consultations, we will be happy to bring.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u193	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Minister Sarkkinen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u194	Mr President! As part of the negotiations on the draft budget for 2022, the Government also outlined fast-acting measures to boost employment, which support the availability of skilled labour and improve the matching of labour. In order to promote employment among young people, the government decided to add a protective component to the military grant. The proposal proposes to change the concept of the revenue of military assistance. The amendment concerns those in military and civil service and those engaged in voluntary military service for women. Mr President! The current concept of income from military assistance is strict and differs from that of other benefits implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. The concept of income has been perceived as unfair because the remuneration for the work performed during the service is deducted in full from the grant paid. At its worst, a strict income concept can increase the shadow economy. The concept of income will be supplemented by a protective component on the wages and entrepreneurship income of the employee, and these revenues will be taken into account in excess of the hedging component. The protection component is EUR 200. The purpose of the change is to make work during the ministry more profitable and encouraging. Maintaining contact with working life or with your own business is useful for post-service employment and activity. In the course of the ministry, there are currently relatively few jobs to be done. The estimated cost impact of the amendment on central government expenditure is EUR 200000 per year and the law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u195	Thank you for the introduction. — And Mrs Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u196	Mr President! I will be brief when this government proposal is also short. This EUR 200 contribution is a very good thing. We know how much goes into the army after school. There is a professional high school, a university, a vocational school, and during the course of education, you often go into some kind of working life and are already in it, and this is a good way to stick to the fact that even in the army, you can go and do a little distance work for a company where you worked during your studies. You'll be able to help that company, you'll get a little income, and you won't immediately cut your income. This will help you to stay a little involved in that work during the army.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u197	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u198	Mr President! It may be that many times the opposition here has not been able to thank the government, but when there is cause for it, it is worth giving it honestly and directly. And this is a proposal, Minister, that I sincerely thank you and the government for bringing it into this Chamber. We know that many conscripts and women have a very tight income, and military assistance has been created precisely so that those who perform military service can pay their rent and their families can cope with that service. At least it does not occur to me that if, on weekend leave, a conscript or a conscript wants to take a job or go to the company to do a small job or run a business itself, until today every single euro has cut the amount of military aid received in full. Now it's gonna get a little better.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u202	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u203	Honorable Mr. Speaker! Thank you, Mr Marttinen, for his good, constructive speech and for the fact that the direction of the opposition will also be commended for the fact that, of course, this is also good with regard to the impact on employment. But then we must also remember that, at the moment, we also have the most defence-minded government in the country, which is also reflected in good government performances. Mr Marttinen said that was today's only thanks to the opposition. Earlier in this Chamber, we discussed, among other things, the creation of Tehokantava Oy, and there was also constructive opposition feedback on these employment measures. Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation and presentation. This has also been a long-term goal for the Military Union. The Armours Federation has been pushing for a long time for this protective part to be set up. In addition to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Finnish National Pensions Agency, written comments on this proposal were also made by the Minister for Defence, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Finnish Pensions Association, and all commentators considered that this proposal was necessary and in the right direction. Well, an estimated 300 employees would increase with this change, and the overall impact on government expenditure would be around EUR 200,000. But when we start to look at it the other way around to see how much this will bring back in terms of tax revenue and employment, I believe that this 200,000 will come back to the national economy. I would also like to thank both the government and the opposition for their constructive contributions and for the fact that the will to defend the country is moving forward and employment is also improving in the direction of young men and women, even if they are engaged in military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u204	Thank you. — Minister Sarkkinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u205	Mr President! I thank Parliament for its thanks. This is perhaps a minor flaw in social security as a whole, but it is also a matter of principle and of practical importance for individuals to carry out military and civil service, that this minor flaw in the social security system is now being corrected and harmonised also in relation to other social security benefits, where these components have been made and sought to encourage it to coordinate social security and work in various life situations. Of course, it is also important to keep people in work even during its military and civil service. Indeed, this is now a head start, this EUR 200 safeguard, and progress towards the better. At the moment, there is very little work in the field of military and civil service, so it has also been estimated that such a relatively small component of protection will make good progress, but of course in the future, in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u206	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Sarkkinen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u207	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the Act on the financing of unemployment benefits is now under discussion. The proposal proposes to provide for unemployment insurance contributions in 2022. Unemployment insurance contributions are parafiscal contributions collected to finance unemployment benefit, the amount of which must be regulated annually by law. The collection of unemployment insurance contributions is carried out by the Employment Fund. It is proposed to increase the total amount of unemployment insurance contributions by 0.32 percentage points. It is proposed to increase the employee's unemployment insurance contribution by 0.15 percentage points and the employer's average unemployment insurance contribution by 0.17 percentage points. The employee's unemployment insurance contribution would therefore be 1.40 per cent of the salary next year and the employer's unemployment insurance contribution 0.50 per cent of the salary up to and above EUR 2169000. The proposed rates of unemployment insurance premiums are based on a forecast of an average unemployment rate of 7.1% in 2022. The proposed provisions would enter into force at the beginning of 2022. The proposed increase in unemployment insurance contributions is due to the large increase in unemployment expenditure caused by the interest rate pandemic, which has had a significant impact on the economy of the Employment Fund. Expenditure under the responsibility of the Fund is still rising compared to the period before the interest rate pandemic. According to the Employment Fund, a moderate increase in unemployment insurance contributions will ensure the financing of the fund's liquidity and unemployment security for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u208	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Mr Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u209	Mr President! The proposal proposes to extend some of the derogations on unemployment benefit in force until the end of November. The aim of the proposal is to simplify the implementation of unemployment benefit and thus reduce the workload required to process applications for benefits. The proposal proposes that the special conciliation period and its imputed income should not be applied on a provisional basis. It is also proposed that the unemployment benefit may be temporarily continued to be paid in advance on the basis of the application for a maximum period of six months. These changes have not been estimated to have significant economic effects. The amendments extend the derogations for the implementation of the unemployment benefit, which have been found appropriate during the interest rate. These derogations have contributed to a timely and transparent response from the point of view of beneficiaries and have simplified the implementation of unemployment security. During the period of validity of the temporary derogations next year, it is intended to assess more precisely whether it would be appropriate to provide for such derogations to reduce the benefit treatment on a permanent basis. The Act is intended to enter into force on 1 December 2021 and to be provisionally in force until 31 December 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u210	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — The debate begins. Congressman Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u211	Mr President! In this government proposal, it is positive that it includes, for example, an extended right of appeal for the construction of wind turbines. For this we thank you. However, this proposal to amend the Land Use and Construction Act contains some flaws, which is why I will make proposals in accordance with the Multi-Security Statement: ‘1 )The Commission requires the Government to monitor that changes in the law on use and construction do not cause 2) Parliament requires clarification of the methods of consultation and review of the Land Use and Building Law.’
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u212	Congressman Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u213	Mr President! I support Mrs Huru's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u214	Congressman Sankelo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u215	Mr President! I will make a proposal in line with the objections of the Assembly: ‘It requires the Government to clarify andencouragethe use and building law and review processes in
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u216	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u217	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u218	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u219	Mr President! This is a matter on which there has been a debate and debate on many occasions in this Chamber, and I think it is right to say that we are talking about an important factor that could influence the logistics costs of the Finnish export industry. We know that Finland is far behind the seas here, and in practice all our goods go across the sea to Europe, Western Europe or the rest of the world, where the market is again. We also know that logistics costs have increased steadily. And it must also be said that the government of this country has also, through its own measures, contributed to the fact that this has happened, because, for example, fuel taxation has been drastically tightened, which will then also contribute to the costs of industry and business and will also be borne by transport companies. The Coalition Party has supported a complete abolition of bus charges. At the moment, they're being carried in halves. Originally, this system was created in such a way as to cover the cost of icebreaking again by means of fairway charges, but now that, however, half of the fairway charges have been charged for a long time, it seems to me that it is no longer justified to link these two issues together, but it is justified that the costs of icebreaking be covered as a single instalment from the state budget as they are and as they are currently being covered.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u224	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u225	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Marttinen, for your excellent speech, and I will continue with that. The key question is that what does Finland need exports for? We need exports so that we can finance imports that are vital for Finland. As Mr Marttinen said, this is a question of our being able, by means of a small measure, to support our export industry — and hence jobs — and to create more well-being in Finland. In this context, I must mention that in the early days of the interest rate, in the spring of 2020, I took a legislative initiative on this issue, namely the abolition of the fairway charge in full, and at that time more than 90% of experts were already in favour of abolishing the fairway charges, i.e. more than 90%. Well, this government did not want to do it, and this is now some sort of rowing and felting with this half — which has been in force since the time of the Katainen government, but it is not right that companies should always have to wait for that decision every year or a few years in cycles, but that removal would make a clear path for companies to invest and develop the future. The price is 50 million a year, and that is not a large sum if we look at the dynamic effects that the removal of the fairway charge could have. Above all, the competitiveness of companies, the Finnish export industry, the very chimneys, the factories that we, as representatives from the provinces here, are extremely important in our regions as employers and creators of well-being, and I do feel that there is a common agenda and mission that will enable us to keep our pride in many cities around Finland on the high ground, and I strongly resent the idea that Finland will rise from this interest rate and challenging time by keeping taxes, or tax-related charges high. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u226	Congressman Kotiaho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u227	Mr President! I object to the proposal for a statement of objections: ‘The Commission requires that the governmentensures delays in measures which ensure the competitiveness of both shipping and export sectors in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u228	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u229	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Kotiaho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u230	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u231	Mr President! It is essential for the Finnish export industry that transport to the world leaves at such a cost that we remain competitive. Finland is a state entirely dependent on foreign trade, more than 90 per cent of our export income, of outgoing goods go by shipping to the rest of the world, which means that shipping is the most important thing. And now that the fairway charges are halved or halved until the end of 23 C.E., I would be happy to see the situation that the government is now taking seriously the idea of being able to make a permanent decision on this matter so that they do not need to be dealt with separately. The second point in this connection is that now that this emissions trading is being developed and even for these transports the cost of emissions trading is being increased, we negotiators must remember that when we are here in the north corner and especially in the winter period, these various additional costs, such as those imposed on Finland through emissions trading, are hindering our maritime transport and, above all, our competitiveness — that we are a state entirely dependent on export revenues, and that our goods, which we export to the world, are very traditionally huge in terms of transport capacity. I hope that a long-term perspective will be taken forward on this issue and that a legal solution will be adopted to anchor this fairway payment business at a certain level, and that it will then be maintained so that we can be credible and reliable in telling our partners how much we have in this country, so that we can reach such a situation that is known to everyone, and everyone can count on this to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u232	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u233	Mr President! It has now been suggested, from the opposition parties' point of view, that bus charges should be abolished. The Coalition Party argued that from the beginning of 22 C.E. these fairway charges would be abolished. As such, everything that relates to our export and export industries, the taxes and charges associated with them, of course, it is always worth going through and wondering whether they will then be more useful or detrimental to the proper debate in that sense. But now, especially in the direction of the assembly, a question must be asked. You have much marketed and advertised the alternative budget, so now we have to ask at this stage of the evening and the time that if last year this revenue from bus charges has been in the state's treasury for between EUR 40 million and EUR 45 million, then where will this money be taken from when you are about to propose that, at the beginning of next year, this bus charge will be completely abolished, because this revenue should then be replaced in some other way. It seems to me that there is no possibility at this stage, and yet there has been a lot of debate on this responsible spending of money recently, and especially on the opposition side, the coalition has always taken care of the state's treasury, so we have to ask whether, in the alternative budget, you now have a record of this reduction in the revenue of between 40 and 45 million. Then where is it taken from? I bet it wasn't from the lottery money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u234	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u235	Mr President! It is always pleasant when a member of the government party asks for tips on financial management from the assembly — [Jomas Kettunen’s interlude] We already had this proposal in the alternative budget for this year, and the funding had been managed, and even then, debt-taking was more restrained than in the government budget. And don't worry, don't worry, the alternative budget is coming up and it's completely well funded there, and it's not worrying about that. In other words, patiently waiting and trusting that the coalition's economic line will gradually spread to the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u236	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u237	Honorable Speaker! In the middle of the last decade, the revenue from these fairway charges has reached a maximum of 87 million, and now, indeed, last year, it was between EUR 40 and EUR 45 million. But, President, I still did not get a response to this in relation to the changing budget of the opposition, especially the coalition, that from where these funds will be taken,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u240	Thank you. — And Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u241	Mr. Speaker! Yes, I do not really know how I would react to the fact that the government's ranks become such surveys of responsible finances, given that this country's government is the first government in the 21st century that has violated its spending framework, significantly undermined the credibility of fiscal policy, passed six times on employment decisions and took tens of billions of dollars in debt, while, in this situation, there are already grounds for tightening the fiscal policy line. But, Mr President, I will not go any further on this issue, but I would like to say that, on the subject of concern, this matter has been covered in our alternative budget, as all the other items have been and have been in the past two years. With regard to the subject of this issue, I would like to say that, in fact, the abolition of fairway charges would also significantly increase the efficiency of transport and would also be justified from an environmental point of view. In other words, if you think that a shipping company carrying maritime transport is looking for goods or containers in several ports or whatever it is looking for, it will have to pay bus fares separately for each port, and that this shipping company will also have no interest in going as if it were to combine these transports, which would allow the efficiency of these transports to be increased accordingly, and, consequently, full container volumes, full volumes of transport, which would then also be fully justified from an environmental point of view. Mr President, these points of view should also be made here. I think Mr Hoskone has said well here that there should be a permanent solution. Well, of course, it should be a permanent solution for our businesses and business to know exactly how to go from here on out. I believe, of course, that the most well-founded solution is for the fairway charges to be permanently abolished and, therefore, to reduce the cost burden for our industry. Mr. Speaker! Let me conclude by saying that Finland's overall tax rate is already quite high enough, that it would be justifiable to go in the other direction of this lust taxation, which would give more room for growth and better livelihoods, employment. This is a small proposal among them, but I think it is perfectly justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u242	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u243	Mr President! It is indeed the case that this should not only be calculated as an expense item or a savings item or similar, but that if Finland's competitiveness improves, it also means that tax revenue will come before it. As far as I am concerned, even though we did not ask so many questions, it was the same and we have an alternative budget, and we have not only this fairway fee but also where we find money for the police and where we find the inclusion of professional diesel in this job. That is what it is based on, so to speak, in the shadow budget, all that money has been wasted, and that is where it will be found. I can tell you a lot of places where we could take a lot more money to the government: immigration — which we always remember — secondary education
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u244	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 13/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Keto-Huovinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u245	Thank you, Mr President. The Government's proposal proposes to shorten some of the retention periods for the records of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. This is justified, inter alia, by more detailed compliance with the requirements of EU data protection legislation, including in the activities of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The security data register contains information collected during imprisonment in order to prevent offences or maintain institutional security. Data are collected on prisoners and inmates who may reasonably be suspected of committing a crime that may result in imprisonment. The Criminal Sanctions Agency is currently also allowed to process information on persons meeting and otherwise contacting prisoners and prisoners in order to maintain the institutional order and security. With regard to the above-mentioned registers, the Government proposes to reduce the retention periods by deleting the information on the appointments and other persons in contact with the prisoners or prisoners of inquiry no later than two years after the date of the meeting or any other communication and the prohibition of visitation no later than two years after the end of the ban. At present, the period for the deletion of such data is five years. This change is justified by the fact that data older than two years cannot be considered necessary for the purpose of the data. The Government will also propose a maximum retention period of five years from the last entry in the security repository, and according to the law currently in force this period is ten years. This shortening of the data retention period is also justified by the need for data. Mr President! In the opinion of the Assembly, the government's proposal is problematic in view of previous statements from experts in the Legal Committee on weakened prison security, and that is why the committee's report contains an objection from Finns and the National Coalition Party. Threats and aggression against staff have increased both in prisons and in leisure time, with strong links to organised crime and, in particular, the increase in the number of JR prisoners in our prisons. There has also been an increase in inter-prisoner violence, often due to drug crime, the pressure involved and the debt ratios. The total number of prisoners in our prisons has fallen, but at the same time the proportion of prisoners requiring intensive supervision has increased, and in this situation it is not justified to hinder the maintenance of prison security as proposed by the government. Mr President! Removal of information on persons who are in contact with prisoners two years after the date of the meeting or any other communication would in practice mean that, in many cases, the contact information of long-term prisoners would be removed during the execution of the sentence. We believe that this is a risk to the maintenance of plant safety. The same applies to information contained in the security data register, which may include, inter alia, information related to the prisoner’s correspondence and telephone calls, information related to the prison security check, information received by the Criminal Sanctions Agency, and information on exceptional incidents that endanger security in prison. One cannot help but wonder why these retention periods are being reduced at all when this would clearly undermine prison security. On the basis of a report received by the Legal Committee, there are no obstacles to longer retention periods due to Union law, provided that there are relevant grounds for the maximum retention period in relation to the requirement of necessity. The erasure periods under the existing law were originally provided for by the Constitutional Committee, and the Constitutional Committee, in its opinion 27/2021 to the Legal Committee, continued to stress that the longer the data retention period will be, the more essential it will be to ensure security, control of the use of the data and legal protection of the data subject. Adequate and reasonable retention of information on meeting persons and other persons who contact the prisoner is essential for maintaining institutional order and security. Similarly, the information contained in the security repository has an important role to play in preventing offences during imprisonment and maintaining institutional security. Such information may be considered necessary for a long time after its registration. The previous expert hearings of the Legal Committee have revealed the significant strengthening of the role of organised crime in prisons in recent years and the deterioration of prison security, to which I referred earlier. These factors in particular highlight the need for sufficiently long maximum retention periods and we therefore believe that these maximum retention periods should not be reduced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u246	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u247	Mr President! I am not going to repeat Mr Keto-Huovinen's excellent speech and the content of what is at stake here in relation to these eras, but I would say that here is the very first cause of amazement that why the government of this kind of thing, precisely this strong increase in organised crime and its impact on prison security. Now, in so far as some representatives are not familiar, when there may not be enough time to study everything here, the Criminal Sanctions Agency, in connection with this internal security report, made a statement on this report and, in this own statement, paints an extremely worrying picture, both statistically and in terms of content, of what really is a security problem in prisons. They tell us here that violence has increased not only among prisoners but also among prison workers in particular, and that is really not just a threat. We see this same phenomenon across Europe. Europol is doing this sort of SOCTA report, from which it is worth looking at what is happening in Europe around this issue, organised crime. The same can be seen here in Finland, but it will get worse. In that regard, we find it very bad that the government is bringing in such reductions in prison security retention periods to Parliament. That should by no means be done here. And, as Mr Keto-Huovinen has said, there is really no need for data protection in the EU, and in fact there is no need for the Constitutional Committee if there are grounds for long storage periods, as is the case here. In fact, these retention periods are being reduced to such short limits that they may not even be sufficient for the entire duration of the sentence, which in itself is a problem. I would like data protection not to be used as such. We cannot make it into a monster that eventually eats its own head, as it may now come to mind. Mr President! In view of the above, I propose that Article 31 of the 1st draft law: would be adopted in the form of an objection to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u248	It is not until tomorrow that proposals will be made at the hearing. — Mr Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u249	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! We know that work is being done in the same Committee on Legal Affairs and I am sure that we will get to grips with things as well as we can and can, but of course ourselves, two years now sitting in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I have also learned to rely quite strongly on the preparation of the ministry and on those experts and, above all, on the expert hearings we hear. And I think one of the key guidelines is to listen with a sensitive ear to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is quite a close committee to the Committee on Legal Affairs. I am sure the same statements have been referred to here, which means that I myself have this statement on the government's proposal, that is 27/21, a recent statement, and it has been said that, with regard to the maximum retention periods for data, the Constitutional Committee refers to an interpretation in which it has kept a five-year retention period for sensitive information long. They also refer to the previous opinion of 2017 and stress that the longer the data retention period becomes, the more essential it is to ensure security, control of the use of data and the legal security of the data subject, and that this sensitivity and limitation is emphasised. On the basis of this overall analysis, we have gone as proposed by this government, and I am sure that it is not the intention of the ministry as a responsible ministry to undermine the security of prisons, but that there has been an overall consideration which the committee has also carried out here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u250	Thank you. — And Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u251	Mr President! Many may think that the criminal boss or drug dealer’s business always breaks down when he is taken inside walls to prison. That's not true. When an essential criminal gang member is taken to sit in prison, he is still able to receive and send messages and commands through meetings in prison’s guest hours. Is it wrong to keep records of prisoners’ meetings in the books of the authorities for several years, just in case? Sanna Marin's government thinks it is. As a result, the government is demanding that information on detention meetings be erased earlier, on the basis of data protection. At the same time, however, the government that is concerned about data protection is endangering the safety of society and prisons. For example, a criminal boss in prison can agree on drug trafficking or even order murder at meetings. When a crime happens in due course, a guest note should be found at the meeting, which is very necessary for the investigation of the crime. If you have clean flour in a bag, someone who sits in prison and meets him, you don't have to worry about keeping records of the meeting for two or five years. If the meeting is linked to criminal activity, both of them will certainly want all possible registers cleared as soon as possible. Data protection issues must be taken into account, but not at the expense of ignoring the safety of prisons and society. Information on prisoner meetings is not kept for fun, so that the authority can check them for time. They are maintained because they are necessary for the fight against crime. We want to bring down this legal amendment to the Marin government and maintain the current situation. We want the investigation of the crime not to be made more difficult, of course, but to be made more difficult. Now get some lights on in that government. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u252	Thank you. — And Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u253	Mr President! I am a little puzzled, but I do understand Mr Huttunen's point of view that all wisdom lives in the Ministry and whatever comes out of it, it must be very wise and very necessary. I have imagined that this process goes by the way that the government is doing a government programme, pushing a certain number of laws into it, whether they are necessarily sensible or not — perhaps not from this point of view either — then this is going to go to the consultation, and on the basis of the feedback the bill should be corrected before it comes to Parliament, and there is a new round of consultations here, particularly with regard to those who are affected by this law, and then those problems should be corrected from there. But, as I have seen over the past two years, this process is not going to work out, but it is going to go so far as to break through sometimes, quite frankly, whatever happens, even if these problems have been raised here in the expert hearings, as we see here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u256	Thank you. — Mr Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u257	Mr President! I think I have just said that I have learned to trust in the preparation of the ministries. I have learned to rely on what we hear in the hearings — we hear a lot of experts in the committees — and also on the opinions of other committees, and these will be the overall picture of what we are going to do in the committee. In other words, we must not go down the road of interpreting the words of another, that the government parties are always simply behind the government's proposals. We have made a lot of changes in the various committees since the hearings, and I personally appreciate very much the work of the Legal Committee and the spirit in which it is done, that we genuinely take a lot of things to be heard, that we look at things from a different perspective, that we take statements from the opinions committees and then, if necessary, that we modify the government's proposals. I would now ask that the same good spirit that we have in the committee room be in this Chamber as well and that we do not falsify each other's words here either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u258	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u259	Thank you, Mr President. I have great respect for Mr Huttunen's work and for his way of doing things, and that is why I am not going to, for example, make these speeches, which you have used here, when I am putting together a video of this, but I would simply like to counter-argument what you have just said in the parliamentary minutes. Mr Rantanen here did not give the impression that it would always be this situation, that whatever the Ministry says, then the government parties will act. This is not the case; it was the fact that, when you yourself justified our arguments, you took the argument as the only basis for argument; in practice, your steak was that you trust in the preparation of the ministry, and then it is the only argument against it. After all, the ministries are working under political guidance, and it is precisely in our democracy that this principle is that politicians should be elected to decide the priorities on which preparations will then be made. Of course, there are different things to say from different quarters, for example, when dealing with immigration, some refugee organisation has something very different to say as an expert than what we think, but we are political decision-makers, and that choice of values must be made in the finals, regardless of what the experts have said. There are good arguments in favour and against, but there is no such mathematical formula that if more than 50 percent of experts say in this direction, then we automatically have to do so, but that is precisely why we hear a huge variety of organizations, experts, lawyers, that we get it on the basis of our value creation on such a solid basis. That's what this is all about. As far as this change is concerned, Mr President, this is, in principle, perhaps one of the most absurd proposals of this period, based entirely on the fact that this would not actually be a practical disadvantage if this law were to be kept as it is today — it would simply not be any harm at all. This is as pure a value issue as it can be, how much emphasis is placed on the data protection of prisoners and the data protection of their loved ones. So this is really a purely like political question because this has no practical effects. If this law amendment is made, then it will, that is, it will indeed make the work of the police more difficult, and it too, if ordered or agreed to bring drugs into prison and so on, will be of tremendous importance in terms of prison security. — If we could all vote against this amendment of the law. I still respect your work, but I was forced to counter-argument this now because I felt that Mr Rantanen's words
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u260	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u261	Mr President! Now Mr Huttunen either deliberately misunderstood or misunderstood what I just said. Of course, one can think that one another is respected here, but we are now discussing this issue – we are not discussing how we work in committee, and you know very well that I like your style of working there. That is not the point here; it is a matter of fact whether, in this situation, we can act with our prison and institutional security, safety at work and, at the same time, organised crime, in such a way as to undermine the ability of the authorities to intervene in criminal matters, to prevent matters relating to safety at work, and even to keep these records there during the detention period. That is what this is all about, and as I said, that wisdom does not always live in the ministry. It may be that this has not been considered, and it is true that these legislative proposals come from the government parties, and then, of course, we hope that this type of child — which is now on the way here — will not go through, because the fact is that the government parties also know, in the hearings of the committee, that this will undermine the safety of prisons, and other prisoners there but also to the staff, and that is what we are trying to prevent here. In that sense, I find this particularly regrettable when this should not be so much a political issue that needs to be taken so politically. This is a matter of purely fictitious security and increasing their threats through political decisions. That does not seem very nice, and I would like this amendment to be supported in this Chamber, and this is something that the government parties would consider once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u262	Congressman Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there is a law on the processing of personal data at the Criminal Sanctions Agency and amending the Prisons Act and certain other laws on the enforcement of sanctions. Mr Rantanen raised some interesting points here, and at the same time Mr Tynkkynen, and I hope that we will take account of such irregularities, what has now arisen in the reading of this law, I very much hope. And that hearing, if you think about it, is of course never shared by all those who say those things, but that often depends on what kind of hearings are called in these committees. You always get a lot of things to show you what you want, which is what you get. It can make a lot of things look quite different, depending on the fact that people are invited to hear — I do not necessarily say that this is what has happened, but there is something that can be explained well when people are invited to hear people who are sympathetic as in a particular direction. It's always possible. But I hope that this matter, which has been raised by Mr Rantanen and Mr Tynkkyse, will be brought back to us again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u264	Congressman Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u265	Mr President! Perhaps I should like to remind you, however, that this is part of a broader legal package, which relates to these personal data and the repeal of these earlier laws. Although this debate has now raised this one angle from this point of view, it is, however, about the major reform that is being pursued and, in part, what reforms have been made to those systems and what is being pursued... However, the need for this has arisen both directly from the field and also from the ministry. On the other hand, I believe that the opposition has raised the threat very well. They are not necessarily all related to this particular law, but to the greater problem that we have in those prisons above all. And now, of course, the work that needs to be done is, above all, hopefully already under way at the Ministry of Justice in terms of the Prisons Act and the Prisons Act, but I also hope from the Ministry of Justice and also from the Ministry of the Interior that we will now address the problems raised there and seek new legislative means. I would not blame this law for bringing everything to ruin, but rather for the need for big and stronger ways of responding.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u266	Congressman Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u267	Mr President! Mr Ovaska speaks wisely, as he does very often in this Chamber. It is true that these phenomena must certainly be seen in other laws, but I would have very much liked to have heard from the government parties now why we are having a problem with one aspect of this. Mr Ovaska is absolutely right that this is an extensive legislative package and there is a lot to be done there, but it is precisely in my view that it would be important to correct children who would not go through and who should be corrected from that proposal at this stage so that we do not have this problem, these phenomena of organised crime and prison security that we undoubtedly have, and Ovaska is right in that respect. However, in addition to the new wheels that we certainly need to tackle these problems, I would ask for further consideration: should we not, therefore, deliberately refrain from taking decisions which we know will make this problem more difficult?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u268	Congressman Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Ovaska is a very good person rhetorically, but at this point I would say that it was not quite a target, so to speak. In this House, perhaps, as in the case of the esteem of the President, it is not customary for us to act so in parliamentaryism that the opposition spends time, as it were, praising everything that is good in the government's proposals and going through it for a minute, but perhaps it is our opposition's task in Parliament to tighten up the government's action and also those proposals: to read them carefully and read them through. And now we clearly, at least in our opinion, have found a clear problem. You are quite right in that, Mr Ovaska, that this single thing we have been talking about will not be or has not been any reason for this kind of ruin. That has been a very difficult situation for a long time, but — as Mr Rantanen has said well here in my opinion — if we know that any minor change will make it even more difficult for us to make the terrible problem that we have, then we should not make such a change. We have a lot to do with prison security, we lack resources for police investigations, organised crime has been growing and so on. These are real problems even before this proposal, but with this proposal, unfortunately, you, the good government, are making things more difficult, and I would consider changing this individual part of this package. You can do that, can't you? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Rantanen has just raised these so-called loopholes and, in a way, those that should be corrected. Well, it's true, we're here to legislate, but we're here to see the loopholes. And when those loopholes are discovered, they must then be closed, patched up so that there will be no such situations, as it is now possible in this law to come, which will then be more difficult to repair afterwards. Of course, it is worth fixing them at this stage and not until late, when problems have already arisen. I hope that we will indeed return to this issue and that these problems will be corrected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u271	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 14/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Mr. Pekonen, please present the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u272	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal proposes to amend the Employment Contracts Act and the Maritime Contracts Act. Both laws would amend the legislation on non-compete agreements by extending the employer's obligation to pay compensation for non-compete agreements to cover all non-compete agreements. It is also proposed to provide for the date of payment of compensation and the right of the employer to terminate the non-compete agreement. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities considers the proposal to be necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of legislative proposals as unchanged, with the following comments: First of all, a few words about liability. Section 5 of Chapter 3 of the Non-Discrimination Contracts Act It is proposed to amend it to include provisions on the employer's obligation to pay compensation to an employee for the period of limitation laid down in the non-compete agreement, the amount of compensation and the timing of payment. The amount of compensation depends on the employee’s salary and the length of the limitation period agreed in the non-compete agreement. The amount of compensation is staggered. This is intended to guide the conclusion of shorter non-compete agreements. The committee agrees with the assessment made in the government's proposal of liability as an effective means of preventing the conclusion of unjustified non-compete agreements. The committee takes the view that the proposal is justified from the point of view that compensation is not a form of compensation but a form of compensation based on the conclusion of a non-compete agreement and the related link. In practice, it is very case-by-case and very difficult to assess the impact of each non-compete agreement on employee's ability to operate during employment and later during the limitation period. Then the termination of the non-compete agreement. According to a government proposal, a non-compete agreement can be concluded for a maximum period of one year, as it is today. For situations where circumstances and the need for a non-compete agreement change during employment, it is proposed that the proposal explicitly provides that the employer has the right to terminate the non-compete agreement. The committee notes that the termination of a non-compete agreement is a matter for the employer to terminate a contractual obligation which is binding on the employee for the benefit of the employer. Although the non-compete agreement applies only to the period after the termination of the employment relationship, the non-compete agreement may, however, affect the employee’s activities and opportunities for action even during the employment relationship. The period of notice is justified by the fact that employers do not enter into non-compete agreements in the interests of certainty, since exit would be cost-free even when the employee has resigned. The legitimate expectations of the worker should also be protected. For example, it is problematic for an employee if the employer terminates the non-compete agreement without notice at the time when the employee has resigned and, on the basis of the non-compete agreement and on the basis of its remuneration, agreed to start a new job after the restriction period under the non-compete agreement. In addition, in its opinion to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, the Constitutional Committee has assessed the proposed retroactive lack of regulation in existing non-compete agreements. It notes in its opinion that the constitutional protection of property also safeguards the stability of the contractual relationship, but that the prohibition of retroactive interference in the integrity of contractual relations has not become absolute in practice in the Constitutional Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs further notes that the protection of its legitimate expectations has been interpreted as a right to rely on the permanence of legislation governing rights and obligations which is essential for a contractual relationship so that such matters cannot be regulated in a way that would unduly undermine the legal position of the parties. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that the proposal for retroactive application of compensation regulation has been submitted with acceptable grounds linked to Articles 6 and 8 of the Constitution. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities considers the proposed regulatory solution to be appropriate. Finally, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities notes that more comprehensive statistical or research information on the prevalence of non-compete agreements in Finland is necessary. The Committee stresses that the impact of legislative changes and the use of non-compete measures should be monitored actively after the entry into force of the law and, if necessary, measures should be taken quickly to remedy any possible irregularities. Mr President! The report contains two objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u273	Thank you. — Representative Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u274	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the Employment Contracts Act and the Maritime Contracts Act. Both laws would amend the provision on non-compete agreements by extending the employer's obligation to pay compensation for non-compete agreements to cover all non-compete agreements. It is also proposed to provide for the date of payment of the compensation and the right of the employer to terminate the non-compete agreement. The experts consulted by the committee have not agreed on the impact and necessity of the proposed change. On the one hand, the appropriateness of imposing a liability was questioned, the imposition of new financial burdens on companies was criticised and the level of compensation was considered disproportionate. On the other hand, the liability was also considered justified but insufficient. The committee's expert hearings also raised the view that compensation should only be paid if the terms of the non-compete agreement prevent reemployment. The aim of the proposal is to reduce non-compete agreements contrary to the conditions laid down by law, in particular by preventing them from being concluded. Now, however, a government proposal may lead to agreements that meet the legal requirements and that are necessary for companies not to be concluded in fear of costs. This may also affect the willingness of companies to employ new skilled workers, which will contribute to their competitiveness, especially in emerging markets. Furthermore, the proposal does not pay sufficient attention to the objective follow-up of amendments to the law, which may lead to unilateral views in the future on the effectiveness of the law. We Finns, on the one hand, recognise the needs of companies to protect business secrets and, on the other hand, the fact that the non-compete agreements which have been systematically incorporated into employment contracts may unduly hinder workers from changing jobs if the terms of the non-compete agreement are so vaguely defined that, in practice, it would be possible to interpret the acceptance of any work in the same sector as a breach of the competition ban. However, our group in committee draws attention to the fact that an unjustified and unnecessarily wide-ranging non-compete agreement is still invalid. We therefore believe that the government's proposal is a matter which should primarily be the subject of agreement between the social partners and only then bring the matter to the decision of Parliament. This has not happened, however, but has been brought to Parliament's decision in a poorly prepared and contentious way. Avoiding unnecessary and unnecessarily extensive non-compete agreements is primarily a matter of lobbying the social partners. In fact, it is not appropriate for the people of Peru to decide with this preparation by the government when the social partners and experts have been very divided in their assessments of the need for and impact of regulation. The better option is to take a time-out, go back to the negotiating tables and bring a new proposal to the House for decision once the social partners have reached an agreement on how to resolve the problem. Mr President! We will therefore present a motion for rejection of the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u275	The 19th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 13/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Mr Pekonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u276	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has also completed a report on the Government's proposal to amend the Act on the Ombudsman for Equality so that the Ombudsman's new task would be to act as a report on violence against women. The aim of the proposal is to establish an independent and independent role for reporting violence against women. The reporter would monitor violence against women and domestic violence, the functioning of national legislation and the implementation of international obligations across sectors. It is also good to note in this context that, as early as 2018, Parliament, on a proposal from the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, adopted a position requiring the Government to examine the possibility of appointing an independent institution to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the obligations of the Istanbul Convention and, if necessary, to prepare the legislative amendments to it. The present proposal responds to this position. On the basis of the reasons for the Board's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities considers it appropriate to entrust the rapporteur's role to the Ombudsman for Equality and to support the adoption of the draft law without amendment. Some reservations have been expressed in the opinions given to the committee regarding the role of rapporteur to the Ombudsman for Equality. Among other things, the opinions have considered that violence against women is such a widespread phenomenon that the independence of the reporting function and the speciality of women require that the role of the reporting agent be laid down in a completely new, sufficiently high-quality, accredited and literally independent expert authority. The committee notes that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman is an independent and independent authority and, in its view, is able to carry out all tasks independently and independently. According to the proposal, an appropriation of EUR 200000 is proposed for the activities of the rapporteur. The amount of the appropriation takes into account the savings made in administrative support tasks when assigned to an existing operator. The committee points out that in setting up and resourcing the role of the rapporteur as part of the work of the Ombudsman for Equality, account must also be taken of the high-level and wide-ranging substance competence required for the task and the scope of the task to be monitored. The committee considers it important that the adequacy of the appropriations is closely monitored and that, if necessary, the amount of appropriations should be increased in order to ensure the proper performance of the rapporteur's task. The proposed law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022 and the committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u277	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u278	Thank you, Mr President. This is now the matter of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman and the related law. Indeed, the proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Ombudsman for Equality so that the Ombudsman's new task is to act as a reporting agent on violence against women. It is also reported that in order to carry out this task, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman would take initiatives, give opinions and advice, and could draw up and commission studies. In the same way, I would also like to raise the issue of a similar delegate, which would be necessary. It would be a member of the Family Care Council. That's what we'd need in our kingdom. It is supposed to take care of family carers in the whole kingdom, bring up things that the family carers cannot do otherwise. There are a lot of questions where financial advice is needed, and there is a need for advice on financial management anyway, and there is a need for advice on how to get help, where to get all kinds of support and stuff. That's the kind of councilman we'd need in Finland. Yes, family carers have earned the right to have a family care representative in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u279	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u280	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal proposes that the role of independent and independent reporting of violence against women should be entrusted to the Ombudsman for Equality. In that very good spirit in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, we discussed this government proposal. Then what does that reporter do? The reporter takes initiatives, gives opinions and advice, also brings out his observations in the social debate and reports his findings directly to the decision-makers. It is also important to remember that the tasks cover all domestic violence, including when it is directed at non-women. As the chairman of the committee has already said in his own presentation, this government proposal relates to the draft budget for 2022. And, as we said in the committee, I would also like to say out loud that there is a need to monitor the adequacy of the appropriations and, if necessary, to be able to return to this appropriation in the sense that this task will also be well done and carried out in a way that is also, of course, the state of departure of the government and the state of its will. In his own presentation, the chairman of the committee also pointed out the reservations expressed in the opinions given to the committee regarding the role of rapporteur to the Ombudsman for Equality. It has been linked to the fact that, among other things, these opinions have considered that violence against women is so large and widespread that the independence and speciality of the role of this reporter requires that the role of the rapporteur be laid down for a completely new independent expert authority. However, after consulting experts in one of the committees, we felt that the Ombudsman for Equality was an independent and independent authority and, in the view of the committee, was able to carry out all its tasks independently and independently. This, too, in all good cooperation across party boundaries, so that this proposal did not see government and opposition borders, on the contrary. That's a good presentation. That's a good one. That's a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u281	The 21st item will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 8/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u282	Mr President! This is a minor amendment of the law amending the definition of the Punkaharju nature reserve. The area of the former Finlandia hotel is separated from the nature reserve by approximately 3.2 hectares, as well as a small parking area and at the same time an area of approximately 115 hectares is connected to the nature reserve, which is mainly a water area. This government proposal is made to enable the restoration of the construction team of the former Finlandia hotel for tourism purposes and to increase the nature conservation representativeness of the Punkaharju nature reserve. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, this issue was quite straightforward. This is where nature, nature tourism and local industry win.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u283	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u284	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the nature of Punkaharju, and at the same time I would like to point out that in Northern Savo, Rautavaara has such an area of Tiilikkajärvi and there is a national park, whose development and expansion has been very much considered at Rautavaara, and Rautavaara invests in that. There is indeed a variety of travel hypes, natural peace and things like this, and indeed Rautavaara puts a considerable amount of money into it, and the North Savo Union has also responded positively to this. When we return to this matter, I hope that this too will receive a positive echo here in Parliament, including this extension of Rautavaara to Tiilikkajärvi. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u285	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u286	Mr President! This extension of the Punkaharju nature reserve is the right decision, and it is a good thing that this is going to happen in order to make the tourist potential of the region well available and to introduce the region to people in the form of increasingly improved services. In this context, however, I would like to express my wish for these nature reserves and various parks to be made with enthusiasm. One of the things that has always annoyed me about these matters — this is not a problem at all, but it is annoying — is that when big protected areas are made, the rights of local people are always being trampled on. From there are mercilessly cut off hunting rights, fishing rights, even though the memorable pleasure rights of this nation have been in use for hundreds of years. In time, they have even earned a living and then an extension of bread when the livelihoods have been very low and the earning potential really low. Hunting, fishing and the exploitation of the area in general, multiple use, pleasure rights that have been created over the centuries: they have hardly been respected at all today. In my municipality of Ilomants, we fought with regard to Natura sites when hunting rights were mercilessly removed. In time, we were promised that nothing would change, that everything would continue to be the same. How'd it go? It's all gone. Of course, some small ones remained there, but the original promise we were given was betrayed. This cannot be done by a state towards its citizens. The State is us, as a wise thinker once said. If and when the next cases occur, I hope that this will be taken into account, because you cannot trample human rights on the grounds that somewhere someone wants to protect an area. That Finnish protection means that it is a total ban on everything, and that must not be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u287	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 13/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u288	Thank you, Mr President. I am indeed presenting the report of the Administrative Committee. This proposal proposes to amend the fund-raising law by adding a new paragraph to the provisions on the scope of the law, which excludes so-called voluntary emission compensation services from the scope of the fund-raising law. The scope of action would therefore be possible as a non-regulated activity of this fund-raising law for different operators, irrespective of the legal form of the service provider. The Administrative Committee notes that this proposed amendment does not affect the ability of non-governmental organisations to do other work for the benefit of the general climate under the regulation of the fund-raising law. Moreover, the change does not determine the tax treatment of the activity, but the Tax Administration always assesses the tax treatment of the activity on a case-by-case basis. The exclusion of voluntary emission compensations from the scope of the fundraising law also means that the Police Government will not monitor voluntary emission compensation activities that meet the definition of capping on the basis of the provisions of the fundraising law. In practice, however, the question of whether or not it is an activity within the scope of application may be assessed by the Police Government, for example, when it is requested to obtain a fund-raising permit, or when it is informed of a possible illegal collection of funds, or if it is asked for guidance as to whether or not it needs to be authorised for any activity. The Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses that the proposed provision does not take a position on the question of whether or not the activities are funded, but that the purpose of the provision is to define voluntary emission compensation as a phenomenon and to enable it in all its forms as an activity outside the fund-raising law. Moreover, this provision does not take a position on the type of activity which is a good voluntary emission compensation activity. Mr President! The committee considers it important to clarify the current legal situation. The fund-raising law is not the place to regulate the terms and conditions of voluntary emission compensation and the rules of the game. However, the need for a debate on the quality and reliability of voluntary emission compensation services and the framework conditions for operations has been identified, and the related work is already being carried out in the Ministry of the Environment study project. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u289	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u290	Mr President! This amendment to the fund-raising law is long awaited. This will be necessary because, due to unclear legislation, Finland is lagging behind other countries in emission credits. Voluntary action will bring private funding to mitigate climate change, which is needed to achieve ever-increasing climate objectives. So the legislation is now clarified by excluding voluntary emission compensation services from the fund-raising law. This will enable us to promote the market for national voluntary emission compensation services and thus encourage companies and other actors in the sector to develop new services and innovations in the fight against climate change. Mr President! There is a broad common view that the fund-raising law is indeed not the place to regulate the framework conditions or rules of voluntary emission compensation. However, this aspect must now be dealt with without delay, so as to ensure the quality and reliability of Finnish emission compensations. Consumers must be confident that the climate benefits of the purchased emission reduction will be real, measurable, permanent and additional. The problem of double counting will also be solved: how to ensure that national voluntary compensation projects can be distinguished from meeting the international climate targets of the Finnish State. Mr President! The quality and transparency of voluntary emission compensation can be ensured, for example, by drawing up binding recommendations for the sector or by enacting legislation on minimum voluntary compensation criteria. The Ministry of the Environment's report on the regulation of voluntary emission compensation provides a good basis for this sector's governance. One key tool is the establishment of a register of operators in the sector, from which consumers and other users of compensation services can check whether the service provider is committed to compliance with common rules. It must also be assessed whether external independent bodies are required to monitor the activities. Proper regulation will benefit the whole sector. It is therefore essential that those operators who seek to use compensation as a pretext for greenwashing should be eliminated from the market. Mr President! Finally, I would like to raise the concerns of NGOs, which have indeed arisen during the preparatory work. It is important that the current amendment to the fund-raising law does not affect the ability of non-governmental organisations to do work for the benefit of other climates of general interest within the framework of the regulation of the fund-raising law. Therefore, this activity is possible as it is now, even after a legislative amendment. Finally, the Committee on Administrative Affairs also states in its report, as the chairman of the committee also pointed out, that the study carried out by the Ministry of the Environment on the quality and reliability of emissions compensation services and the framework conditions for action must be pursued with determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u291	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen, Hanna, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u292	Mr President! As mentioned above in the speeches, we are dealing here with the amendment of the fund-raising law. This change has been very much awaited and this legislative amendment is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The background to this is that the current situation has been very unclear and unfair for these players. This is a legislative amendment which also supports the Government's objective of carbon neutrality. This emissions compensation activity is a very important part of this objective of carbon neutrality, so that individual consumers and others can make use of the possibility that, in the case of the services and products they buy, they can then offset their emissions against the charge. Until now, it has indeed been very unclear whether the activities are covered by the fund-raising law to what extent, and this has been a very difficult situation for these players, since the interpretations have then been different. We now have a limit so that in future the fund-raising law will no longer apply to this regulation of emission compensation. And, as Mr Elo well described in this previous speech, in future a separate regulatory framework is needed to ensure that emissions compensation activities and business activities outside the fund-raising law are brought into such a framework that consumers have the opportunity to ensure that the service they buy fulfils the conditions, that it will then, with certainty, reduce these emissions and carry out what it is intended to achieve. As Mr Elo said above, it is important that the public interest entities continue to be able to continue their activities under this fund-raising law when this is not about the emissions trading phenomenon described here, but about the fund-raising that has been carried out in other ways. It is very important to point out here that it is very important to maintain its status quo, because it too had become a source of concern on the part of non-governmental organisations during the drafting of the law. Indeed, this work will continue within the framework of a system that will then be put in order and, of course, it is hoped that the government will soon be able to put it in order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u293	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u294	Mr President! The idea of starting to compensate for emissions opens up the path that I would never be happy to see opened. Those with a lot of money can make this kind of compensation deal and then fly even to the Maldives or warm water to the Pacific, where there is a lot of warm water. There, then, are fished, large jets are driven all over the seas, tropical fish species are fished. And that is a clean conscience when it comes to compensating for this discharge that was born when flying there. I find this modern indulgence trade very repugnant. And look, my friends, what came to Parliament today: U61. There's this new system, which is the second version of the resuscitation package. Now that this emissions trading has been run and practically low-income people are on the verge of a hunger course, we are now in the process of planning a recovery package under the European Union for which common funds would then be collected, such as emissions trading funds, and then from the state's current financial frameworks, which means these membership fees that we have paid and these so-called own resources, which were not supposed to exist, but only there they are now. Now we are collecting a package of 72 billion of these, which will start to pay social assistance to those who are the victims of emissions trading, i.e. those who have to pay for expensive energy, because of the wrong decisions that have been taken with their economy. Then, at the same time, we here approve of some millionaire buying credits for emissions trading, and the Greens enthusiastically support that, yes, this is great. Where's your conscience? It is made of these that those who really have a lot of money and a chance to fish there in the Pacific will be given the opportunity to wash their consciences clean with money, and then the ordinary person who has been the victim of emissions trading and the huge energy costs will have to rely on waiting for various subsidies through society in that queue. I'm telling you, there's no morale in this business. I would like to see some sense in this emissions trading exercise or in this climate change project in general. Let us make amends to those who have a great deal of money and make those who are genuinely affected by this fierceness suffer. Finally, Mr President, I hope that this senseless task will be put to an end in the Finnish Parliament and in the whole of the European Union, when it then strikes the truth that we taxpayers will have to pay for all this and Finland will be paying very hard for it. Those who benefit are on the shores of the Mediterranean, those who have mismanaged their affairs. This stings into my soul, and I firmly believe that justice will prevail, but here's just a few crises to live in between.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u295	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u296	Mr President! Indeed, it was quite shocking to hear in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy today that a new stimulus package number two is coming. It was supposed to be a one-off, this stimulus package, but now there is going to be a stimulus package number two, in which Finland is actually going to pay for it, and it looks pretty terrible, and it looks like that money is going to the other warm countries. This is precisely where the previous speaker pointed out that it is truly appalling to see that no one there knows how much a Finn will have to pay for this. We should be getting money back from that stimulus package one, but where is the money in practice when it is not, at least not its own? But this two was already quite, far too much. It was not supposed to come, and this is quite wrong if this kind of thing is accepted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u297	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-26-ps-124.u298	Mr President! The proposal proposes a new law on voluntary military service for women to replace a law of the same name. The purpose of the reform is to bring the legislation on voluntary military service for women into line with the requirements of the Constitution and, at the same time, to bring it up-to-date in legal terms. It is a great thing that women increasingly want to go to military service, that is, voluntary military service. On the side of this millennium, the proportion of men has continued to decline and the proportion of women has grown — although the difference is still large, but the number of men who attend the military service has been drastically reduced, and the way women go has increased, more than doubled — that is, they have taken an interest in it, and it is good, and it is important in the future that women also visit the army, at least some of them. Then, in view of what would support this too, the National Defence Education Association MPK is the most comprehensive safety trainer in Finland, offering training to all who are interested in maintaining, developing and expanding their military skills and general security skills, and it would be good now for women, young girls, to know that there could be more testing of how the army tastes and get initial training through it. There is a need for many people to work together in order to increase interest. As far as this bill is concerned, it is good that these are being imported and developed. We also need women in the army.
