ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Lintila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u2	Mr President! As regards the fourth stage of cost support, no significant changes are proposed in relation to the third stage of cost support for the closure of large companies and cost support. The support period for the new application would be March-May 2021. The reference period would be 19 years, depending on how companies made their VAT returns. New enterprises established on or after 1 January 2019 may receive aid based on the fall in the median turnover of the industry. In the fourth stage of cost support, sectoral demarcation and discretion would be maintained. The ceiling would be EUR 1 million. The decrease in turnover will remain unchanged. No changes are proposed, they may have a significant cost impact. The regulation on eligible costs will remain unchanged. Small businesses are affected by an increase in subsidies below EUR 2000 to EUR 2000. A section on closure compensation for small enterprises was added to the Act on the third phase of cost support, which entered into force on 12 April. The new aid for medium-sized and large enterprises is based on a new aid scheme notified to the Commission under Section 3.12 of the Temporary State Aid Framework on 25 May. The decision to be adopted by the Commission must be adopted before the law enters into force. The law is therefore proposed to enter into force by a later Government decree. For a medium-sized or large company/group which was kept closed under the IAD3a§ from 9.3. to 18.4. , the State Office may apply for payment of compensation during the period of residence, The amount of the loss may not exceed the sum of the total salary and other expenses during the closure period. The aid is subject to the condition that the company’s turnover has decreased by at least 30 % during the closure period compared to the corresponding period 2019. The loss and loss of turnover are examined at the Group level. The maximum amount of aid is EUR 1.8 million. When granting the aid, account is taken of the fact that the maximum amount of aid per enterprise/group under the future decision of the European Commission is not exceeded by EUR 10 million. In addition, the aid will be reduced by insurance compensation for the aid period and other State aid for the same costs. As a new form of support, the law provides support for fixed costs, which is largely in line with the criteria for cost support. The aid is based on a new aid scheme notified to the Commission under Section 3.12 of the Temporary State Aid Framework on 25 May. A decision approving the Commission must be adopted before the law enters into force. The definitions here are the same, i.e. EUR 1.8 million, and the compensation does not exceed 70 % of the loss for the aid period. The amount of the loss may not exceed the sum of the total salary and other expenses of the support period. The aid intensity will depend on the amount of the turnover decrease in accordance with the calculation formula corresponding to the cost support. This will be reduced by 30%. The aid is conditional on a reduction of at least 30 % in the company’s/group’s turnover compared with the corresponding period in 2019. Loss and loss of turnover are also examined at group level and the maximum amount of aid is EUR 1 million. When granting the aid, account will be taken of the fact that the ceiling of EUR 10 million under the future decision of the European Commission will not be exceeded. In addition, the aid will be reduced by insurance compensation for the aid period and other State aid for the same costs. Mr President! The continuation and partial reform of cost support respond first of all to the need for support caused by the prolonged pandemic situation and the various constraints imposed by public authorities and the law. Secondly, the law is supplemented by provisions on the closure compensation for medium-sized and large enterprises, which was decided at the same time as the provision on the closure of small enterprises was introduced into the Cost Support Act in the context of its third round. It was already known at the time that the support of medium-sized and large enterprises required negotiations with the Commission, which made sense to rapidly separate legally easier compensation for small enterprises from the law. The Cost Support Act has also been supplemented by an addition to the transaction guarantee. In the future, therefore, the law will consist of cost support, closure compensation for companies of different sizes, transaction guarantee and new fixed costs compensation. The law will be in force until the end of the year, as will the exceptions to EU state aid regulation. As far as the future is concerned, the situation must be assessed in line with developments in the business sector and in relation to the restrictions on the pandemic. On the economic side, however, there have been some encouraging assessments: both the number of unemployed job seekers and the number of bankruptcies has fallen since last year. In addition, for example, in the field of domestic tourism, a lively summer of tourism is expected. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u3	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u4	Madam President! Good Minister and good colleagues! We have the so-called cost support number four in the debate and thank Minister Lintilä for his excellent presentation. This includes the cost support of companies, but also the closure compensation for medium-sized and large enterprises and the reimbursement of fixed uncovered costs, and this aid will be able to meet this in the case of those who have completed the previous aid of 1.8 million. In other words, you can apply for support in the future, after the entry into force of this Act, from March to May, and all sectors, including business name entrepreneurs, will be involved. Thank you for that. This proposal deals with the closure allowances for large and medium-sized enterprises, and now, at least in the sector, questions have arisen as to how this closure allowance for large and medium-sized enterprises treats, for example, cinemas which, in principle, have been allowed to be open — six people may have been admitted to the audience of 500 — but their business has actually been blocked by these strict restrictions. I would like to ask the Minister whether this applies only to those who have been fully required to be closed, or whether this can also be extended to these cinemas. After all, at the moment, these past subsidies have gone so far as to exclude as many as 80% of cinemas from almost all of them and have not been targeted there, so that, for example, cinemas have been so restrictive that in practice they have been closed down. This big demonstration, which was in front of Parliament last week, a demonstration in the field of culture already enough, had to stop. It was a little strange, though, when you listened to the speeches of the Greens and the Left, for example, there and how much they wanted to help the cultural sector and the field of events. If there had been such a hand mirror often found in a woman’s purse, it would have been good to take it to these speakers after these talks. There would have been an answer to these overcrowded restrictions. After all, the sector has today published its own opinion on the law in question on this interest rate subsidy. They refer to this closure allowance, Section 5c, which refers to the closure allowance but only to the closure period. They therefore ask why a complete shut-off transaction has not been included in this whole, that is, why it only concerns where there has been a lock-down, or where there has been a complete shutdown of the transaction. They also raise the issue of wage costs and scope and have made good, well-founded amendments to them, in my view. After all, the field of events is in a very difficult situation. They demonstrated by their own demonstration that corona-safe events can be organised. They've made a Check! sign for safe events. I hope that the sector will be opened up. The second is the restaurants that have now become trapped in some kind of political game. Their limitations are so strict at the moment that this government will still need a support package of five, a support package of six and who knows how many packages if you are not able to dismantle these restrictions, my dear government parties. I myself have insisted that the Chancellor of Justice should intervene in this situation. At the moment, the demands made by the Constitutional Committee to maintain these restrictions on restaurants are no longer met and I consider it necessary for the Chancellor of Justice to take action and reassess whether there is no longer a legal requirement for these excessive restrictions. Finally, President-in-Office, I would like to mention these other specialities which surround these restrictions, because they are directly linked to these aid packages. It seems absurd that, for example, Helsinki Hietalahti flea market is considered an event, but at the same time a yard sale in the park is allowed, for example in Dallas Park. There is no logic in your restrictive decisions at the moment and they cause undue harm to traders. They are calling for and will continue to require new support packages, from which it would be possible to get out by going out of these overcrowding restrictions. Finally, Mr President, these restrictions on tourism: It now seems that, under the leadership of Minister Krista Kiuru, Finland is introducing stricter restrictions than the rest of Europe. This restaurant and tourism industry will not survive this coming summer when it did not want to survive last summer, and especially last winter with the help of Finnish tourists and Finnish tourists alone. That is why I appeal to you, representatives of the government parties, to introduce the same rules of play that exist in other EU countries and to open up our tourism in a corona-proof manner. It means one test, it means a corona pass or a corona certificate, and that we will also be able to get people to come here safely. Mr President! Thank you, however, for taking account of these larger players who have suffered from the corona and even bigger ones. I would like Minister Lintilä to be able to answer these questions at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u5	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u6	Mr President! I have been in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to deal with all these cost subsidies, including closure aid, and today we have heard experts on this four. All the time, I have been somewhat disturbed by the negative attitude of scientists towards this issue in general. They are talking about creative destruction, which is, as it were, a normal thing that companies must face and which is reforming the business field and activity. But now we are in a pandemic situation, and I do not think it would be appropriate to resort to this type of rhetoric, especially those people who talk about these subsidies in public and who are in the process of defining the criteria for support. We must remember, however, that if Finland is compared with other EU countries, we have in the end done little to support companies. On the basis of some statistics, we have the third least support for businesses across the EU. It must also be borne in mind that now that a lot of money has already been put in place to support companies at Finnish level, the number one, number two and number three in these cost subsidies will be wasted if no cost support from number four will be enough to subsidise them. In other words, it is as if we have kept up some companies in vain if we are no longer supporting them. Hopefully, we will be in the final stages of this pandemic, and it would of course make sense to maintain healthy companies that are able to work even after the pandemic. Mr President! The suggestions for improvement that have come from experts and industry are, among other things, that the share of ownership should be reduced from 30% to 20%, and I assume that the Minister has heard this several times already. However, in the restaurant sector, for example, food pollution is a problem, because if goods have already been purchased and will be closed, then of course all these ingredients will be contaminated. They should be properly compensated, but this would not be the case. Then the third thing that worries us is that the sector feels that they are again going to be put at a disadvantage, including that this transaction guarantee is considered to reduce cost support. In a way, they are somewhat different so that this formula can perhaps still be viewed separately. Then there is the point that, when we look at companies of different sizes, we are now replacing 70% of these costs, i.e. the other costs of the aid period plus the wage costs of the aid period, but in the case of small companies it might be sensible to put it a little higher, 85%, just as it was, for example, in the case of the guarantee, which I have just mentioned. And then one more.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u7	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u8	President! Interest-rate restrictions are still making business more difficult, so for the fourth time, the proposal under discussion already provides temporary support for them. The cost estimates for the state economy of such proposals are challenging, but this time a large part of the estimated costs, up to EUR 169 million, could be covered by the rebudgeting of last year's budget, which is a good thing. Although there have been more fair and proportionate improvements to the proposal once again, I was still hoping for a 20% reduction in the turnover threshold in this proposal. In addition, cost support is specifically designed for companies operating in Finland that have been affected by a corona pandemic. Nevertheless, up to a third of this aid, about 30%, is estimated to be targeted at companies whose turnover has fallen due to reasons other than corona pandemic. I therefore agree with Etla's sceptical statement and question why cost support should be granted to firms that were in difficulty before the interest was raised, and, as Mrs Heinonen said earlier, there is no logic in these restrictions. Football is a good example: for example, HJK is allowed to take Bolt Arena, about 12,000 people to the arena, six people, and next to Linnanmäki about 3,000. Minister Lintilä, as a solid friend of football, will understand this great concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u9	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u10	Mr President! For over a year we have gone ahead of people's health, as it should be. Of course, this principle has been widely accepted. In the context of interest rates, the opportunities for entrepreneurs to influence the situation have been at least challenging. The premises have been ordered to be shut down or spices have been brought into the side that have made it difficult for companies to be essential, i.e. to make profits and bring work. The Korona has not been a just virus. It has not treated all companies evenly, but its attacks have hit the event, restaurant and tourism sectors selectively, for example, i.e., depending on the sector, they have either infiltrated or made a reasonably normal result. Various forms of cost support have been banged over the course of the year on several occasions. Every time the past has been learned and progress has been made. Of course, it is clear that these are difficult to complete and that the actual losses will not be compensated for by cost-effective subsidies in their entirety. President! It is quite clear that entrepreneurs are entitled to compensation. In the presentation, the fourth round of applications for cost support is in August-September. The period for which the aid is granted shall be March to May and shall be compared with the corresponding period in 2019. All companies can therefore apply for cost support. The proposal specifies the criteria for granting the aid as well as the eligible costs. The aim is to better target support for small enterprises, including sole entrepreneurs. This is a very valuable starting point. President! In the Government's proposal, it is also proposed to insert a clause in the Cost Support Act which would provide for a reasonable remuneration for medium-sized and large enterprises, i.e. in the event that the authority's power or law has blocked the premises, i.e. the so-called closure fee. This is a good thing, because everyone understands that the bigger the company, the more repeated the losses. President! We decided to go ahead of people's health, but with the support of companies. That's what this cost support number four is.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u11	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u12	Mr President! It is very important that the financial damage caused by the corona pandemic, in practice the costs, be reimbursed as fully as possible to the companies affected by the pandemic. By way of derogation from previous cost support legislation, medium-sized and large enterprises will also be compensated for having had to close their premises as a result of a law or a decree issued by a public authority. This is, of course, fair and necessary. The proposal contains two sets of elements. First of all, this is the fourth round of independent calls for cost support, which will take place throughout August and September 2021. The second element is closure compensation for large and medium-sized enterprises due to closure due to law or regulatory regulation in the period from 9 March to 18 April. This year. This complements the earlier decision on the compensation of small enterprises, i.e. enterprises employing fewer than 50 people. In the case of the largest companies, the decision could not be taken at the time due to a lack of authorisation from the EU Commission. In practice, we are talking about restaurants and sports facilities. It is now essential to act as fair and fair as possible and to support the business of a pandemic in order to secure jobs and avoid bankruptcy as far as possible. This speeds up the recovery from the negative economic effects of the corona. It is good to remember that the better the fight against the disease itself and the better the compensation for economic losses, the faster and better the chances of recovery and economic conversion back to the growth path.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u13	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u14	Mr President! The Government’s proposal under discussion mitigates the harm caused by the interest rate to companies. The proposal relates to the third amending budget for 2021 and is a follow-up to the decisions already taken to support businesses in the midst of the crisis. The proposal would allow the granting of fixed-term company cost support to continue. At the same time, the criteria for the allocation of cost support and the provisions on eligible costs and the reference period for turnover would be clarified. In addition, medium-sized and large enterprises will be compensated for having had to close their premises as a result of a law or a decree issued by a public authority. Mr President! Companies have been burdened with an excessive burden on the consequences of corona restrictions, as necessary to protect human health and life. Although the outlook is improving in terms of the disease situation and thus the plight of companies, a significant number of companies are still in a very difficult position in Finland. This crisis does not end with the gradual opening-up of the various functions of society, but with the long-term consequences of the crisis. Society, including businesses, must be given time to recover. We need a sustainable bridge out of the corona crisis, and the cost support of companies is one of the pillars of this bridge. It is true that money alone is not enough for companies to recover. The demand for financial assistance for entrepreneurs has increased by as much as 350 per cent, and the message is clear: help, support and advice is needed. Finnish Entrepreneurs say “Enterpriser, without difficulties with pre-emergence ” is an easy group. Mr President! Nothing so bad and bad as not something good. It would appear that lessons have been learned from previous crises and that the safety nets of entrepreneurs have worked better this time. This is also reflected in the fact that a large-scale wave of bankruptcy has been avoided. This was also the government's promise when the corona landed in Finland. As we know, the well-being of an entrepreneur is directly reflected in the well-being of the company and potential workers, which is why access to mental health services is also a hard core of employment policy for companies. At the latest, the corona crisis has shown how important it is that no one falls on nothing, that there are no human gaps in the safety net of society — not even when there are challenges that even the wisest are unable to prepare for. Steps have been taken towards basic security in the middle of the crisis. Basic security also belongs to entrepreneurs, and I hope that lessons will also be drawn from this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u15	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u16	Mr President! Indeed, with regard to this government's proposal, the expert consultations began today in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy. Once again, we are in this area of cost support. There are grounds for this new round of subsidies, but the problem with this government proposal is that it has not been developed between the third and fourth round of applications. That is what the Minister said just now, at least in part. However, development work would have been needed when listening to actors from different sectors. At the same time, when these cost subsidies are made, we must also try to take account of the dynamics of economic renewal, that is clear, and avoid the negative effects of subsidies on, for example, the rental market. The aid scheme can cause problems from a competitive point of view. Of course, it is important to give a signal that the aid is only intended for a limited period of time. That's what we're talking about all the time. But there are already areas where these effects are and will be longer and deeper than the deadlines set out here. The situation in the event industry is very serious and cost support in this form continues to operate badly in the sector. There's a sudden stop in the business. But also, according to experts, for medium-sized and larger companies, this closure allowance seems unfair, and from that point of view, of course, it should be borne in mind that even the larger company is going down in this situation. And especially those companies with a little more than 50 employees have received feedback that how this is going to happen. Of course, Mr President, the figure is that when we look at these restrictions on restaurants: In the capital region, the sun is shining and the infections have fallen, and yet quite severe restrictions are still in force. Somehow it would seem that this rebooting of economic cycles would be the best way to manage the interest rate. But for some reason, these decisions are not only in the restaurant industry but also in many of the event sectors, for example in the football stands. I would like to ask the Minister: why is the development of this cost support still, as it were, unfinished?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u17	Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u18	Madam President! Thank you for your comments and questions, there were a few here. Congressman Heinonen, who seems to have left us, asked about the cinemas. In other words, cinemas go through cost support because there is no legal barrier to them. Those operators that are not legally closed will go through cost support. I very much hope that we do not have to make a cost subsidy for five and six, and so on, because then it would mean that we had won this pandemic. This is only done because this wretched virus does not provide normal conditions for business, business, that is what this is for. But of course we are prepared, if these restrictions are to continue, to do the next, but let us hope not. As far as restrictions are concerned, I myself have said in public on several occasions that I would be more prepared to open up restrictions because we are not going back to normal economic growth and business until the restrictions have been lifted in that respect. Several speakers asked why they did not drop from 30 to 20. Yes, it is, to a large extent, a question of money, very far. That rise is surprisingly large, what happens in the middle of the total cost. At the moment, we have put out round 2.5 billion business subsidies during this corona crisis, which means that we have a responsibility for that too. Well, then, actually, to that last Sankelo question, why didn't the three were developed for number four? I think he was yesterday when he was the CEO of Finnish Entrepreneurs in the morning TV and he praised the fact that cost support three is very good,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u19	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u20	Madam President! I am used to the fact that when it comes time to thank you, I would also like to express my thanks, and my thanks to the Government, Minister Lintilä at the moment, particularly to the small ones in that direction of Pirkanmaa... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u23	Mr President! I would like to continue with that earlier speech. As far as the event industry is concerned, I would like to point out that the turnover of companies in this sector has fallen by an average of 80%. More than 10,000 workers have been laid off and almost 140,000 temporary jobs have not been created last year under normal conditions. Here, some representatives have referred last week to an event in the field of events in the vicinity of Parliament House, which was very impressively carried out. There many operators even commented that they have no money for food or rent. The unemployment benefits are very small, which they have received at the moment. They are very concerned about the way in which we are going to proceed, for example. the basic problem with this cost support is that it is based on support for traditional activities involving fixed costs, but there are two specific features in the event sector: firstly, that costs are incurred long before the event has taken place, and secondly, that there are a lot of chained companies, small operators in the ecosystem as a whole, and, secondly, that the benefits of cost support, i.e. the amounts of aid distributed, do not extend to these small operators in the ecosystem. These particular features should be taken into account here. Mr President! Once again, when there is a government minister present, I would also like to raise the issue of copyright compensation, which is still not included in the calculation of unemployment benefits. Many art, creative operators would benefit if they were included in it, because they will then be deducted from unemployment benefits at the time of payment, i.e. there is such an imbalance. I hope that the Minister will be able to take this issue forward in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u24	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u25	Mr President! The minister talked about winning the team, and hopefully Finland will have to win the team both in terms of the corona and next weekend, when there are real games going on in that European Championship. But in relation to this victory: For example, the Confederation of Finnish Industries strongly believes that certain changes should have been made. So you always have to assume that you have to praise what you're doing, but in principle, this cost support four actually gets criticism from many sectors, tourism, the industry, the Confederation of Finnish Industries — is it still your idea to win?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u26	Minister Lintilä, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u27	Mr President! Well, if there's one thing that I'm a little bit left to dig through in this four, then maybe it's this interpretation at group level, which means that breaking up a group might have been something that might have been justified in some cases. That's the first thing that comes to mind. And the creative sectors are very well known. In fact, over an hour ago I had a long discussion with representatives of the creative industries in the Ministry, and I informed them that I will gather this sort of round table of creative industries, which focuses specifically on improving the economic conditions of the creative industries. We are talking not about subsidies, but about looking to the future of creative industries, about how they can build, for example, a land brand, how to create financial opportunities for them, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u28	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u29	Mr President! When we talk about culture, it is a very broad-based concept, namely that each of us uses culture to some extent every day. When we think of events and cultural factors, performers, some people think that it is not so important now that it is corona time, that it is much more important, but culture also includes the mental well-being and the production of what is as important as physical well-being. We must understand that in the field of events, among other things, they are made up of so many factors, many professions involved in the organisation of the event. It's so many people. Their tax market, their tax cents, their euros have been good enough so far. We must consider that they are equally valuable workers and bring money into our society and their appreciation is just as important. That is why, in the corona era and beyond, we must also remember the importance and importance of creative and event culture. You can't overemphasize that. Fortunately, it has now come out much stronger, was this peaceful demonstration, but with the corona the significance of culture has also risen before people, including appreciation. And when we talk about how, in the future, we can increase the importance of culture and take into account those factors and, among other things, their livelihoods, then the parliamentary working group stands up, as was the case when attempts were made to get quotes to the Nordic level. That was when the parliamentary working group met, that is to say, it has all the parties and it has such a common vision and agreement. Things moved forward, and a loan compensation issue was received at the Nordic level in Finland as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u30	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u31	Mr President! I'm sorry Minister Lintilä had to leave. In his last speech he pointed out that he was organizing a round table of creative industries. I'm sure it's wise in the longer term, but I think it's more important now that we have a minister here. Lintilän helps to open up business in this country. It now seems that, in many cases, the government is stuck in these aid packages and aid policy, which is important in itself, but it would be equally important in this disease situation where we are now, where the infections have fallen, to get the restaurant business and the field of events open, so that the tax revenue will come from there. I have come to the impression that entrepreneurs want to go to work. They do not want the aid package to go after the aid package, but specifically to work. And, as we saw last week from this demonstration in the field of events, they do know how to organise even a big event with great interest rate security and with these things in mind. In that regard, I would now like the government not to hang itself from these strict restrictions, but to try to dismantle them as quickly as possible. For example, food restaurants, dinner restaurants, are in considerable trouble when they are able to make one set per day. But in this situation of disease, it would probably be possible to open these up so that they too can have two sets — so that people who are laid off and businesses can get back to work — I would like the government to focus on this instead of these aid packages. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u32	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u33	Thank you, Madam President. The Finns Party supports the Government’s proposals to prevent the exploitation of foreign labour and to promote the emergence of work-related exploitation. However, this proposal is problematic in many ways. It encourages foreigners wishing to have a residence permit deliberately to seek out bad working conditions or, at least, falsely to suggest that they have been exploited. When the sanctions imposed on the employer are also null and void, this proposal will lead to a situation in which the employer can actively help his foreign worker to remain in the country by failing to fulfil his obligations. The risk of abuse is obvious. In protesting the bill, the True Finns made numerous changes to respond to these risks of abuse. We would have called for strong reasons for obtaining further authorisation in relation to suspected exploitation and to reduce unjustified declarations that, when it is established that exploitation or negligence has not taken place or that the person concerned has provided misleading information in the course of processing, the extension authorisation granted on false grounds is withdrawn. Without the changes in the articles that the representatives of the government parties rejected in their great wisdom, this proposal opens up a new path to cheap labour migration through the use of the system. Such loopholes should not be left in the legislation when the possibility of using them is already quite clear in advance and they would be easily examined at this stage. This proposal does not combat the exploitation of the labour force, because there are hardly any consequences for the employer. It only rewards those seeking exploitation or wrongly claiming abuse by workers with a residence permit without a restriction on the profession, even if it becomes apparent afterwards that they have misled the authorities. Madam President! On the basis of the above, I propose that the bill contained in the government proposal be rejected. In addition to this, I would like to make a motion of protest from the Finns of Finland, in which the Parliament requires that the Government take immediate measures to allow the imposition of a business ban on the responsible person of a company who has repeatedly failed to fulfil his obligations as an employer or has exploited foreign labour. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u34	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u35	Mr President! I support Mr Lundén's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u36	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u37	Madam President! Very briefly, when I was unable to attend the first reading, I would like to say a few words about this. In other words, when a referral debate was held on this government proposal, I said that the exploitation of foreign labour is one of the lowest forms of crime in which criminals exploit people who are already in a very vulnerable position. And this whole problem, as we all know, is quite extensive, and it is very difficult to get to grips with it comprehensively, but of course we should also thank the fact that now the government, with a number of government proposals, is working hard to tackle this problem. I also think that this proposal, although there have also been objections to it, will in any case improve the status of the victim of its occupational exploitation and at the same time better target these sanctions on the person responsible for the exploitation. In other words, I think that we are also on the same side here, that these things are also appreciated by the government- opposition parties, which is what is going to happen here in any case. When the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities dealt with this issue, I also believe that we heard quite clearly in itself that the exchange of information between authorities and the development of mutual cooperation are a very important part of the support and prevention of the application of this law. Of course, it is also particularly important that these issues are communicated and advised, and so that everyone knows that, for example, the mother tongue does not remain a problem in the absence of such information or advice. In committee, we also made a statement, which requires the government to monitor the effectiveness of the amendments to this foreign law and then also to report to the committee by the end of 2022 on how the spirit of this law has been put into practice. I dare to think that once this statement has been made, then there will also be opportunities for Parliament to return in another way and perhaps also to receive further answers to the duubies that have been brought out of protest if and when we do not manage to achieve our goal in every respect by means of these various government proposals, which I am sure everyone in this Chamber will have.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u38	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u39	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the debate, but there are a few points to make when I did not get to the last reading of the debate either. I look with great regret at the way in which the Green Left Government is gnawing the rest of our foreign law and immigration policy in the last two years. And, in fact, it is particularly regrettable that we also have an example of what this law is now proposing, from Sweden: companies have been created which, so to speak, exploit the arrivals, who then receive a residence permit on the basis of it. Unfortunately, this matter has been overlooked in the deliberations of this law. It is quite clear that work-related exploitation must be combated, it is not appropriate, but then there are different ways of doing so. True Finns have proposed a monthly wage limit of EUR 3000 as the income limit for work-related immigration, and this is also one way to prevent abuse. In other words, when a person comes to work where he manages his salary here in Finland, there is no possibility of exploitation. This would have been one way, but in a very typical way, as in many other cases, this government is following a very dissuasive example of Sweden, and we will certainly see the unpleasant consequences of this legislation. But it certainly does not harm either the Greens or the left-wing parties that there are as many foreign-language speakers as possible here. Instead, we'll run out of money somewhere. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u40	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u41	Thank you, Mr President. In this debate, too, I would also like to emphasise that responsibility from the government parties. I understand that you, like the assembly, have a different ideology in some areas and a different view of how immigration policy should be managed, but nevertheless you should not turn a blind eye to the problems that can be prevented at the legislative stage. Mr Rantanen made a good point about the situation in Sweden, and, for example, the representatives of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities in Finland suggested that, if a situation emerges that there has been no abuse or negligence and that a foreigner has provided misleading information in connection with the proceedings, the extension permission granted on false grounds will be withdrawn. This would be very good, because, Mr Taimela, there is an extremely low threshold for obtaining its extension authorisation — it is, in fact, only subject to opposition — and then it would be very good to have a sanction. The second point is that if it turns out that a company acts, so to speak, even — well, now I cannot say illegal — as an attempt at dumping cheap labour and working conditions, it could be imposed immediately on a business ban. I also consider legislation which does not leave the Authority sufficient discretion. Here, the Finns of Finland have made it very clear that the Authority could consider changing these terms to ‘may be granted’ and ‘may’, so that the authorities would be left with an assessment in these root situations. This has been ‘issued’,andtherefore an objection has been I would like you to take seriously the problems we have and the hundreds of thousands of unemployed people we have in Finland and this whole system. When you make legislation, you also do something that can eliminate abuse — we also do it in domestic legislation and we believe that there will be a variety of sanctions. There will be tax increases, there will be many more, but this seems to be nothing more than a residence permit. - Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u42	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, represented by Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u43	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on the transport of animals. The EU wants to pay attention to animal transport, where gross negligence has been observed for many years in many countries. Although there are relatively few cases of non-compliance with animal transport in Finland, it is a good thing that clarifications on official EU controls are added to the law. The demarcation between commercial and other transport of animals will be clarified and clarified. The proposal also allows Customs to carry out controls at the internal borders of the EU. The most important thing in the transport of animals is that there are no injuries or unnecessary suffering to the animals. Training and examination shall be required for the certificate of competence of the transporter and keeper of the animals. This task remains the responsibility of vocational schools and universities of applied sciences. Adequate provision of education must be ensured at national level. In the context of education, it would be important to develop the consideration of animal welfare. The need for long-distance transport plans is also crucial. Although the proposal mentions that the authorities would be able to intervene not only in the route plans but also in the ex-post checks, it is a cold fact that, at the latest, when animals are outside the EU area, their rights will collapse. They are so-called free game. In many countries there is little concern for animal welfare and the treatment is terrible. This is a matter that is well known here in Finland. The decision will be taken at the time when it is decided to send the animal to a country where the treatment of the animals is poor. In my opinion, we should have an in-depth debate in Finland about sending thousands of fur animals, let alone reindeer, to target countries that are questionable for animal welfare. The transfer of Finnish fur farming expertise to China, for example, does not serve the interests of entrepreneurs in the sector when it enables unethical foreign power production. Mr President! Although the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry was unanimous, one thing was strongly raised in an expert hearing, especially in the case of Customs. Customs is a key, important player in limiting, among other things, puppy production. The transport of animals is constantly increasing, but Customs resources do not grow in the same proportion. This is a controversial issue, and therefore the basic Finns propose the following statement, which has been distributed there to the representatives’ tables: ‘The government requires that the government ensure that: Customs control resources will be sufficient in the event of an increase in control tasks.’ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u44	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I support Mr Elomaa's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u46	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u47	Thank you! I myself support this excellent proposal, and it would have been nice to have had more discussion here and there on animal matters. During the Korona period it has also been possible to read about the poor situation of animals in delayed transport. There have been situations where animals are in transportation cars and are standing there for a long time, and each of us can understand that standing still in a hot car and perhaps even being afraid is a very serious matter. This news coverage is directed and is mainly directed outside the EU. I would say that the law without adequate supervision is a complete torso. Yes, it is that if there are people who know that there is no supervision, they do this. Sometimes, as a student of criminal law at the Faculty of Law, I remember that the risk of being caught is also one of the most important for the prevention of negligence and crime, that is, if you know that no one is watching, then it is a little bit in line with that. If there is no minister here now, perhaps Mr Elomaa would be able to answer whether you discussed whether there was any EU funding for this control, or whether it was even in the discussions that the EU would fund this, because we must also raise animal conditions and welfare if we call ourselves a welfare state and a civilised state. And was there any talk of imposing a ban on imports at the EU's external borders, for example, from companies or transport companies that have been found to neglect, abuse or abuse animals? If this is not the case and you do not have an answer, then you do not need to, but perhaps ideas for the future and for the representatives here. And now, of course, I turn my eyes to the representatives of the government parties. There are also such people who I know or at least assume are interested in these animal rights. We have a lot of problems, a lot of problems. Of course, we can talk about these within the EU too — bullfights, the treatment of dogs in Romania and Italy, many other very barbarous things — and I wonder that the EU Member States and the Commission are overlooking them, but then perhaps there is a lot of time for other things. But these are living creatures. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u48	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u49	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent questions and ideas for Mrs Mere. We did not have a debate in this expert consultation, nor did we have a debate on whether or not the EU would be able to obtain any funding for this, nor about what is happening at the borders, whether there are special sanctions, but it is a positive thing that animal transport has now been raised strongly in the EU and animal welfare has also been raised in some places. But the cold fact and fact is that, even though farm animals are raised here, many countries within the EU do not comply with these regulations, what Finland does, such as cutting chickens' beaks, cutting pigs, and so on, using antibiotics. Unfortunately, even these recommendations and regulations are not being followed in every country in the EU, and many of the things and mishaps that have been happening to pets have been stagnant for years, there has not been much progress. If we look at the galgos in Spain and just bullfights and also the huge, huge crime of puppy production that is growing all the time, then the EU has been surprisingly out of hand here, and I hope that we will now invest much better and more strongly in these matters, because animal welfare, both among consumers and among the public, is a very important issue and the need to treat animals well is growing anyway — and the idea that the animal will feel. We will have this animal welfare law brought up here in the autumn at the latest. It is a very important law, and it is important how Finland will adopt all these regulations of the law and how we will promote animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u50	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u51	Madam President! Elomaa’s representative commendably pointed out: Allowing customs resources to be made possible in these controls, but I would also like to point out the other side right here within the borders of the country. Very often, for example, in Pirkanmaa, for example, There are a lot of horsebackback carriages coming to Teivo’s races all over Finland. It would be desirable for the police to be given more control over these horse-carriers, for I myself know of some of my own police years, such as the really bad horse-carrying trailer — the horse’s hoof through the tree floor, and after miles of driving it, of course, then turned against the asphalt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u54	Congressman Rantanen Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u55	Mr President! True, this statement by the Finns is more than timely. It is now the case that the budgetary plan has been discussed in this house by various committees and last week the Administrative Committee issued its own opinion on the government's JTS plan. The situation in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, is quite catastrophic, to put it bluntly. There has been a long lack of funding, that is, in the whole administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, and of course it also has to do with Customs, which now has new tasks to do all the time, but access to resources for resource needs is not followed. In this respect, I would like to highlight this chronic lack of money, but also the fact that when new tasks are given, the financial side would have to follow along, otherwise it would not work. In this context, what I have said several times in this Chamber is that I consider the situation to be very special — if we think that the fundamental pillars of such an organised Western society are, in my view, security and justice, the judiciary — that now it seems to me that the total amount of money from our budget is about 2.5 billion out of 66 billion. It's inconceivable, isn't it? It is now beginning to be that these two pillars of our society are practically built on sand. In that respect, the statement by the Finns on this small matter of Customs is more than necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u56	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 10/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, Chairman of the committee, represented by Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u57	Thank you, Mr President. The proposal amends Article 9 of Chapter 25 of the Criminal Code, the provision on the prosecution of an illegal threat. First of all, the right to prosecute determines who is entitled to be the plaintiff in a criminal case, i.e. who has the right to prosecute and prosecute in a court of law. As far as the prosecution is concerned, the offences are divided into offences under official charge and offences against the plaintiff. An illegal threat is now, in principle, a crime of the plaintiff. According to the Criminal Code, an illegal threat means that someone raises a gun against another person or otherwise threatens another person with a crime in such circumstances that the person threatened has a legitimate reason for fearing that personal security or property is in serious danger. The offences referred to in this provision, which may constitute an illegal threat, include, but are not limited to, homicide, assault, destruction, theft and damage. The motion proposes to turn an illegal threat into a formal charge if the act has been committed against a person because of his or her duties or public trust. This aims to safeguard the right to carry out a job and to perform a public trust without threats of violence or other crime. In other circumstances, the illegal threat remains, in principle, a crime of the plaintiff, except in those situations where it is currently under official prosecution. This is the case when a life-threatening instrument has been used or a very important public interest requires prosecution. The proposal does not contain any changes to the criminal code of an illegal threat, so the area of criminality remains unchanged. On the basis of the report it has received, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers the proposal to be necessary and appropriate, and the committee supports the adoption of the draft law as amended. A few withdrawals according to the time available — I think this was about ten minutes, I take as much as it takes: The extension of the field of official prosecution to the extent that the provisions on illegal threats and prosecution arrangements and their basic solutions have already been laid down in the 1990s. Changes have taken place in the operating environment and need to be re-evaluated. The report received by the committee shows that various face-to-face customer and patient encounters have increasingly threatened employees with violence or crimes. There are also more threats to public authorities, such as the police and judicial officials. Threats can be used to arouse fear or even to prevent the carrying out of work or official duties. The committee supports the aim of the proposal and considers that, in such cases, there is a heavy public interest in the implementation and enhancement of criminal liability. Fear of intimidation and its continuation may affect the willingness of a person exercising a job or a public trust to bring an illegal threat to the criminal process. The fact that the case is being carried forward by a public prosecutor will facilitate the status of the plaintiff and reduce the identity of the case with the victim. The change in the right to prosecute is a strong signal from the legislator that an illegal threat to a person on account of his or her duties or public authority is not acceptable and is not a private matter for the parties. This is also expected to have a desirable impact in preventing illegal threats. The committee stresses that the proposed amendment would not conflict with freedom of expression or reduce freedom of expression, since the illegal threat imposed by the Criminal Code is a threat to crime or otherwise to violence and does not enjoy the protection of freedom of expression. It is therefore unacceptable to present an illegal threat under any circumstances. The characterisation of the crime is not met if you critically criticise the person and it is still acceptable or permissible. As far as the task is concerned, the committee has examined in the report what the ‘job’ would mean in this new paragraph. It is proposed to add a new paragraph 2 which, according to the first sentence, allows the prosecutor to prosecute an illegal threat if the person has been committed on account of his/her duties. The committee has raised various situations in its report. In addition, the explanatory memorandum shows that the ‘workplace’must be widely understood,including, for example, artistic and scientific activities. Indeed, the Committee on Legal Affairs has produced examples in the report, which can be studied and used by the authorities in accordance with their preliminary work in cases of interpretation of the law. And the committee notes that there may, of course, be borderline cases where the proposed provision or the ‘workplace’ will be interpreted and the case-law will finally be determined — and of course not exceptional — since there is a similar consideration in other provisions of the case law. Originally, the government's proposal introduced in Article 2 not only work tasks but also that the offender should be a member of the staff of the workplace, and the committee consulted experts and also received further clarification from the Ministry, and the reason for the restriction is that the majority of illegal threats are related to threats from outside the workplace and illegal threats within the staff of the workplace are usually individual cases. Well, in view of these arguments and the contradictory wording of the article, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights proposes in this report, in accordance with its additional report from the Ministry of Justice, that the first sentence of this paragraph should be amended to cover an illegal threat in which the offender is not employed by the same employer, i.e. that is to say, that he is not employed by the employer. The purpose is therefore to change the wording of the paragraph to reflect the reasons for the proposal. Of course, it is important that the wording, particularly in criminal law, is consistent with the purpose of regulation. There are deeper arguments in this rather long report, and you can get to know them if you wish. The proposed amendment to the Criminal Code also extends the scope of the formal prosecution to an illegal threat to a person on account of his public confidence, and in this respect regulation is completely new. However, in this respect, the proposed provision does not raise similar questions of interpretation of the task, as previously stated. Such public positions of trust include municipal councillors, MPs and members of the Government. The fact that a public trust is subject to an illegal threat and becomes subject to official prosecution does not automatically result, for example, in an obligation for the municipality or its institution to report a criminal offence. Thus, according to a report received from the municipal institution, there is no legal obligation on its own initiative or at the initiative of a third party to deal with such a report. Given the novelty and importance of the proposed regulation and the practical application of the above, the Committee considers it appropriate to continue monitoring the functioning and impact of the regulation in the areas of public confidence. Other legislative needs were also raised in the committee's consultation and the committee has stated that it considers it important that the effectiveness and adequacy of the proposed change in criminal law should be monitored in the future and that it should be assessed whether an illegal threat is justified and appropriate to make it more generally or possibly more widely subject to a formal charge, given that, in consultation with the committee, it is considered that an illegal threat in a close relationship should also be subject to official prosecution. Having assessed the Government’s proposal and the report received as a whole, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the proposed change in the prosecution of an illegal threat is a step in the right direction and contributes to improving the current state of affairs. However, in view of the widespread and damaging nature of the target person and society, the Committee considers it necessary to investigate and evaluate without delay the adequacy and coverage of existing criminal law provisions and means in order to combat the phenomenon effectively and to improve the status of the victim of the target. The committee therefore proposes a statement. The draft decision of the Legal Committee is that Parliament approves the bill contained in the Government proposal as amended. In this respect, the report is unanimous. In addition, the committee proposes that Parliament adopt a statement in accordance with the report. In this respect, the report is not unanimous and contains an objection from the Finns and Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u58	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u59	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal is about changing the criminal prosecution of an illegal threat, so that the offence would be formally prosecuted if the illegal threat were to be directed against a person because of his job and the offender was not a member of the staff of the workplace. The prosecution would also be able to prosecute an illegal threat if the offence was committed against a person because of his public trust. This is a natural continuum in the legislative process, which has already taken place, for example, in the case of minor ill-treatment in 2010. Minor abuse became a criminal offence under official charge when the offence is committed against a person because of his/her duties and the offender is not a member of the staff of the workplace. Public action and public confidence must be protected in particular, since crimes against public authorities or persons carrying out trust tasks are crimes against society on a wider scale. Today’s society has changed in such a way that, for example, the police are increasingly facing not only physical but also verbal aggression in their work. In addition to official activities, the increased risk is related to other activities of society, such as emergency care, where the threat of verbal and physical violence has become more and more pronounced in recent years. However, the debate and the committee’s report are obscured by the vague concept of ‘goaling’, which is clearly distinguished from illegal activities. In the public debate on ‘targeting’ has been In the government's motion, the signs of similarity are drawn between goalmaking and hate speech. ‘Fight speech’is another term where there is no In a democratic society, it is absolutely essential that the policies of politicians, like those of the authorities, are subjected to popular criticism. The opposite would only lead to arbitrariness, and freedom of speech is a fundamental right that should not be taken lightly. Of course, this has not been put forward to change, and even in the future, the characteristic of an illegal threat will not be met by a rigorous assessment of work or public confidence. When legislation is created, precision is absolutely essential. Every citizen who reads the penal code must understand what kind of behaviour violates the law. This strictness of laws is a problem where we are already on a collision course with respect to the implementation of fundamental rights. The role of the Prosecutor General towards Mr Päivi Räsänen is a good or rather bad example. Instigating criminal law against the people is so broad and open to interpretation that, in line with the new interpretation of the Prosecutor General, it restricts the previously permitted expression of religious freedom. Mr President! The objection to the report by the Legal Committee, the Finnish People's Party and the Christian Democrats suggests that the amendment of the law should be clarified in such a way that the change in the rule of law does not affect the threshold for prosecution or conviction. The representatives who have objected also ask to monitor that the change does not result in abuse or, if it is detected, it will be appropriate to consider regulatory changes in the future. In the future, there will be a risk that the legislation on target will become the same vague and interpretative entity as the incitement against the people now is. It is possible to note the politicised nature of the term "painting" in the current social media discussions. Normal criticism is labeled as a goal rather than an argument against criticism itself. From the point of view of the culture of debate, the situation is not becoming healthier, at least in terms of the use of new language terms such as ‘painting’ and ‘hate’. Legislation is the wrong way to change the culture of debate. In legal science, there is the principle of "ultima ratio", according to which criminalisation is a means which, due to its lack of fundamental rights, should only be used as a last resort. Before that, we should consider sanctions that are not criminal. Freedom of expression is one of the cornerstones of Western democracy, to which special consideration must be given to tampering. We already have a number of penal provisions in the criminal code that allow illegal speech to be condemned. In addition to an illegal threat, the criminal code also knows crimes against officials, defamation, the dissemination of information that violates private life, persecution, public call for crime, the violation of vandalism and the peace of communication. So what do the other parties want to add to the criminal code? What's being criminalized? The committee's draft statement even calls for an urgent approach to the criminalisation of the target and to support the victim of the target. What kind of acts are they if they are not covered by the above-mentioned offences? It is difficult to come up with arguments for more extensive criminalisation, and it appears that there is rather a lack of application of existing legislation. And it seems that the political desire is mainly to eliminate all criticisms that today's Green Left faces. This development is extremely dangerous and regrettable, but perhaps it is intended that election advertisements for Finns, for example, can be considered subject to criminal law or that the activities of some journalists can be stopped. I hope you don't mind the reporter. The Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are no longer in the Prime Minister's office if they are to be seen as a goal in the future. With regard to this goal, the Finns and Christian Democrats in the committee disagreed and made a deletion of the statement. Mr President, the road to hell is paved with good intentions and now, if ever, we are facing it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u60	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u61	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes that Parliament approve the government's proposal to amend the law on illegal threats to change the right to prosecute, so that the illegal threat would be subject to official prosecution if it were directed at a person because of his duties, and that it would also be required that the offender should not be a member of the staff of the workplace. The reason for the restriction is that the majority of illegal threats are made by outside the workplace. The chairman of the committee, Mr Meri, has just presented the committee's report in more detail here, but what I would like to raise here is that the majority of experts consulted by the committee considered the conversion of the right to prosecute an illegal threat as a step in the right direction but as an inadequate means of combating the target. Therefore, the majority of the committee, after consulting experts, also considered it necessary to investigate and evaluate without delay the adequacy and coverage of existing criminal law provisions and means to effectively combat the target phenomenon and improve the status of the victim. Mr President! Although this proposal is a step in the right direction, as I said, it only covers a narrow area of harassment and possible problems with the peace of work currently experienced as a result of work assignments. It must be possible to carry out tasks, fulfil duties and carry out common tasks without fear of threatening, harassing or exerting pressure on crime. Such action will have adverse effects on the personal life of the victim, as well as on society, the working community and the functioning of the rule of law. Harassment, intimidation and pressure will not only lead to a deterioration in society's functions, a strain on staff and a loss and exhaustion of human resources, but also to a threat to citizens' legal security. As a result of their official activities, the authorities have been increasingly subjected to threats of violence, grumbling and harassment, and current developments are unlikely to alleviate this phenomenon. This is a phenomenon which cannot be eliminated simply by a change in the right to prosecute an illegal threat. I believe that it would also be appropriate to turn, among other things, the dissemination of information that violates private life, defamation and the violation of the media peace into crimes under public prosecution when a crime is committed against a person because of his job or public trust. I also believe that a more precise definition of the target as its own distinguishing mark would be necessary. The action in these target situations is targeted at the individual, but it is often accompanied by a strong public interest. At the same time, for example, it is also a question of undermining the authority of the Court of Justice, which jeopardises trust in the courts. Targeting journalists violates freedom of expression, which is a fundamental prerequisite for a democratic society. Targeting a political decision-maker puts social decision-making at risk. The public interest in the fight against targeting risks being overlooked if the placing of offences in the criminal process is too much dependent on the motivation or the courage of an individual to file a report or a request for prosecution. Mr President! In my view, if an individual authority is threatened, targeted or inappropriately sought to influence his or her activities or decision-making, it is entirely justified that the prosecutor should be allowed to prosecute without a separate claim from the plaintiff. It is a matter greater than an individual for all of us. In order to influence inappropriately the fundamental functions of a democratic society, society must intervene. It is in the interests of all of us to defend the reliability, impartiality and operational capacity of the public authority organisation. When we talk about this theme, freedom of expression is also often raised. It is one of our most important fundamental and human rights. That is clear, but freedom of expression is not unlimited either. There is no point in creating the impression that such presentations want to restrict freedom of expression unnecessarily. Freedom of expression is one of our most important fundamental and human rights, and its limitation always involves weighing between different rights. For example, according to Article 10 of the Constitution, the privacy, honour and home peace of everyone has been safeguarded and freedom of expression cannot be unduly used to trample these rights. People still have the right and will always have the right to give hard feedback, but when criticism is transferred from office or decision to person or family, it is no longer a question of criticism, but of scoring. Threats of violence or the dissemination of information about private life are unacceptable, under no circumstances. While freedom of expression must be respected, it must not be used as a pretext to forget other fundamental rights. It is also important to note that targets, harassment and threats actually reduce freedom of expression, citizens' opportunities and interest in participating in public debate. It drives people away from politics and social confidence, makes it difficult for citizens to participate and undermines democracy. I am sure many of us have become familiar with the phenomenon that the very common reason why potential candidates for municipal elections are not nominated is the toxic culture of political debate and the increased risk of harassment, paint or other inappropriate influence brought about by trust. Mr President! Of course, it must be admitted that the criminalisation of the target is a difficult whole in which the boundaries and definitions can meet challenges, but for difficult decisions we have been chosen here. These are important cornerstones of democracy, the defence of which is an integral part of our task. We must ensure that public authorities, workers and people in public confidence are allowed to do their work without threats, targets or other systematic harassment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u62	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u63	Mr President! Every one of us social discussion professionals knows that the culture of discussion in Finland has become tougher. This is also known by many judges, prosecutors, policemen, journalists and researchers who face threats and harassment in their own work. In particular, this culture of discussion is reflected in social media, but the same phenomenon is also present in e-mail boxes, telephone calls and human encounters. When threats and harassment are aimed at hindering or hindering the participation of a person in the social debate, undermining the activities of persons representing a particular view or, for example, affecting the decisions made by an official in his or her work, there is also cause for concern about the wider social impact of the threat, and that is what this legislative change is all about. An illegal threat is brought to the attention of a public prosecutor when an act is committed against a person because of a job or a public trust. Everyone must be able to do their job and carry out their duties of trust without fear. This reform particularly protects those workers who lack the resources or the courage to push forward the threats they experience. The task is not tied to the existence of employment or service, but also, for example, freelance work and work carried out on the assignment fall within the scope of the provision. When a person becomes the subject of an illegal threat because of his/her job or the conduct of common business, there is a heavy public interest in the implementation of criminal liability. Fear of threatening or continuing to threaten may affect the victim’s willingness to bring an illegal threat to the criminal process. The fact that the case is being carried forward by a public prosecutor will facilitate the status of the plaintiff and reduce the identity of the case with the victim. The change in the right to prosecute is also a strong signal from the legislator that an illegal threat to a person on account of his or her duties or public authority is not acceptable and is not a private matter for the parties. In this way, change can also prevent illegal threats. Mr President! Not all illegal threats will be prosecuted by this change. The reason for this is the high number of illegal threats. Expansion would require significant additional resources, and this is understandable when we know that the courts and the prosecutors are currently limited in resources. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the cases of violence in close relationships. As we know, domestic violence is a widespread and common problem in Finland: one in three women is subjected to violence by their own loved ones. The expert hearings pointed out that the illegal threat of close relationships should also be subject to official prosecution. In the coming years, it is therefore necessary to assess the adequacy of the extended prosecution procedure and to consider whether it would be justified to bring an illegal threat to the wider public. All effective means of tackling violence in close relationships should be put in place. Mr President! This amendment of the law contributes to the objective of a stronger response to systematic harassment, intimidation and targeting, which threatens freedom of expression, public action, research and information. However, this legislative amendment alone is not enough. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we drew attention to the generalisation and harmfulness of the target and also to society as a whole. We therefore considered it necessary for the adequacy and coverage of existing criminal law provisions and instruments to be assessed without delay in order to effectively combat the target and improve the status of the victim of the target, and we will make a statement to the House for approval. Mr President! Targeting is a systematic form of mass intimidation or persecution. The precise definition of this phenomenon in legislation is not quite simple, but it is not impossible either. It seems impossible, however, to think that it would not be addressed in any way. We have in our hands a new phenomenon for which social media channels still offer an unprecedented growth platform. The Committee's expert opinions reveal the extent to which this is a matter of concern to the various professional groups. Both the Teachers' Trade Union, the Scientists, the Association of Police Organisations, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and many others describe in their statements how the professional groups they represent are increasingly facing inappropriate harassment and intimidation. The phenomenon is also somewhat sexually transmitted. According to an anger in power study, up to 42% of female municipal decision-makers have experienced hate speech. Threats to women differ from other threats, in particular that they often violate the integrity of the body, and the objective of threats is unambiguous: to silence women and to hinder their participation in society. I personally think that we must do everything in our power to ensure that no person has to fear because of his own opinion, position, job or other personal qualities. Mr President! In a free society there is freedom of speech, not a culture of silence. Freedom of expression guarantees that those in power can be criticized without concern and that a diverse civil debate can flourish. However, freedom of speech cannot be used without restriction to silence or exclude others. Hate speech and paint tend to limit the freedom of expression of the people who are being targeted, and that is something I cannot accept. Even strong opinions and humor can be expressed without falling into a crime or questioning another’s humanity. Freedom and democracy are not self-evident, nor are established democracies unambiguously safe. Information impact, fake news — they seek to undermine confidence in a democratic society and established institutions. Among other things, inequality, racism in deep structures and unregulated modern communication technologies create growth platforms for incitement to fear and hatred, organised reactionary forces and extremist populism. Finland is not completely isolated from these international trends and we must therefore do everything in our power to combat these phenomena.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u64	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Just now, as chairman of the committee, I presented a little of this report, but I am now justifying why I was unable to participate in that statement by the committee — that it did not go unanimously, but was involved in this protest from the Finns of Peru. Even the committee itself admits this, as the government's proposal states, that there is no definition of paint in criminal law or elsewhere today. Nevertheless, the committee's draft statement, for example, says that the need to change the legislation will be assessed in order to improve the effectiveness of the intervention. In fact, I find it rather worrying that the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs uses terms that have not yet been genuinely defined. Now I would like to emphasise that we all agreed on this, that the right to prosecute against an illegal threat will change. In other words, it is very good to deal with cases where there is a serious threat of violence so that one has a legitimate cause for fear on his own or on behalf of his family. When it comes to death threats and this type of threat, that is a very good thing. However, we have quite a wide range of means in the Criminal Code, and at least I did not notice from that statement from the Ministry that even internationally, mere paint has been criminalised. Now I was perhaps even more concerned when I listened to these few speeches and talked about this kind of toxic discussion culture or social debate, and there was a mockery of what I am actually afraid of here: that we want to intervene in political debate. For some reason, someone may think that ‘It’s a bad idea to use ‘or’What’s going on or is sending mail and saying’, but maybe this person doesn’t understand, I guess, he’s pissed off and bursting into anger. Sometimes it's understandable. I myself have been in the authorities and courts, and when a person is, as it were, the subject of its administration, he may have fear, fear of misunderstanding or even of murder. And as is said here about crowding, he can send dozens of posts, but I have not experienced it and I do not believe that many people experience it as a crime of any kind. Now that criminal justice is intended as a last resort, I am afraid that this is now going on such routes that are certainly not desirable in any way. The Committee on Legal Affairs has pointed out in the past that defamation, for example, is so personal and subjective that it should not be extended further. It must be remembered that in defamation and, for example, in crimes involving private life, this person is involved in the criminal process. If the public prosecutor could then carry them forward on behalf of his office, he could be involved in the process, even though he himself is not hurt in any way, but the prosecutor takes it like a snake into a gun. But I am behind this protest. And I am a little concerned that not everything can be resolved by criminal law in this society, including the fact that someone is saying stupid things.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u66	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u67	Mr President! On this point, it must now be said that there is no limit to freedom of expression in the last few speeches: Of course, it's not limitless. We have freedom of expression, limited by criminal liability, but criminal responsibility in this country cannot be realised simply by making someone feel bad. And, as has been said here, both myself and Mr Meri, we actually have quite a variety of criminal codes in the Criminal Code which can be used in this type of situation, of which I assume Mr Keto-Huovinen will speak, that is to say that the official, for example, is under pressure. For the information of Mr Keto-Huovinen, violent opposition to an official: ‘Who uses or threatens to use violence to force an official to perform or refrain from carrying And if there is So these things are already here in the Criminal Code. There is a nuisance to an official, an opposition to an official, then there were these, which I have just listed: defamation, dissemination of information that violates private life, persecution, public call for crime, vandalism, violation of the peace of communication. I would now like to ask you what you want to criminalise now, when it is completely unclear — exactly what I was talking about, that this ‘terminal’ of painting,like an ‘enemy’. I would like to know what the real thing is that the government parties and the coalition are pushing through here. In your own speech, Mr Keto-Huovinen, you used the words ‘painting’, ‘harassment’ and ‘threating’. When I see harassment and threats already found in these crime titles, what is this target? That someone calls me ugly, for example, when it gets personal? Is it a goal play if 30 people say I'm ugly? Somehow I would rather see why these titles in the penal code are not being used sufficiently to bring such clearly criminal acts into the process. I guess it's not so that when you put this kind of tangled term in there, "painting" that covers all of this practice, you also mix with a journalist who asks for information from the Prime Minister,you know,you turn around atTwitter,that you ask about things and things like that. Is that what you want now for us to become some kind of North Korea or the former Soviet Union? I do think that this development is very special and I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u68	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u69	Mr President! Painting is typically about the fact that the selected person is presented with false or otherwise degrading information or information about his or her private life being disseminated or threatened. The participants also encourage each other to use and present, in a similar way, offensive information and threats to the person concerned, and this may be very long-term. As a rule, at the moment, it seems that this dissemination of information takes place precisely in the mass media, such as the Internet discussion boards and other social media platforms. After all, in social media the target person can very easily be disgraced among a very large audience. Although our legislation does not at present know that it is a concept, our legislation contains, as I said myself, a number of provisions that can be used in relation to these contributions, such as defamation and others. But on that point I said that it should be a criminal offence under official charge and not by leaving it up to the target person to bring this matter into the judicial process, because it is also the public interest that is at stake in these acts that I was talking about. And yes I see for myself that even when this social media offers this kind of platform and reaching the general public, it is indeed justified to ask and find out whether our legislation is really up-to-date with regard to scoring. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u70	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u71	Mr President! I tried to ask Mr Keto-Huovinen what exactly he wants to criminalize when he wants to criminalise the goal here. When you described just now that typically the case is like this, did you not just describe the illegal threat, defamation and the dissemination of information that violates private life? In this respect, these matters, if they do, are in the Criminal Code. And we cannot have such legislation — as was said here, that it should be quite precise. There is no collective punishment in Finland, but should practically every individual for it to start a criminal process, and if this kind of situation is, then it must be started. If this is the case for a long time, then I would think that once you have served as a prosecutor, then you must have heard of the crime title ‘haunting’ which can be used at a time when such a long time is long. The fact that, for example, parliamentarians receive a lot of mail was also highlighted here. If you have such a very emotional subject, we get a lot of mail. But I could not imagine anyone pretending that this would be criminalized, that if there was someone, it would be said, whatever it is now, the defender of mines or the defender of Malmi Airport, and many of them sending e-mails, then we would see who started, and others would be accused of scoring. So, yes, I would say that I have received some rather ugly feedback myself during my career and it comes with a constant pitch, but it has never occurred to me that I am going to drive something like this. I understand very well, as the police organisation, for example, talks about the fact that if children's schools or children's pictures or something like this are distributed online, which threatens that family, but when we already have criminalised the transmission of information that violates private life, I am amazed that we are going down this road. And I think it's special that the Coalition Party is also involved in this. I understand the Green Left, who only talks about goals and hate speech, and who, by the way, are very often involved in social media themselves. But somehow I would like to see some other way of testing and rather examine why these titles in force today are not being used adequately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u72	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I fully agree that the post for public authorities and political decision-makers is by no means all a target, but a proper debate and acceptable criticism of the people who work in public and their activities are an integral part of freedom of speech and opinion in our society. However, as I said in my previous speech, this criticism must be based on facts and be directed specifically at the person’s activities and decisions that he is doing in his work or in his office. Instead, offensive or degrading reviews, pressure, harassment, persecution and other such activities in the name of freedom of expression are abuse of rights that do not enjoy the protection of freedom of expression. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u74	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u75	Thank you, Chairman! Mr Keto-Huovinen will not be able to say clearly what he wants to criminalise, unless it came in the speech you have just made, in which you said that criticism should be criminalised if it is not related to that particular task. Is this what you're saying that you really want some kind of review... But you understand that it can also mean that if a journalist continues to criticize and then spreads, then if we have a government of sufficient special interest in this country, it will also be considered a goal. In fact, this path is a very dangerous one, especially if you cannot say what else you want to criminalise but criticism. That I do not think it is appropriate for Finnish society to be criminalised by criticism of one another. First of all, it is a matter of politics all the time. After all, we are always criticising each other's actions, and that is, in my view, a political debate. Of course, if anyone wants to run such a totalitarian system, I suppose it is allowed, but we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u76	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 9/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, represented by Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u77	Thank you! The Government's proposal is about national measures implementing the so-called "payment instrument fraud" directive. The proposal amends the provisions of Chapter 37 on certain offences involving means of payment in criminal law in order to implement the obligations of the Directive. In addition, new provisions on means of payment, serious means of payment and minor means of payment are added to Chapter 37 of the Criminal Code. Mr President! As proposed in the proposal, fraud in means of payment is the illegal use of the means of payment, which is currently punishable as it is. All other means of payment against the means of payment are included in the new instrument of payment. The proposed new provisions on the offence of means of payment are specific provisions in relation to similar provisions of criminal law, such as theft and counterfeiting. The aim of the proposal is to ensure uniform regulation of misuse of payment instruments. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers the solution adopted in the proposal as well as the proposed provisions on penalties to be appropriate and justified. The proposal is, in principle, limited to changes necessary for the implementation of the Directive. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers the solution adopted in its report to be justified in this regard. The approach adopted is in line with the approach taken in the national implementation of previous Framework Decisions and Directives on the approximation of substantive criminal law. However, in its report, the committee has paid particular attention, among other things, to the scale of penalties and their demands for EU cooperation in criminal matters. In certain circumstances, the directive behind this proposal requires a maximum sentence of at least five years of imprisonment. In its report, the committee refers, among other things, to the fact that it has explicitly stated in the past, with regard to the maximum sentence of five years, that it is different from the way in which criminal law is regulated in Finland and is therefore not problematic from the point of view of internal consistency in criminal law, among other things. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers the solutions adopted by the Government in its proposal on the implementation of the Directive to be appropriate. In its report, the Committee stresses that during the negotiation phase of the future directives on the approximation of substantive criminal law, which is already at the negotiating stage, particular attention must be paid to the fact that the directives do not contain any requirements on penalty scales that are incompatible with the system of national criminal law. Draft decision of the committee: ‘A legislative proposal included in the proposal of the Board of — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u78	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, representative Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-08-ps-72.u79	Madam President! In its very shortness at this stage of the debate, I would like to comment on this proposal: This is an important follow-up proposal in relation to labour market support for entrepreneurs, and this aid is therefore strongly linked to the corona and has therefore already been made for fixed periods in the past. This is now the fourth follow-up. At the moment, this follow-up will continue until the end of September. This has been discussed in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, and also in relation to this extension of the corona law, as in the past in committee work, we have drawn attention to the fact that when legislation is adopted for short periods at a time, it is extremely important to take these follow-up decisions in time and then to make a special contribution to information. Of course, I myself think that when it comes to continuing, entrepreneurs themselves will also be vigilant when and when the interest rate has given rise to the need for labour market support on many points. This motion was also such that a clause was tabled in committee, and I would like to say in this Chamber, too, that when the history of this proposal is known — and it is easy to follow from these parliamentary minutes and committee proceedings — I dare to think that, if necessary, this employer's labour market support will continue to be prepared without any actual clauses, if and when we do not get out of this interest rate and then we are in a situation where, perhaps, from the end of September, this preparation should continue, for example, until the end of the year. This is now the fourth deadline, and now we are going to go until the end of September with this proposal.
