ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! The interest rate epidemic has had an exceptional impact on the field of activity of businesses and communities. Traditionally, many meetings are held in different forms during spring, but during the corona epidemic physical contact and gatherings have been recommended.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u3	Mr President! It is important that, in the current pandemic situation, the possibility of organising different meetings, taking into account the risk of infection, is secured without any physical obligation to be present. This government proposal concerns a temporary derogation from the Companies Act, the Housing Company Act, the Cooperative Act, the Association Act and several other Community laws. In particular, the general meetings of large listed companies are often major events and cannot be organised as a physical meeting for the time being. It is also not sensible to organise smaller meetings physically in the current situation, but it is of course important to have the business of companies and other organisations closed. Therefore, securing remote participation until the end of June next year is a sensible decision on this point. In the event of a disease, physical meetings are also, of course, possible without a legal barrier.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u4	Congressman Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u5	Madam President! As the Minister and representative Kiviranta said, this is a temporary extension of the Companies Act, the Housing Company Act, the Cooperatives Act and the Association Act, precisely on a temporary basis and precisely because we have this corona virus as an unpleasant companion. The intention is for this to be in force until the end of June 22. As has been said earlier, for example, the representatives of listed companies have been hoping for a continuation of this. This is also very much in line with what the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy said in its report last year, for example, when this was first done. They said that it was necessary to extend the exemption regulation beyond 30 June 1991 if the disease situation so requires and, unfortunately, so far so does it. In this respect, I can say that the government has a satisfactory or good proposal, which must also be supported by the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u6	Congressman Ari Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u7	Mr President! The purpose of the proposal is to extend the validity of the provisions of the fixed-term law of autumn 2020 so that listed companies and First North companies can hold their general meetings at a distance. Since these companies and other communities have already had to act at a distance during the interest period, the Community governments also need sufficient means to organise meetings according to the needs, resources and health protection requirements of the communities in the future. It is in everyone's interest to ensure that these companies and communities are free from interference in decision-making, and just as Mr Kiuru said, it is easy for the opposition to support this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u8	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u9	Madam President! Following the Covid-19 epidemic, in a report published in February 21, the Community Citizens' Action 2020 Group proposed an extension of the provisional law until the end of June 22, as well as provisions equivalent to the Association Act on facilitating distance participation and also allowing online meetings as an alternative to the traditional association meeting and the delegates' meeting. Before the 21 spring meetings of the Communities, we do not have sufficient information on remote participation practices in circumstances where communities and shareholders and members are able to use all the possibilities allowed by the temporary law for remote participation. The extension of the temporary law will allow the preparation of regulations on permanent distance participation and online meetings to benefit from the development of distance participation practices at the 21st meeting, as well as from the proposals and feedback of the above-mentioned report and reports. The Regional Administrative Agencies have amended their interpretation of the Act on communicable diseases and the Act on Conventions so that general meetings and other similar statutory or statutory meetings are not public or public events within the meaning of the Act on Diseases and the Act on Conventions. This applies to housing companies, limited companies, cooperatives and registered associations. Such meetings are therefore not normally subject to the assembly restrictions imposed by the Regional State Administrative Agency. On the other hand, the provisions of Article 58c of the Act on communicable diseases on health safety apply to the organiser of the general meeting or other body. If the meeting is held on the spot, it must be organised in a health-security manner. Madam President! It is important for democracy that alternative forms of participation and influence are available. This will strengthen cooperation, community and trust. It is good to include all social and community actors in the distance. It is therefore good that these opportunities will also be strengthened by permanent legislation in the future. The place of residence and mobility of the participants varies, and this bill increases the equality of people. It is also possible to participate at a distance, if other conditions allow, as a result of corona restrictions or quarantine.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u10	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u11	Madam President! I would also like to thank Minister Henriksson. This presentation is a good, expected and welcome continuation during this corona pandemic. Share companies, housing companies, cooperatives and associations through the Association Act are involved in this postponement. So there is an opportunity to postpone these meetings, as the Minister said — but above all these remote practices. We have had a debate on this issue here in the Chamber before, and I think, for example, that there was a good debate on road-care centres, which also pointed out that these practices might be worth taking as permanent models. Quite often, when it comes to multi-spatiality, people have a home in another municipality and possibly a couple of others, a job somewhere else or a leisure home elsewhere, and there are also quite a few people in the city. At that time, it makes sense to continue to be able to manage the meetings of road care centres and related meetings at a distance. This is also a certain issue of accessibility. While we, who are used to going to meetings on the spot, feel that this may be a little difficult in some way or that we may miss the live meetings and on-the-spot meetings, I have also received a different kind of feedback in which people have stated that it has been nice to have attended, for example, a meeting of the village association or a meeting of the road service where it has not been possible to attend at other times. That is why I hope and ask the Minister: has it been considered whether there are ways of making this perhaps more permanent, or is it the case that every association, every road-care establishment, every housing company and others must make these decisions separately through changes in the rules? Of course, network accessibility will also arise as a question of its own, and it would be a good thing for us to have such systems and foundations for holding meetings. On the subject of this section of the road, I remember when, at least with Mr Kivisaari, we had a debate here in the Chamber about the fact that voting situations and these types may also become topical at these remote meetings, and then it might be appropriate for us to have a common software, a system that could be carried out responsibly and well around this type of information society in which we live. And, of course, at the end of the day, telecommunications connections: I encourage the government to take action in them. They are a prerequisite for these remote meetings to be held in our regions as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u12	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u13	Mr President! Not only do I, of course, thank the Minister for this proposal, but I also thank Mr Heino for his very analytical and good speech. President! For more than a year we have had to trick around various anomalies, and that is what this is all about. This proposal proposes to introduce a new law on temporary derogations from certain other Community laws on limited liability companies, housing companies, cooperatives, associations and certain other Community laws. Of course, from interest we are learning new things all the time, and perhaps we can better predict its behaviour in the future. At the beginning of the interest rate crisis, a number of exceptional laws were adopted aimed at facilitating the activities of people and businesses during the interest rate period. On the one hand, the scope of the exemption laws was intended to be sufficiently long but, on the other hand, to be cautiously short. These exceptional laws have therefore been extended in the light of new information. The purpose of the proposal is, of course, to enable general meetings to be organised entirely on the basis of remote participation. It would also be possible to postpone the Spring and Summer 21 Annual General Meetings by the end of September 21. The procedure is therefore the same as that agreed in the interim law of spring 20 for last year. President! It is in the interests of society to facilitate the decision-making of the communities mentioned in the government proposal and to ensure that there is no disruption.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u14	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u15	Madam President! Just as colleagues here have said in many speeches, this legislation is absolutely necessary. And this temporary departure from Community and company law, which means that we can either postpone these general meetings and the annual meetings of the Communities until the end of September or it is this possibility of a distance meeting, is an important measure during this epidemic. However, as Mr Heinonen has already pointed out in his speech, I would like to ask the Minister, when he is here on the ground, whether it has been considered that a change would then be made to the Association Act, which would enable these meetings to continue to be possible, so that thousands and thousands of associations would not have to make these changes to the rules and re-register their rules and so forth. In other words, is it possible in this way to meet this world of associations and organisations, which is, however, the cornerstone of civil society in many ways? In that sense, I would see that if this is not yet in preparation, then it would be worth thinking about. Then one such anecdote, which before, when a similar type of legislation was discussed here in the Chamber, I brought up. In the case of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, we had to make separate legislation because the church as an autonomous unit is not subject to government regulation, but they have to do it first as a council decision and then bring to Parliament these corresponding legislative changes. But in this context it has been pointed out that we also have other religious communities which are in a similar autonomous position, but they do not have the same type of self-regulation, which has led to a rather strange situation. Of course, in the case of many of these religious communities, it is said that it is the idea that we now see this exceptional situation passing by and things are not so urgent that we cannot wait for that time. But this is such a special situation, which has come to light here, that we have, in a way, autonomous units which, however, are unable to make legislative changes concerning themselves and which have been faced with a certain stalemate. I don't know if there's any information in the Justice Department about this, but this has come up in these situations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u16	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u17	Madam President, the värderade talman! Koronapandemia has changed the lives and everyday lives of Finns. Today, a large number of people have moved to telework, and from time to time, due to the regional infection situation, we have to avoid human contact and arrange remote meetings, which is also what this government proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u18	Madam President! The Government's proposal is to be welcomed, and quite exhaustive and good speeches have been made on this subject. I have also received feedback that many people wish it would be a good idea for the possibility of remote participation and online meetings to be maintained even after the corona period. Mr Soinikoski has already spoken about the preparation of permanent legislation, and Mr Heinonen and Mr Essayah have also raised this same issue and asked the Minister good questions, and I hope to hear the answer myself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u19	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u20	Madam President! This is indeed a necessary and appropriate presentation. For example, it has been a pleasure to note, especially on the Party's side, how the number of participants in the party's meetings has increased now that they are at a distance, i.e. it has been much easier and faster, especially in the case of long distances in Finland. This need for legislative change has been highlighted in order to establish a permanent system. Of course, on the one hand, there may be a need for information from the Ministry and, on the other hand, support for these associations and other actors to ensure that those who do not yet have the possibility to act remotely change their rules. In other words, there are other means than this one-to-one legislation that would be adopted. In my opinion, it is also a matter for the Ministry of Justice that this is consistent and proactive legislation when not all the corona legislation that we have has had. I think this has been well prepared in advance, and we have been able to prepare for the various actors to be able to plan meetings while this exceptional legislation is in force. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u21	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u22	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the introduction of a temporary derogation from the law. During this pandemic, we have tried in many ways to avoid and reduce contact, and we have managed to manage the disease situation well in many areas. Thank you for that, both to the authorities and to the obedient citizens. The meetings of companies and cooperatives and associations and associations must be able to be organised in a health-proof manner even in the event of a prolonged pandemic. There is a need for further exemption regulation. It is necessary to be able to postpone the annual spring and summer meetings and general meetings until autumn and also to take place at a distance. This will enable democracy and the smooth functioning of communities in a different time. As Mr Essayah said above, it is a question of the stone leg of civil society. Of course, the rules of distance participation must also be reformed in the long run by permanent legislation so that the problem does not recur again and again in the event of new diseases. It is worth taking into account the positive experiences we have gained from remote meetings in this preparation. The difficult situation of religious communities should also be assessed as far as possible. Mr President! The law is very well-supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u23	Congressman Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u24	Mr President, ärade talman! The Board's proposal is a natural continuum to the interim law of autumn 2020, which will enable the general meeting to be organised electronically.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u25	Madam President! I thank the Minister and the Ministry for their good work. It is important that communities, associations, limited companies and cooperatives can continue to operate despite the interest rate. Although I know that now, for example, with the preparation of the elections, there is certainly a great deal to be done in the ministry, I would ask you to reflect on the follow-up that emerged here. When it has been shown that there is more democracy, in fact, that it is possible to take part in more and more meetings at a distance, I would like it to be possible for Finland to go in the direction that not everything of this kind always becomes a constitutional question, when somehow it seems that this is the direction in which we should go. If, for example, such interpretations are here, it would be important for them to be wooded in good time, so that in the future we will have a uniform good practice. Thank you for this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u26	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u27	Madam President! I asked Mr Östman to speak because he asked an important question: when can we move on to normal practice? There has been a very harmonious and constructive debate here, as is perfectly appropriate for the nature and good preparation of the matter. In my opinion, there are two slightly different questions raised here. The first is whether a permanent legislative change could be made. This has been raised by many and I look forward to the Minister's reply to it myself. I myself will not go on with that subject any longer. But then this second question: Is there, and when, possibly, a view of returning to what is called normal? Well, that is, of course, an issue on which health authorities have their own ideas, but I would like to express my own opinion on this point. This morning, on the radio and on television news yesterday, I heard the startling news — this morning it was quoted by the finance minister, Mr Vanhanen, and now it goes very far from Finland — that there had been 200,000 infections in India yesterday. Well, suddenly it was revised, which is India’s population, and I noticed that that 200,000 would correspond to 800 infections in Finland per day. And we were on such a level at its highest. That was at the time of the preparation of the restrictions on movement. Thus, the same news yesterday reported that a one - week curfew had been issued in Delhi, for example. Well, this has to do with the matter at hand only in the way that we have now come down a lot, so the latest figure is probably 85, that is, this two-week incidence. And since here moves a lot of numbers, then I have developed this kind of memory rule: when we talk about this two-week incidence per 100,000 inhabitants, then there the number 100 corresponds to 400 new daily infections. And now I am expressing my view that at a time when we have a incidence rate of less than 25 — which means that the number of daily infections is less than 100 — I think it is quite serious to start talking about going back to normal, and hopefully that time is not too far away.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u28	And then I will give the Minister the floor for three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to all the representatives of all the groups for their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u30	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Henriksson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u31	Mr President, värderade talman! This proposal proposes to amend the Criminal Code. This proposal would complement the provisions already in force in criminal law on fraud in means of payment. These updates are based on an EU directive that would be implemented nationally by this proposal. The Directive has been preceded by the 2001 EU Framework Decision on the same offences, which it complements. In a rapidly changing environment, fraud in means of payment is often cross-border. It is therefore important that criminal law is up-to-date and sufficiently comprehensive in all EU Member States. In the field of criminality, Finnish legislation already largely complies with the obligations of the Directive. The provisions of the Criminal Code are technologically neutral and, in many respects, more advanced than EU legislation in terms of the technical characteristics of payment instruments. The novelty of the directive is that it would also apply to virtual currencies as a means of payment. This is why the proposal has clearly extended the concept of means of payment to virtual currencies as well as electronic money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u32	Madam President! Man’s imagination is almost unlimited when it comes to means of payment fraud, money laundering, drug trafficking, tax evasion, trafficking in human beings, illegal arms trafficking or corruption. There are always new ways, and when new ways are invented, you should be awake. This is about to change the criminal code, and there is a directive at the bottom, and, as the Minister said, the statements are sympathetic. Such means of payment crime and other forms of crime hamper legitimate business, honest conduct. International crime always finds new ways, unfortunate ways to act, and, as the Minister also said, the environment is changing rapidly and the online world offers new opportunities. That is why the government's proposal must be supported, and this directive should be included. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u33	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u34	Madam President! As has been said, the implementation of the directive and the achievement of this uniform regulation are at the bottom, which is also the aim of the specific regulation on fraud in payment instruments. This provides not only for fraud in means of payment but also for gross fraud in means of payment and then for these various definitions. In this context, it most often comes to mind that these means of payment fraud are very often targeted at the most vulnerable people in society and then, as Mr Kiuru mentioned here, for example, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, who certainly have far less chance of detecting fraud and then equipping themselves with various expensive techniques against them. Mr President! Of course, in the present digital age, there is also the debate — and that debate is moving close to these frauds of means of payment — that in what way these various virtual currencies and the like, which are constantly expanding, should be viewed, because one might think that there are different types of pyramid or similar scams behind them, and in that sense everything that is moving on that network and to which some community wants to define a value is not necessarily the same. At times, it may be quite confusing for citizens to distinguish these so-called legal exchange instruments from those that may then be based on an agreement between some communities and which do not necessarily have any value outside them, and, for example, there may be very great loss of property and wealth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u35	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u36	Madam President! Again, an important and necessary proposal from the government. This is where the interest period has shown, in particular, that more and more of a shift from physical to virtual, that we need to update this regulation, because then we will no longer see the money that we are dealing with, and everything is going on in that virtual way. With regard to these articles on means of payment fraud, there are very important additions in relation to these means of payment — the introduction or modification of data, the destruction and damage of data, and so on — and so on — and, of course, there is a great deal to do about these different methods of action and the transfer of money. But what needs to be given even more attention in the future and where legislation needs to be updated is precisely these scams, which are very much targeted at the elderly, for example. And when we get these different kinds of scams, e-mails — in a variety of ways we try to fish for information — I think there is a point where we need to be better able to intervene. It is similar to this harassment of many people: there may have been numerous, numerous contacts during the night, and attempts to pry information. Which means we have to get to grips with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u37	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u38	Mr President! The majority of citizens have moved smoothly from cash to bank and credit cards. Young people and many other such social skills seem to be using smartphones as well as smart clocks to pay. However, many of us are afraid to use new means of payment. Perhaps some are discouraged by the constant news coverage of these means of payment offences. Even as the queues speed up, we have all seen the benefits of new means of payment. The cash transaction, with the change of currency, changed to signing the card voucher, pressing the code number, and now flashing the local payment machine. In addition to speed and ease, current payment instruments have also improved security. Missing or stolen means of payment do not automatically mean losing money as technology and security develop. Unfortunately, as has been said here, crime has also evolved. No wonder many may still rely on cash in that drawer. President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the provisions on means of payment offences to respond to the rapidly evolving needs of payment instruments and to guarantee their security. As the Minister has said here, these means of payment offences are very often cross-border. Similarly, Mr Kiuru well described this unfortunate creativity of criminals, which they carry out with cunning and injustice in these contexts. That, of course, makes it difficult for the consumer. That is why legislation should provide security and guarantees to the user. So thank you for this bill. I believe that it is a step forwards to better and safer legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u39	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u40	Mr President, ärade talman! There has been talk of how great it is that people can buy and sell goods and services across borders. In fact, these means of payment are really reliable, perhaps even more than those old-fashioned notes sometimes. But it is true that the idea that we should be able to rely on it is precisely what can sustain such an open market. Of course, that is why this directive is so important, and it is good that we are harmonising and improving the possibilities of cooperation across borders if they are subject to criminal offences. However, perhaps I wanted to draw more attention to these penalties for the Minister of Justice as a question. I was thinking that perhaps before in Finland we have drawn attention to the fact that sometimes these European penalties are quite tough compared to our traditions. Perhaps I would like to see a future effect on the EU itself, however, that we should not, in itself, have a good penal disadvantage or regulation as a result of these directives, at least in a direction that we do not consider appropriate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u41	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u42	Madam President! When the world changes, it is good that the legislation tries to keep up. Payment has largely shifted to electronic means, and crypto currencies have also come to stay. Their use is very active in some social groups. However, it is known that these exchange rate fluctuations may be quite unpredictable. The origins are not well known, they are not transparent in that way, and quite a lot of money laundering is done through these virtual currencies. I think it is important to try to combine forces internationally and do what can be done so that people do not lose their money in good faith when they have moved to such platforms. Then, from our point of view, I was also thinking about these practical financial scams: now that the preparation of such crimes is banned, is there a Nigerian who is approaching our people and who has received a large inheritance and then wants little contact information and bank IDs so that he can share this or his brilliant business idea? After all, these are something that someone always grabs if millions of them are sent around the world, even though they are amusing in a certain way. Is it, then, that, if I receive such an e-mail, I can reply if I would like to reply that this is, you know, criminal activity that you can report it? In a way, it would be helpful to catch these before any grandma puts her money there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u43	Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u44	Madam President! As has been said in previous speeches, the world is changing and legislation must then be involved. It is quite true that these new payment methods, through digitalisation and technology, are developing and virtual payments are becoming more and more commonplace, as are mobile payments. I think it is important that these amendments to the law are implemented and that this EU directive can then be put into practice here in Finland. The law is very much to be welcomed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u45	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u46	Thank you, Chairman! This bill is also to be welcomed and a good one, focusing on good intentions. It is based on this directive, as has been heard here. But I drew attention to the fact that the representative In his own speech, Ovaska raised these so-called fraud attempts, what happens through telephone marketing and through the fact that, for example, private people, usually older people, are being called and sold, and then if he, who receives that telephone call, does not know the law well enough that how accurately to answer and refuse these offers, then in a few weeks he may fall into the mailbox. How a private person gets out of these patterns is usually quite challenging — not to mention the fact that companies also receive such offers by telephone, for example, to offer better visibility in the digital world and optimize websites and so on. If the entrepreneur does not know exactly that he should reply sharply ‘no’ to this offer,so there will be a landing and then he shouldrequire it in the course of a specific deadline,and then there will be a reminder of payment,so the entrepreneur would also know how to react at the stage. Although this is not really the case at the moment, I would ask the Minister of Justice whether you are clarifying the legislation on these matters, because this is really a major problem in our society too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u47	Secretary Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u48	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this support and good questions and comments too. Maybe I'll start with what's meant by virtual currency. In other words, virtual currency means a value in digital form that has not been issued by a central bank or other public authority and which in this sense is not a legal tender such as the euro, but a person can legally use virtual currency as a means of payment, transfer, storage or exchange by electronic means, and the virtual currency can be exchanged for the currency issued by the central bank, such as the euro. That is why this directive and the legislation that we are now doing under it are very important. Maybe the most famous virtual currency is bitcoin. Well, here are some good points about the fact that there is a lot of online trade today, and in general, when we buy goods online, we use a credit card in a way like normal money. Virtual currency is often used in criminal activities, in drug trafficking, and it also involves money laundering very often. That is why it is important that this motion now moves forward. The situation is that in Finland, as I said in my opening speech, we have quite up-to-date legislation, but the problem has been that there has not been any other European legislation, and that is why this directive is important. The Finnish Criminal Code has covered fraud through information systems for a long time, and, as I said, in other EU countries this development has been much slower. Those who have visited Brussels also know that, for example, a taxi often has to have cash in it, because payment cards are not good enough there. In that sense, too, Finland is a pioneer. And mobile payment is also more common in Finland. Well, the importance of this directive is that at EU level the criminality of these new forms of payment is now being regulated. And, as Mr Biaudet pointed out, Finland, whenever we negotiate, adheres strictly to it and stresses that EU instruments are such as to respect the national legal system — as far as penalties are concerned — that they must respect the national legal system. We do not want a system that harmonises the penalty scales, that is not our policy. But in this case it is considered that these scales, which have now been presented here, are also acceptable in criminal policy. Congressman Östman asked about this phone sale. There is also the so-called Omnibus Directive, and I can say that preparations are under way, and we can come back to this too later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u49	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-20-ps-43.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to make it clear in Mr Henriksson's speech that, in relation to Belgium, five years of living in Belgium, there is a very good banking system, but the reason why taxis do not want to use that card is more about the grey economy. In other words, taxis are willing to drive free of charge to the nearest vending machine, as long as the customer pays cash — they have such a system that smaller companies do not necessarily have to keep anything but simple accounts — so that these payments do not then become registered in their accounts. So this is much the reason behind it. As such, the Benelux countries and the Scandinavian countries are quite Europe's top bank systems, different payment systems and electronic payments, while, when I was a reporter on the implementation of the Sepa Payments Directive in the European Parliament, I did notice how rigid systems are in southern Europe, how the German system is old-fashioned, also French, and how much Eastern Europe lacks the basic trust of people in banking systems – that is, there are still a huge number of citizens who keep their money under a mattress and in shoeboxes and who knows where. It is confusing how different levels of these systems exist in Europe at the moment.
