ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 33/2021 vp. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 16 December 2021. Let us move on to the sectional vote. I propose that proposals and support be made by a parliamentary group at a time. I also propose that any corrections to the Minutes be made only after the whole section has been voted on. Here again, I hope for silence so that we can hear the proposals that have been made and move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u2	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2021. Let us proceed to the detailed examination of section 25.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u3	Timo Heinonen's proposal 6 and Jani Mäkelä's proposal 7 concern the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 7 proposals 6 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u4	Jani Mäkelä's proposal 17 and Timo Heinonen's proposal 18 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 18 proposals against 17 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u5	Mr Mäkelä's proposal 19 and Mr Heinonen's proposal 20 have the same meaning, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u6	At this point I also say that I hear quite a lot of the content of the discussions here on the podium, so I would ask for some silence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u7	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2021. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 32.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u8	Proposal 25 for Lulu Rantanen and 26 for Timo Heinonen relate to the same appropriation, so first we shall vote against Mr Heinonen's proposal 26 for Lulu Rantane and against the report that has won it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u9	I would like to question this vote against, because one will be reduced and the other will be added, and these are completely opposite proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u10	Mr Heinonen, I would like to say that they are indeed totally opposed and therefore voted against and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u11	Timo Heinonen's proposal 32 and Lulu Ranteen's proposal 53 relate to the same appropriation, so the vote will take place first on Timo Heinonen's proposal 32 against Lulu Ranonen's proposal 53 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u12	Presentation of Section 24 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At this stage, a maximum of 2 hours shall be reserved for the general discussion in the section. Conversation. Congressman Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u16	Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u17	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance, in particular Mrs Vähämäki, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the comments received on the draft budget for 22 years and for the additional funding allocated to the Foreign Affairs Administration to support international organisations and development cooperation. Even small increases in appropriations are very important to our work. Finland’s basic foreign and security policy is stable and predictable. It is based on good bilateral relations, cooperation and engagement within the European Union and multilateral cooperation based on a rule-based international system and international law. The competition between the major powers for leadership is also reflected in the security of Europe's and Finland's neighbouring regions. Russia's efforts to seek a more significant international role will have an impact on the security situation in the Baltic Sea region as a whole and in the EU's eastern neighbourhood. With its foreign and security policy, Finland produces security, responds to global challenges and acts for a safe and fair world. Finland participates in international cooperation to safeguard peace and human rights and to develop societies. These values will also be implemented by Finland as a member of the UN Human Rights Council between 22 and 24 and in preparation for the OSCE Presidency in 25 C.E. The geopolitical, environmental and economic importance of the Arctic region continues to grow. Finland will chair the Barents Euro-Arctic Council for the period 21-23. The Nordic countries will remain the closest partners in Finland. Comprehensive Nordic cooperation is increasingly important in an unstable international environment. Finland will be the Nordic Council Presidency next year. International cooperation structures, such as the UN system, are also affected by different conflicts. Defending and developing a rule-based international system and the principles of international law to meet new needs is increasingly important but also more difficult. Mr President! EUR 262 million is proposed for operating expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs points out, the importance of a comprehensive and functional network of representations for the security and well-being of Finland and Finns cannot be overemphasized. Representations play a key role in the implementation of Finland's foreign and security policy, in transmitting weak signals to the country of origin, in promoting exports and in helping Finns around the world. In 22 years, the objective is to open two new delegations; the locations of the delegations to be opened will be decided at a later stage. I also share the view of the committees that the development and maintenance of the network of representations must be long-term. The operational capacity and resources of the representative network must also be ensured during the next parliamentary term. As part of the Government’s efforts to ensure the availability of skilled labour, the entry processes managed by the Delegations will be accelerated by increasing the number of staff dealing with residence permits. Additional resources will be allocated to delegations where the number of applications for authorisation has increased and where bottlenecks in the authorisation process need to be rapidly dismantled. The revenue from the EU Recovery Instrument will prepare a long-term national visa, the so-called D visa, to be introduced in 22 years, and create a digital Virtual Finland service platform that will enable integrated service paths for companies, employees and students coming to Finland. Mr President! Finland will continue to participate in international crisis management in accordance with the Government Programme and the priorities of the Foreign and Security Policy Report. The work will also take into account the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee on Crisis Management. EUR 4.4 million is proposed for mediation. The aim is to expand Finnish participation in UN and other peace mediation and dialogue processes. Activities will be focused on financing specific projects to make a more active contribution to the peace process. The aim is also to strengthen the networked approach of Finnish mediation operators. At the same time, active participation in international military and civilian crisis management will continue. President! Finally, Finland's priorities for international crisis management missions are in Lebanon, Iraq and Ukraine, but Finland also participates in operations in Africa and the Mediterranean region. EUR 53.1 million is proposed for the maintenance costs of Finnish crisis management forces and EUR 18.5 million for civilian crisis management. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u18	Minister Skinner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u19	Mr President! I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their cooperation in working on the report on development policy over the run-up to the elections. The work was completed in the spring and the report is currently being discussed by Parliament. I would also like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance for their work and opinions. This government has made considerable efforts in development cooperation. A total of EUR 351 million has been added to actual development cooperation between 20 and 23 years. The total amount of Finnish public development cooperation is estimated to be EUR 1,274 billion, which represents approximately 0.49% of gross national income. We consider it important to increase development funding to 0.7% of gross national income in line with the UN objective. We have continued the parliamentary debate on how to maintain the upward trend in development co-financing also in 23 C.E., when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a budget of EUR 35 million. An extensive international vaccination campaign is needed to control the coronavirus pandemic. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also drew attention to this, and we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs are doing everything we can to promote this. Just yesterday we decided on a EUR 15.2 million grant for the vaccine alliance Gaville and a donation worth EUR 12.6 million. Donating vaccines does not slow down the vaccination of Finns. The Government is also committed to increasing international climate finance in Finland. By the end of this term of government, funding will increase by almost 90% compared to the previous term. Climate funding to be channelled to developing countries has been budgeted for next year at EUR 184 million — a record figure so far. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs also states in its opinion, the EU is an important development policy player and a funder and a key channel of action for us. We are at the heart of the renewed Team Europe model and the Global Gateway initiative will also bring us considerable new opportunities. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs also raised the issue of Afghanistan in its opinion. The annual allocation of some EUR 30 million to Afghanistan is constantly under careful consideration. This week we set a new temporary policy that will allow for a flexible response to the plight of Afghan civilians. The actors in Finnish support are the UN and non-governmental organisations — it is not directed through or in support of the Taliban. So we are not returning to traditional intergovernmental development cooperation. The humanitarian needs of the world are greater than ever. There are about 240 million people in 56 countries in need of emergency aid. Our humanitarian support this year is EUR 113 million, which is a significant sign of Finland's international responsibility. Mr President! The world economy has grown rapidly since the fall. However, there are uncertainties, other than a pandemic. The technology struggle between the United States and China is continuing, and protectionism is increasing its head. Finland is a bigger builder of digital politics globally. For a country dependent on exports and imports such as Finland, increased protectionism is counterproductive. For Finland, it is essential that the EU does not turn inwards but remains open to trade and investment. That is what we have been working towards, both in the EU and in the WTO. There is now a demand for Finnish expertise in the world. We have set up a new fast track task force to deliver Finnish solutions to the export destination market between 10 and 15. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also working on the Virtual Finland service platform, which combines digital government services to attract experts, companies and investments. Overall, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with Business Finland, has strengthened its own networks in recent years. For example, 20 new export professionals focus on export work. We are also opening embassies in Doha as well as in Dakar, Qatar and Senegal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u20	We're going to the debat. Now I would ask those Members who wish to speak in response to the debate to stand up and ask for the V button by using the floor. — First speech, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u21	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the budget debate, it is good to note the fact that the world has changed and is changing rapidly. Finland's position is the same and remains the same, but we must be able to react quickly to the changing world. I welcome the fact that Finland will take care of the number of delegations and that they will be opened up further. However, in opening up the delegations, we should look at the very countries where we need to invest more. In this situation, when the threat images often come from people other than the immediate neighbours, such as the migration crisis, climate change, international terrorism and other humanitarian emergencies, we should be flexible and agile to act quickly. And I would like to ask the Minister what new consideration is there in the ministry for us to be able to respond quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u22	Representative Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u26	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u27	Madam President! When we respond to global challenges, one of the essential elements is an effective development policy. We have had this parliamentary working group and, Mr Skinner, you pointed out that the discussions have continued in order to achieve this 0.7% of GDP target. I am not referring directly to the fact that it would have an impact when we are trying to reach the UN Security Council, but it can certainly have some kind of signal effect. That is why I ask you once again: when will this parliamentary working party or those parliamentary debates come to such a point that it would be realistic for us to achieve that path, whether it is two parliamentary term or three parliamentary term? This parliamentary term is about to be decided, and there are still no signs that that road map is actually about to be completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u29	Congressman Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u30	Mr President! News coverage for the last week shows that next year the need for traditional diplomacy will grow clearly. Russia's proposal or demand that an international agreement be drawn up between it and the NATO countries, which would limit the enlargement of the Defence Union to the east, in fact means that some sovereign states would lose the opportunity to make their own security policy decisions. This is, you can say, a unique demand in this century, an attempt to return to lobby politics, to bring its thinking. To deal with this situation now requires patience and causes, you may say, the need for traditional diplomacy now on a broad front.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u31	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u32	Mr President! The decline of democracy is taking place in the major countries of the world, such as Brazil and India. There have also been serious developments in fragile new democracies, such as the military coup in Myanmar in February 21 and the recent presidential freeze in Tunisia. The Global State of Democracy study published this year by the International Organization for Democracy (IDEA) reports that the number of countries moving in an authoritarian direction has exceeded the number of countries developing in a democratic direction for the first time in 30 years. During the time of the Koronapandemia, many democratically elected governments and established democracies have also adopted authoritarian methods. It is notable that the same signs have also been seen in the EU Member States, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia. More than I ask, I hope that Finland will play a strong role in defending democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u33	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u34	Madam President! I shall now focus on exports and development aid together, namely Finnfund's activities. Of course, we are more aware now than we were 15 or 20 years ago — when we took tractors and then tried to support development through it — that these export efforts also take into account the global green shift and, in particular, the construction of the basic infrastructure where we put our money. And yes, all the construction of new development in the developing countries will become references to Finnish industry, which must be seen as part of our own profitable business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u36	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u37	Mr President, ärade talman! EU Human Rights Representative Eamon Gilmore attended a meeting of the Human Rights Advisory Board, virtually, but still, talking about human rights, and of course we are very proud that Finland's foreign policy is so human rights-based, and we have tried to reflect on what it means in practice. Eamon Gilmore said wisely to me: he said that many times it is so that we may also be able to learn from others that we may not always be the best. He then spoke of the treatment of refugees and migrants in the world. We in Finland easily think that this is some sort of administrative Ministry of the Interior, but of course it is not just that, because there is such a big challenge in the world to protect people in situations where they are due to leave the country for some reason. And I'd like to ask, For example, millions of people have been admitted to Colombia,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u38	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u39	Madam President! Good things are happening at the State Department now. There's a lot of work to be done. The importance of promoting exports has been raised to the desktop. It is also starting to produce results, and funds are being added to it. The financing of development cooperation has also been strengthened, particularly with regard to NGOs. The fact that efforts are being made to support the activities of these organisations has been a clear strategic choice for this government. International responsibility is also recognised and managed. Good management of representation is also a strengthening of the image of Finland. These are being developed and funding also needs to be increased, as the committee says here. Actually, I would just like to say that Merry Christmas to the Foreign Office, greetings. There is a huge crowd working hard, and both ministers have made an excellent contribution. - Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u40	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u41	Madam Speaker! I was wondering whether we had a little bit of a frenzy about adding delegations, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs argued that they should be increased by helping tourists. Will tourists no longer receive assistance from other EU countries or from the Nordic delegations? However, the fact that the number of embassies or ambassadors is being increased all the time will become a picture of something so great that money would go uphill. I don't want to sound mean in any way, but I don't know if they have to be in every part of the world when resources should be concentrated where they mean. Qatar may therefore be a key area for us to promote exports, but, on the other hand, these ambassadors from neighbouring countries have been quite well placed to deal with the whole region. But I'm not so sure about Senegal. I would like to ask that when it is decided that new representative bodies should be set up
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u42	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u43	Madam President! The government is preparing to give some 3,000 illegal asylum seekers a residence permit to Finland as a one-off solution. According to Minister Mikkonen, the matter is not being prepared; it is being clarified. Many might argue that this is part of the preparation process. Minister Haavisto, you have said and told Parliament that Finland has sought, in all its relations with Iraq, to accept the return of its own citizens in accordance with international law. We have not succeeded in this. The European Union has much stronger muscles than Finland — in economic terms, for example. I ask you: how are the Union's tables dealing with this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u44	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u45	Mr President! A couple of speakers have already said encouraging things about promoting exports. Now it seems to be the right grip to get the Foreign Affairs Administration and the promotion of exports and the business community on a boat together, and I encourage you to continue along that road. In the past, there have been quite some missteps in precisely the fact that removed these things act as ways to promote exports in various organisational changes, and now there is a real reason to go ahead. Secondly, to ensure the availability of vaccines around the world. That is what the representative of the Court of Justice has already mentioned. I am afraid that Finland is now in the wrong place in the WTO debate on the opening up of patent protection in order to enable massive production to take place more quickly on various continents.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u46	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u47	Madam President! It is good that attention is now being paid to this work-related immigration. There are serious bottlenecks here, and there is a huge need for companies to have a skilled workforce. For example, in my own country, South Ostrobothnia, where the employment rate is one of the highest in Finland, companies are actually wrestling with the fact that they would have skilled labour in companies: welders, metal workers, very diversely, companies are in need of these. I would now like to ask about the introduction of the D visa and the dismantling of these bottlenecks: what are the expectations of the Foreign Minister in terms of timetable in this regard? Let this be a question for Minister Haavisto. And then I would ask Minister Skinner: how can we get the provinces to cooperate better with the State Department, so that these bottlenecks can be dismantled and redirected to real money taps and also know-how there,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u48	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u49	Mr President! When international politics are tumbling, Finland's stable and human rights-based foreign policy is indeed in great need. It is therefore to be welcomed that Finland’s presence in the world will be strengthened through, among other things, new representations, various presidencies and peace work. Our handprint is also visible through the invaluable work of many organisations, and I would particularly like to thank UN Women and UNFPA for their support for the rights of girls and women and for the health of girls. There is a greater need for that work than perhaps ever before. As a single withdrawal, I would like to thank you for securing the work of the maternity and reproductive clinics in Afghanistan. We tabled a written question on this recently, and it is great that the decision was taken. It plays a huge role in the lives and health of many girls and women. Health policy is an integral part of foreign policy today, and I agree with this
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u50	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u51	Madam President! I would like to continue with Mr Vanhanen's questions. He considered this challenging situation in the European security system. In Finland, a small country can afford nothing but that, that is, a national consensus linked to foreign and security policy, and of course it is based on a cooperative security and stability policy. The OSCE has also relied on this broad concept of security and these confidence-building measures, but we are well aware that it is in many ways in a challenging situation, even in some respects, that it has failed. Congratulations to Finland anyway! We have taken the initiative that the OSCE Presidency will be 2025 when 50 years have passed since the Etyk process. The President of the Republic has raised the question of ‘the spirit of Helsinki’. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how you will assess this idea: in what sense at the moment we would need this spirit of Helsinki for this European debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u52	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u53	Madam President! Import the HX project, the acquisition of 64 F35 fighters, strengthens industrial cooperation, 6,000 person-years: Patria, Insta and many, many other Finnish companies operating in Finland. We have this high level of expertise, high-tech, but now, ladies and gentlemen, we have had problems with these export licences. According to the sector, the current regime has tightened up, including in those countries where the human rights situation has not deteriorated. The sector has reported that in one year, as much as EUR 700 million of foreign trade has been lost in Finland. I would now like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether you see the problem of this stricter line than the rest of the EU and whether you see the risk that this excellence and these companies will dissipate this expertise from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u54	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u55	Thank you, honourable Speaker! I will continue with the reflections of Mrs Myllykoski and Mr Tavio on both the promotion of exports and development cooperation. From the point of view of exports, it would probably be worth focusing on those most potential destinations and delegations, and possibly making extensions to them, but then there will also be a light model of representation and cooperation with other countries, which is probably a good way to take the matter forward. As far as development cooperation is concerned, it would be useful to clarify the objectives, as the report states, in order to achieve that quality and effectiveness. Opening up the item on development cooperation could be a good way to find those thematic priorities. Then, at the very end of this ‘Helsinki spirit’. I guess that's the spirit of optimism in the midst of all the pandemic and huge changes. I guess that's what they want to take the emphasis on in this room, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u56	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u57	Mr President! Looking at next year seems difficult because, in terms of foreign policy, the world is in considerable turmoil. Next week may be very different globally from what this week is. The world is facing a pandemic, natural disasters and also military threats. It also challenges Finland. I feel like we're going backwards in the world. For the first time in 30 years, poverty is increasing, the status of girls is deteriorating, schooling is decreasing, 240 million people are in the midst of a humanitarian crisis. It will increase refugee status. It is estimated that between 2 and 3 million refugees will be leaving Afghanistan. Ministers, I do not want to be a pessimist, perhaps I am a loathsome realist, but are we sufficiently prepared for this world turmoil?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u58	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u59	Mr President! Finland is the OSCE Presidency in 2025, and this is very good news for Finland. President of the Republic Niinistö has also planned an Etyk Summit in 2025. I would like to ask you, Foreign Minister: has this matter been promoted in the Foreign Office, or is this just a project presented by the President of the Republic? I would like to ask you, Minister for Foreign Trade, how will exports and trade be promoted to the countries of Central Asia? I myself have the impression that there are several countries there, such as Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, where there would be good export opportunities for Finland. They are areas that are the subject of climate change. There is a need for the expertise related to heating, water expertise, infrastructure, health care that Finland could offer. How do we deal with this corner of the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u60	And at this point I will give the ministers the floor, Minister Skinneri 3 minutes and Minister Haavisto 4 minutes. — Minister Skinner, you may begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u61	Mr President! Thank you for the questions, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, began to say that how we respond to the new threats and challenges, and I am sure that this is what we will focus on today, together with the Foreign Minister. This concerns foreign policy to a large extent, but at the same time trade and development policy and foreign and security policy. Representative Judgments reported on this extensive Afghanistan analysis and its need. Thank you for your cooperation, because it is very important that we create a situation picture and work together to find solutions. Mr President, I would now like to take some time into this package of vaccines and this TRIPS exemption initiative, because this has been raised in so many speeches. According to the European Union and Finland, these intellectual property rights are part of the solution, not the problem. There is no evidence to suggest that the TRIPS Agreement stands in the way of the expansion of vaccine production, as this vaccine production requires a great deal of knowledge, logistics, production conditions and raw materials, i.e. it is a very demanding whole. We already see that in Africa, vaccines are not being used, India has reduced production, there are not enough orders, and for South Africa, too, I think this has been more of an industrial policy than a solution to the interest rate. So, all in all, we now have 12 billion doses of vaccines at the end of this year, 20 to 30 billion next year, and in that sense this breaking of IPR rights now could bring adverse side effects on the work against new variants and the preparation for new pandemics. That is what I wanted, President, to take some time to do, because the EU and Finland have been prepared to negotiate with the United States, Norway, New Zealand and Australia, but they have not come up with any concrete proposals. I still went to Washington to negotiate for this. Thus, this whole package of vaccines, copyrights — I agree with the problem, not always solutions. Congressman Hopsu, defense of democracy, Justice Center. It is a unique international solution that we are launching at one of the University of Helsinki, and we expect very much from it. Representative Myllykoski, relationship between development and exports, development of cooperation, construction of basic infrastructure and green transition. The new Global Gateway of the European Union is just such a huge new platform and, at the same time, a response to China's initiative, its aggression. Neither the European Union nor Finland wants to see any vacuums created that would not be filled with the right values. [The President knocks ] Mr Biaudet, how can we defend human rights, Afghanistan? We have just laid down guidelines in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u62	Like this. — And then Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u63	Mr President! There are excellent questions here. — First, Mr Niiko, on representation and flexibility: First of all, thank you for all your support for the creation of new delegations. However, it is the basic infrastructure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to have these permanent representations, and it has indeed been possible this year to open these delegations to Qatar and Senegal — a very important and well-timed Qatar, also in view of the situation in Afghanistan and the rest of the world. With regard to this flexibility: I think that this is actually done primarily through good personal relations in these situations where we need to react quickly. In other words, Finland will be able to contact EU leaders and other world leaders quickly, of course. We have seen the President's active action here, and, for example, with regard to the Afghan crisis, we had very close Nordic cooperation throughout the crisis. It seems that when situations become more acute, such cooperation is needed more. Representative Judgments referred to the study of these experiences in Afghanistan, and these studies are now coming both at the end of the EU and at the end of NATO, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, is doing its own, and it is good that there will also be such independent studies throughout the period that has been in Afghanistan. Mr Vanhanen said this need for traditional diplomacy, and many here also referred to the forthcoming OSCE meeting. It is actually one part of the traditional diplomacy that can be practised these days, the OSCE unity and the OSCE exchange of information. We also asked about this spirit of Helsinki and the initiative of President Niinistö on it. That is an extremely good initiative to achieve such a genuine spirit of debate in Europe, particularly at the level of Heads of State. The year 25 may still be so far away — in the various countries there will be elections, changes of leaders and this type, and of course the implementation will depend on these too, in the good spirit of the year 25 — but, of course, this preparatory work has been started at the Foreign Affairs Office for the year 25. We want to breathe a little breath into this OSCE, at least with regard to these frozen conflicts that are currently in the OSCE region. Mr Biaudet drew attention to important human rights issues. When you mention refugees from Venezuela and Colombia, it is good to remember that the large number of refugees coming to Europe comes from that part of Latin America and we have a lot of undocumented people in Spain and so on. When we are in the EU area, it is good to remember that Latin America's load and these undemocratic regimes also weigh heavily on the EU. Mr Zyskowicz asked how the EU was able to deal with this Iraq issue: in the same way, the Iraq issue was raised at the EU tables. Perhaps such a small silver lining in the cloud is that in this issue of Belarus Iraq has been activated and taken back its own citizens, and these return flights have been arranged. That this dialogue in that respect has worked. Iraq often appeals to them to wait, according to my knowledge, for about 50,000 people on the Syrian side who should be returned there, and of course when we talk about these numbers of people, they are quite large quantities. Representative Savola asked about the introduction of the D-Visa: Personally, at least I expect it to help bring experts and startup experts and others to Finland quickly and that the second phase of the D-Visa, which could then help students and others, will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u66	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u67	Mr President! Mr Hopsu spoke very well here about the challenges of democracy in this time and, admittedly, these corona restrictions and how different people have bubbled around this corona from different angles have certainly caused internal tensions in Western countries that have not been seen in a long time. Of course, this cultural war is still going on in the United States as such, and I suspect that these authoritarianly-managed countries are also bubbling very strongly within them. I assume that in Russia, too, this is one thing. My question is, is it now that these internal tensions have become so significant that they then threaten to become external tensions and we will need this diplomacy even more strongly, to which Mr Vanhanen referred?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u68	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u69	Madam President! Mr Tavio's speech on the network of delegations has fallen in the ear, but I understand that you too have a common line with us that the network of delegations should be extended and strengthened and taken care of in the wider sense, at least what I have been following your positions, by the way. Let us hope that the opposition can continue to support the government in this direction. My question concerns, Minister, crisis management, now that more plans have been made and the parliamentary committee has also taken a position on it if participation in Africa is to be increased. How do you feel and see how this will affect costs, above all, of course... — well, both militaryly and on the civilian side of crisis management — and what role will Finland play in foreign policy in Africa if we become more involved there in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u70	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u71	Mr President! I would like to continue this debate on corona vaccines. I understand very well that there is no slippage of patent protection in the interests of vaccine manufacturers. In the case of AIDS, HIV medicines, this has been done for years, precisely for public health reasons. I do not think that interest is a lesser public health problem. Of course, there may be other options. However, given that these companies have also received a very large amount of public money from the EU for the development of these vaccines, I believe that something should follow from that public money. It is certainly the case that manufacturing technology is very demanding, that at 70 minuses it is demanding and so away. But this public support could be conditional on:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u72	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u73	Madam President! I will return to this matter of Iraq and to the return agreement. I encourage further negotiations. I will relate a little to this situation and history in Finland. We took 440,000 evacs from Karelia. I'm from Karelia. That was 11 per cent of the population back then, citizens of their own country. Iraq is receiving international aid. For Finland, Marshall aid was not good enough for political reasons. It is quite extraordinary that international aid from Finland is also good enough for Iraq, but the citizens of their own country are not good enough. Now that you have raised the issue and good signals have also come from that part of Belarus, what kind of reception do diplomats, your fellow ministers or similars from the direction of Iraq give you? Are there cultural differences and cultural differences between Iraqis and Finns? However, I would encourage further efforts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u74	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u75	Mr President! Like former Secretary of State Alexander Stubb, I have three points: First. From the point of view of export promotion, education and cleantech are the number one, because this is exactly what we want to do in the world, and I think that focusing on it is the best democracy work that Finland can do in the world, and it is, of course, the right euro here in Finland. The second point is this question of vaccination coverage in Africa. It is about 6-10% at the moment. As long as it is low in Africa, it is very likely that we will receive variations from Africa as well as from the rest of the world. At this point, Finland could now have a role to play in highlighting the fact that, from the point of view of our economy and the European economy, too, it is in our interest to increase vaccination coverage elsewhere, and this is something that must now also be emphasised at the mouth of Parliament. Point three, quick.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u76	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u77	Mr President! Influencing foreign policy requires strategism and long-termism, and international multilateral organisations are an integral part of this whole of our foreign policy. I myself only made one budget initiative, and that was precisely the budget of these international organisations. Thank you very much to the Committee on Finance, which dealt with this matter and received an increase in the budget. As we know, the central focus of Finland’s development cooperation is to promote women’s and girls’ rights and equality. I would have liked to ask Minister Skinner: what is the situation now with the UN Women financing decision, which has been a source of ambiguities? In addition, I would like to repeat this representative on the road map of the Estonian question concerning the direction of development cooperation funding towards the 0.7 objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u78	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u79	Mr President! Illegal immigration is a serious problem in Finland. At the moment, we are sending out the wrong kind of messages to the world. The Ministry of the Interior explains how illegal residence could become legal, and the Finnish Minister of the Interior has also defended this goal in the media. At the same time, a high-skilled worker or a student of higher education will have to expect abroad to be allowed to enter, [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u80	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u81	Thank you, Madam President. The world situation has become much more unstable and difficult to predict. The United States, China, Russia and India are growing, and their importance and role in world politics have become even more difficult to predict. The long line between the small nation and Finland has been to invest in multilateralism and rule-basedness, and it is worth continuing to defend and uphold this line. It is in the interests of Finland, and it is in the interests of the whole world. I strongly support the expansion of the delegation network. It's more than just helping tourists. It is the promotion of peace, the promotion of human rights, trade, the image of the country, and so on, and this is a very important work. In this changed world, also give my strong support to the spirit of Helsinki and the possible summit. This is the message that defends the interests of the country and also the interests of the multilateral and rule-based world.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u82	Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u83	Madam President! With Angela Merkel out of the world political scene, the countries of the European Union are looking for a little new role. Spain, in particular, is seeking a more important role in this cooperation between countries. I had the pleasure of meeting the Finnish Ambassador to Spain a few weeks ago, who also sparred us to increase our trade with Spain. Our trade was at its peak in 2007, but it was collapsed by the economic crisis. Imports from Spain have now almost returned to normal, but exports from Finland are still only about half of the former. I would like to ask Minister Skinner: what is the assessment of Angela Merkel's departure from European politics? And on the other hand, what are the possibilities for Finland, how are we going to get our exports back to Spain?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u84	Congressman Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, this increase in the network of representations is absolutely welcome. Participation in international crisis management is also important. It also bears responsibility for these global crises and regional crises. UN military observation missions are also quite cost-effective ways of showing the Finnish flag there at UN map tables in Geneva and New York. In addition, between the Nordic countries, these UN training centres have agreed to implement these observer courses in Finland at the International Centre of the Defence Forces. However, Finland only sends military observers to the UNTSO mission. Would it be possible to extend this participation to these small observer missions, which are therefore very cost-effective, and to send Finnish observers all over the world, including UNMOGIP, again? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u86	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u87	Mr President! It is important to promote exports and investments to Finland. Last year, exports from our country accounted for more than 36 per cent of GDP. Now, in order to promote exports here, the ramp is calamitous — thanks to Minister Skinner for that. President! With this pandemic, extreme poverty and hunger in the world have increased and growth and development results are now at risk. The availability of sufficient nutritious and healthy food worldwide has deteriorated. In Finland's development cooperation, how could food security and food security diplomacy be strengthened and the role of food security also increased in the European Union's development policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u88	Congressman Kinnunen, Jari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Foreign Affairs Haavisto, thank you for your good contribution to the practical crisis management work. However, crisis-management veterans have been granted a plastic card which allows them to prove themselves to be crisis-management veterans, nothing much more. This may not be your area of government, but I would like to ask whether you could influence the relevant ministries in such a way that post-care, care and rehabilitation of crisis management veterans who are physically disabled or suffering from post-traumatic symptoms would be brought to an appropriate level and would not depend on the arbitrariness of the state office's insurance doctors and only on voluntary organisations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u90	I will give the representatives Judgments and Niikko's replies and then the ministers. — And the representative of the Judgments, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u91	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Skinner for opening up this patent protection debate and issue. I think it is very important. It is true that vaccine production is very demanding, requires expertise and infrastructure, but it should not be raised by the fact that it requires high patent fees. And then there's the other side. We have indeed invested public money in the development of vaccines, and it has produced results and good vaccines, but also huge profits. This, too, is an intolerable situation. Then there is another point I would like to make. When we talk here in many debates about these illegal immigrants, let us say that all these 3000 who are in Finland have come legally in themselves, have not been granted asylum rights, it has been established, but they have not committed any crime, and this is significant in this regard, and it is not their fault if their own country is not prepared to accept them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u93	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u94	Thank you, Mr President. At this stage, it is time to thank the ministers for their good cooperation with the committee. In our time, we have received the information we needed, and cooperation with you has been flexible and good. To conclude, I would like to say that this year Parliament has dealt with both the Foreign and Security Policy Report and the Defence Report, and their strong message together was continuity. The important stone legs of foreign policy are unchanged. Finland is a militarily non-aligned country. Finland has a strong defence of its own. The EU is the most important security community. Cooperation with Sweden is extensive and deep, and we also have a NATO option. In fact, NATO membership hardly spoke to the representatives at all, so it may be that Parliament considers Finland’s current relationship with NATO sufficient, regardless of these situations, what is happening here. But, at the end of the day, I would like to ask you that the dispute between Russia and NATO seems to be in a bad closed knot. I'd like to ask the Minister how we can get diplomacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u95	Like this. And then both ministers for four minutes. And will Secretary Skinner begin? Here you go. If you want to take the mask off your face, you can do it here in the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u96	Mr President! Representative Tavio: Why open new embassies? — Of course, it is important, and it has become very clear from the point of view of trade, development and foreign policy, and thank you for your support, because this is very important. We'll get back to the details later. Representative Savola: How are the provinces involved in promoting exports? — It is in this context that we have now set in motion the whole package of Finland that we are doing with all the cities, regions, business associations, chambers of commerce. We all want to be involved, the provinces. This work is under way, and hopefully the corona will enable as many provinces as possible to be involved. Representative Vähämäki: Effectiveness, effectiveness and effectiveness of development cooperation. — — — — The result report will be ready next year, which means that the work will be done. Representative Salonen: Are we prepared for the world's turmoil? — Here too, perhaps, as regards climate policy, it must be said that the objectives are running away from reality, and we need not only new resources but also new ways of taking climate solutions, digital solutions, equality work, all important work forward, and here, certainly Finland, the European Union, but also the World Bank, all the donors, we have had a lot of discussion at OECD level about how to fill, say, how to do it smartly, constructively. Of course, companies must also be involved because, for example, the $30 billion after Glasgow will not be enough. We need new ways, innovative ways, moving solutions forward, and that is where Finland is world class. Representative Siren: How is UN Women funding? — — — — A decision has been taken on this yesterday, EUR 19 million. Our cooperation is very close and effective. Representative Kauma: How to promote exports to Central Asia — Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan: Finland stands out very well there, we have very good political relations. I am about to organise an Economic Commission with Kazakhstan, and I also led the Central Asia Group in this house. I see a great deal of potential in all sectors and also in education. Congressman Laukkanen wished me a merry Christmas. — — — — Merry Christmas to you too, Mr Laukkanen, although you are obviously not in this state. Representative Hassi, representative Judgments — once again for vaccine manufacture: Pharmaceutical manufacturing — an excellent example of HIV, but it is a very different process and a very demanding one. At the time, the flexibility of the TRIPS Agreement was used, it worked. But even now we can use the flexibility of TRIPS and so we can act; we have an existing system for it, but vaccines are much more demanding than medicines. You could say metaphorically that medicines can be made in a garage, but even in Finland there is no readiness for vaccines without preparation. What, then, is it in the developing world? I'm sure we'll come back to this many more times. Finally, Mr President, al-Taee: money transport, liquidity problems. — — — — Unfortunately, banks close accounts: Syria, Afghanistan, North Korea. We have worked together with the countries of the European Union and reached a solution. Representative Järvinen: Trade with Spain. — — — — I'm just preparing a trip there together with the companies. Hopefully, with Madrid and other Spanish cities, we will be able to move forward. Representative Kettunen: Exports important, how about food security? — I am the school food ambassador for WFP, more than 60 countries involved. This is a very big example and a good example of how Finland has been involved in the systematic development of education in France, the United States, Russia and the wider world. Finnish school food serves as an example, and the goal is that every child, girl and boy in the world should receive school food by 2030. That's a tough goal, but we're working on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u97	Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u98	Mr President! Thank you again for your excellent contributions. To some of them I will return: Mr Satonen, Mr Hopsu and Mr Hopsu In fact, from a few different angles, Könttä dealt with this coming of a great power policy and also with the negative development of democracy and the development of authoritarianism, and, yes, it may be that the internal situation of the major powers can be reflected in their external relations and foreign policy objectives. We live on much more complex terrain than we used to do on these. Mr Ovaska asked how Africa is reflected in crisis management and foreign policy: I am sure this is the case with the European Union's shared responsibility for what is happening in northern Africa growing, and at the same time as we think about participation in crisis management, it is good to focus more on that political dynamic and to think about what it can offer, including the peace mediation sector, in this region. Mr Kiuru asked what it has been like to negotiate with Iraq on return issues. One might say that they have the main concern of controlling their own geographical area. They very often point out in these speeches that they have not yet reached a situation in which they are able to control their own territory in their sovereign country, and this, of course, is perhaps the most pressing concern at the moment with regard to security issues. Mr Tynkkynen rightly said to me how painful it has been, for example, for university students to go to Finland now, especially during this pandemic crisis: quite unreasonable expectations, excessive bureaucracy. It has not all been us in this situation, but, as I said, I hope that the D visa, not only for experts, but also for students in the future, will then help in this bureaucracy. Representative Könttä made a good list of foreign policy objectives. You can only really agree with what you have said. The other side of Mr Järvinen's question was Europe after Mrs Merkel, and it can of course be said that with great interest the programme of the new German Government is now being followed and is being launched. We have also had the first contacts at Foreign Minister level with the new Foreign Minister. There is much new in the German Government's programme and it will certainly bring a new impetus to the European debate. Of course, the forthcoming French Presidency, the elections in France and others will also mean a new dynamic on that side. Representative Kaleva raised an important issue regarding military observation operations: This is a bit of a school issue sometimes, is there a desire for major operations with experience of having several military personnel in the same operation, or is it possible to say a little like the intelligence cells in different operations, so that information can be obtained from many regions. I myself think very much as you do that it is useful to have only a few observers in key operations so that knowledge and knowledge can be brought out of them. Mr Kinnunen — first of all, thank you for the recognition of the work that is now being done — said this matter of crisis veterans: This has spoken to Parliament several times, and I fully agree with you that these services must be in place and proper for those people who, on behalf of Finland, have done this work in crisis management tasks. After all, these protection issues have also been raised, that is, that they get the vaccines in time so that they do not get into a dangerous situation as a result. Finally, Mr Niikko, you have thanked us for our good cooperation, and it is my turn to thank both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the whole Parliament for their excellent cooperation. When you look a little at this autumn, starting with the extraordinary meeting and meetings in Afghanistan, there has been a lot of shark shit, but there has been good cooperation. Thank you for that, and Mrs Laukkanen also said Merry Christmas to everyone!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u99	I did, and now we will move on to the list of speakers. — Representative Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u100	Madam President! I would like to return a little more to my debate because I specifically wanted to point out that we have bilateral development cooperation. It is a good thing if we have the EU as the engine, and the fine word – whatever it is, which is not always able to repeat even after hearing – is that we are active in the EU because it is, however, a world power in development cooperation. It is precisely that, in principle, we would not have the same thing as we did for a well-developed waste incineration plant a few years ago: The first project received support to export the plant, but when the second round came, the Finnish State was no longer there to support it, and that was the end of it. Those facilities are no longer... There was no reference effect which would have been able to sell them to non-developing countries. I would like to emphasise that everything that is put on, which is felt by business alone, is being made a basic infrastructure for developing countries. Not so much machines and equipment, but the fact that the conditions for living in developing countries are improving and that, at the same time, it is possible to move ahead with integration and equality. For them, the creation of a reference plant, wherever it happens, is of the utmost importance for our exports. Minister Skinner has been commended for his export efforts. It would be nice to take a look at the minister's passport once in a while: how many people are already going in this parliamentary term? But, if anything, we currently have serious problems for farmers in our own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u103	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u104	Madam President! Representative At the beginning of Myllykoski's speech, it is easy to agree with the private sector's contribution to development cooperation. For example, the Turkanajärvi wind farm is just a good example of how the development cooperation project has improved the conditions of local people and businesses. We have already talked about this extension of the network of representations. The Foreign Affairs Committees, as long as I have been in this Chamber, have always been able to stress it, and so it is in force. I also think it is worth thanking our ambassadors, who around the world are very committed to promoting exports. They are one of the top sellers in the world — naturally in cooperation with Finnish companies. Now that we are considering the current world trade situation, we can certainly say with one voice that it is under enormous pressure. We have tariff disputes, the WTO situation is almost stalemate, trade agreements are very difficult to promote and, in general, these geopolitical tensions in different countries in different situations come to the skin, not to mention how much the interest rate has hindered our export activity. This is an excellent thing that further efforts have been made to promote exports. I was very pleased to hear that Minister Skinner has agreed that there will be joint export efforts with Sweden and, last Tuesday, when there was a hearing with the Finnish-German parliamentary group, the German-Finnish Chamber of Commerce on how the most efficient export organisation in the German world works, we must also learn lessons from that. Then, to Foreign Minister Haavisto, a reminder of our discussions last December on the role of women in crisis management. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. I'm not asking any questions. I wish both ministers a very peaceful Christmas season.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u105	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u106	Mr President! I will return to the debate on corona vaccines. I would ask both the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European Union experts to listen to the experts who say and estimate that vaccine production is possible in some developing countries. By coincidence, just today I saw an article in the New York Times on this subject. The magazine had interviewed a number of experts in the field, and their message was that although, of course, not all developing countries have informed, industrial and other capabilities for vaccine production, there are such developing countries. According to these experts, such capacities exist in, for example, South Africa, Thailand, India, Brazil and Argentina. Just as Mr Tuomioja has said here, the situation is that the pharmaceutical companies have made huge profits with vaccines, which are very necessary to us, which I am sure the majority of those sitting in this Chamber have taken and whose development has been very much made with public money. I really continue to call for Finland and the EU to think of our own security on this issue also through the fact that, as has already been said here, until all the countries of the world are safe, no country will be safe. But then, in general terms, I just want to say that I think it is a very good thing that the basic principles of Finland's development cooperation are a very long continuum. We know that the key issues for long-term security, for global security, which must be resolved are the climate crisis, the natural disaster, but also global inequality and poverty. And I think it is very important that Finland's development cooperation has for a very long time stressed those issues that are important for solving poverty. One of these is the improvement of the position of women, the sexual and reproductive health work and the training of women and the promotion of independent earnings, which are important ways and most effective ways of also curbing birth rates, thereby contributing to global demographic change and also contributing to the development of countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u107	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u108	Madam President! I would like to highlight four different themes here. Firstly, this big issue of security policy tension, which is now obvious and touching in Europe. And here, among other things, Mrs Myllykoski said that there is no optimism in the air, it seems to be going worse. In fact, I would like to say in this way that there is potential optimism in the air: the major powers are discussing. It's important. We've already talked about alternative methods. As far as Ukraine is concerned, the Minsk agreement is being maintained and Normandy formatia is being applied for as discussion forums, and in this respect it is being sought to discuss and try to resolve this crisis, which now exists, by means of diplomacy. The spirit of Helsinki — yes, what is the spirit of Helsinki? It's a dialogue. It's a dialogue. It is not a matter of confrontation. It stresses that each party has legitimate security interests and needs to be identified. And that legitimacy, of course, means that, in a way, security is indivisible: the insecurity of one is the insecurity of all. That was the spirit of Helsinki back then. But it also respects sovereignty, absolute sovereignty from the participants. Also, with regard to the various safety solutions, there is a free choice that is self-evident. So these are the elements in which we have to seek the consensus, and I am sure that the right solutions will then be found. Secondly, Mr President, there has been a lot of discussion here on development cooperation, quite rightly, it is a big theme. It shows international responsibility, including solidarity, and takes up the dialogue in another way, i.e. through development efforts this broad security is at the root of it. And it must also be said positively about this government, which has been that there has been a change of direction in development cooperation. The very amount of development is shown by the fact that, when the previous government decided to do so, we had a level of 0.35% development cooperation, now it is 0.49%. Of course, in today's debate, a legitimate demand has been made for it when the 0.7 target set by the UN has been included in the government programme since 1970. Now, Finland would reach it in 2030, so that this road map would do well to be visible and towards it we would, of course, have to move forward in the discussions. I would like to ask the Minister what the fate of the road map seems to be at the moment. Then there are two other observations. The Minister of Foreign Affairs brought up some details — but large details — of mediation activities within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Congratulations to the Minister, of course, we must say right away that this mediation centre has now been established in Finland within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs — I think there are seven officials at the moment in that centre. It is at the heart of the area in which Finland can provide so-called good services in international crisis situations and in other situations when there is a debate, seeking – most often for internal conflicts – a state of negotiation or the possibility of finding compromises, thereby calming the situation. This is a valuable thing. Of course, we are not yet at the level of Switzerland or Norway, which are the leading powers in mediation. But definitely it is a step forward and to the greatest extent supports the foreign policy approach taken in Finland. We are bridge builders, peace builders, compromise seekers, trying to stabilise, to stabilise everywhere, to create space for means other than military solutions and military pressure. This is the Finnish line, and it is also a vital approach for us. And then the fourth point I wanted to raise here is this debate on the network of representations. I was a little confused when I heard the speeches here that someone put a question about the extension of the network of representations so that the Minister had to think about how to justify the extension of the network of delegations. The question should be the other way around, and so I ask the Minister: it is obvious that we need to be more visible and present in the world. What does the future look like? It's a great solution for two new embassies next year. How does that follow-up show up? That would be most essential, because it is a concrete presence in different countries that gives us the space to influence in many ways, also to promote our own objectives, whether they be commercial, political or otherwise. This is a big deal. And there could be thought of these lighter solutions, which Sweden, for example, engages in, that more people should be employed at the site, so that it would be a little lighter, and thus that presence could be strengthened. Nothing but that way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u109	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u110	Madam President! Finland’s foreign and security policy line is stable and predictable, Finland has a strong dialogue with different directions and wants to be a bridge builder. This is a good line, this is a long-term line, and it is good that we also have a strong parliamentary consensus on it, but this environment is unstable and, you may say, difficult to predict at the moment. This debate has been through these speeches over the last few weeks and months, which have been carried out by world leaders, and this is worrying, of course, that Russia is trying to build an interest in itself and is also trying to prevent the foreign and security policies of independent states from being drawn up. This is particularly evident now in Ukraine, where there is a difficult situation. Madam Speaker! This NATO debate and Russia's NATO-criticalness, to which this lobby thinking is also based, are not new things, this has been a long time. Of course, from our point of view, we make our own decisions from our own perspective. I believe that NATO is a security factor in Europe and that partnership with NATO is an important issue. Finland is a partner, a strong partner together with Sweden, and we practice together, we exchange information together, and this will also contribute to us, among other things, security of supply factors, and it is important to continue this partnership. Madam Speaker! Over the past year, we have also been able to deal with the reports in Parliament, both in the parliamentary monitoring groups and then in the parliamentary proceedings themselves, and they highlight the long-term foreign and security policy line and the strong fact that Finland is taking care of its own defence, its own security, both in terms of procurement, general military service, reserve defence and troops, as well as in terms of internationalism and international partners. This is central to the fact that we have also agreed unanimously in this House and we will stick to this line. Madam Speaker! To this promotion of exports and work-related immigration, I would also like to say that, as in that debate on the debate, ministers Haavisto and Skinner responded well, both to the introduction of this D visa and to the promotion of this work-related immigration, that they are absolutely essential and that they must now be speeded up, because there is a strong demand for labour. Of course, I would like to use my own province as an example, South Ostrobothnia, where, for example, we need workers on the metal side, we need workers on the agricultural side, especially seasonal workers, and these obstacles to getting this workforce cannot be bureaucratic. The unfortunate fact is that South Ostrobothnia has a 6.1 per cent unemployment rate, and we have, for example, the municipality of Suortane, where the unemployment rate is 3.8 per cent. We have an employment rate so high that simply the labour force in that region is no longer available, and that is why these doors must now be opened both in the direction of education and in the direction of this labour-related immigration. We have launched an immigration programme in the Federation of Southern Ostrobothnia, whose steering group I myself am running. That is why I would like to stress strongly the cooperation that we can do with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we can find solutions to these problems together, that we can direct companies to gain employment, that we can internationalise companies and that we can therefore respond to the problems that exist in the province. Madam Speaker! For my part, also Merry Christmas to the whole Parliament and thank you
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u111	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u112	Mr President! We were all hit by the Koronapandem, but in relative terms it is the poorest citizens in the poorest countries. In addition to the health crisis, developing countries are dealing with a socio-economic crisis which also affects their internal stability and security. Corona pandemic has had a wide impact on the economy, social development, equality, food security, mobility and education of developing countries. For the first time in 30 years, poverty in the world is increasing. Given the unprecedented difficulties of the global humanitarian situation, it is important that Finland continues to make significant investments in humanitarian aid next year. Unlike some in this Chamber, it is not necessary to help the poorest people in the world to be away from those in need of Finnish help. We can choose to help both the poorest children in the world and our own, and this is how the present government chooses. Mr President! In addition to development cooperation, next year's draft budget focuses on strengthening Finland's network of representatives, supporting the availability of labour and participation in international crisis management, conflict prevention and mediation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also continue to develop the Team Finland Export Promotion Network to support the business opportunities and employment of Finnish companies and prepare new solutions to promote exports and trade. In addition to the corona crisis, solutions to other challenges such as climate change are currently being sought in the world. It is in Finland’s interest to influence the types of models chosen. Finland can use its strong expertise to export climate-resistant solutions, health technology and digitalisation at the moment. Mr President! Even though I put forward a very threatening idea for the future in the debatation itself, I believe, as Minister Skinner said, that we still have the opportunity to be part of the solution, but it also requires a new attitude on our part, a new way of thinking about our actions. Participation in decision-making international cooperation is the cornerstone of Finland’s foreign and security policy and Finland’s own interest. Finland itself, as a small, open economy and society, is highly dependent on international stability and peace, and it is therefore important that every effort be made to promote it itself. The interest crisis has shown that the priorities of Finland's foreign and security policy and development policy broadly support the resilience of societies. Improving the position of women, creating jobs, quality education, democracy, human rights and the fight against climate change are now even more relevant than before the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u113	Congressman Vikman is gone. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u114	Mr President! Finland's role in foreign and security policy issues is recognised and recognised in the Parliament as crucial in many respects when different tensions begin to break. In that sense, it can be said that we are bigger than we are on these issues. We have excellent expertise in peace and crisis management in the world for decades, and hopefully this same development will continue. Mr President! After all, this position in Finland in the context of crisis work in neighbouring regions has not changed or is not changing. The operating environment will change, but when the operating environment changes, of course, we should also ask ourselves whether we can change at the same time. By this I mean that now that we are considering, for example, these crises that are about to arise in nearby areas, how can we deal with them? I think it would be good if we could continue to promote the good diplomatic interaction rather than all the harsh words, and in that sense I would like to send a message to the Foreign Minister that I wish we had the patience and the hock of our clients in this country, that we would be the cookers and not the sparklers. Mr President! Then I want to go into this budget. This increase in export promotion to Team Finland has been well taken into account in this budget, and in that sense this direction is quite the right one. However, we must be careful how these means are put into practice, because it is not enough to increase the money alone to increase the results. We should perhaps take the example of our western neighbour or of other Central European countries that are promoting exports. They often have other kinds of tools in their briefcase. It is very important, for example, to select the right key players and players when we start looking for market areas: what kind of staff do we hire, how much experience they have in long-term trade and such export work. Not only are good grades such as these, but it also requires a personal experience from those who go to such projects, and according to the information I have received, it has not always gone all the way to the finish line. Mr President! I'll be back for a while and I'll be right there in front of you. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! I will not prolong my speech very long, but I would like to say a few words about these aid funds. After all, there has been a debate and preparation in the Parliament for this report on development cooperation, which, as I am sure you can imagine, is certainly not unanimous. This is because Finns do not see the 0.7% of GDP target as the primary means of reducing poverty or inequality or solving the problems that arise in the world. This is what we saw, for example, as far as Afghanistan is concerned. For 20 years, Finland contributed several hundreds of millions of euros in quotes. The result wasn't exactly what we expected. In that sense, such an increase to 0.7% of gross domestic product does not alone provide those solutions. This would mean that by 2030 around EUR 1000 million would be needed on top of the current development funds, and in that sense, unfortunately, the Finns of Finland do not see such a development.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u115	Now let me say that there are six speeches here and then on with the Ministers' speeches and we have a little more than 15 minutes to do this for now. Then there will be a two-hour debate on the second case, that is to say, the second section, and then we will continue to do so if there are any speeches to be made. — Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u116	Mr President! I will reply briefly to Mr Niiko in relation to development aid. He's partly right. Money doesn't solve everything, but money is one of the ways in which it works. This whole thing should not be thought binaryly. It is not a zero-sum game in the sense that money achieves certain things and when it is used efficiently enough, then immigration happens less in the world and people stay in refugee camps and then move to their homes — as you well understand. I was in the working group myself, and I remember that the Finns did not have any problems with this aspect of efficiency and that money should be put exactly where it is most useful. And then there's another question. It was not just this 0.7 problem that the Finns of Peru worked on, but that development aid was considered directly related to Finland’s security policy, foreign and security policy. This was what the True Finns wanted to delete as a record. This is what they had trouble with. The rest of us felt that this is what will have security policy implications when immigrants leave their homes and move towards Europe. And now, in this crisis in Belarus, we see how wrong the Finns were about this. Then there's the rest. There is a lot of talk about what is happening in Ukraine and what is happening at the Ukrainian border at the moment. Now that we are also about EUR 4 million from the budget to put peace mediation, I would like to see more discussion, Minister Haavisto, on how Finland could act as a doctor instead of a judge on these issues. President Niinistö has had excellent and consistent exits on how to calm the situation and how Finland's role could also play a clearly visible part in this and take care of our non-alignment on these issues. Yes, I would feel that it would be much easier for Finns to talk more about these foreign policy issues, to use more speeches precisely from the point of view that we are not a party to conflicts, but are a solution to them, and what kind of solutions we could offer, what kind of partnerships we could offer and how Helsinki could act as a place to create such good services for those countries that want to settle their disputes. And I know that you have in the pipeline, Foreign Minister Haavisto, a peace broker when you are, a lot of such projects are going on. I would like to hear more about these, and many other Finns would also like to hear about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u117	Thank you. — And Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u118	Mr President! Afghanistan became an expensive lesson for everyone. Tax money burned in sacks does not at present illustrate the future prospects of an Afghan girl. Even if there is no record of Christmas in the country, many girls are offered a soft package, which now reveals burka instead of woolen socks. Instead of helping, other parties want more of these expensive lessons. Development aid is being turned into a commitment to sink more and more money into it. The results don't matter as long as we look good at international banquet tables. However, the tin of champagne glasses is a foreign language for those most in need. Even the Finns of Peru don't give a shit about clinking. Instead, we are prepared to take aid to those in distress in the crisis area. However, we are not prepared to fly everyone to Finland and drop debt money from the plane around the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u119	Thank you. — Mr Biaudet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u120	Mr President! I shall try not to be provoked by this last speech. It does not necessarily make much sense to go to a debut if there is such a different world view and a different moral concept. When we discuss foreign policy issues, we usually talk about how to build security and peace and democracy. That is why, for a long time, we have had the argument that such a comprehensive approach is extremely important, and Agenda 2030 is a good map of that. That is why there has also been talk today about development cooperation funds, because although we certainly have a very good assessment and definition of our content, it is necessary to accept that if there is very little money, then of course there will be fewer results and less opportunities for influence. We should now be able to show that we are moving towards a more Nordic level, where we could also increase our effectiveness in multilateral cooperation. It is absolutely essential for the credibility of this government that, during this parliamentary term, we should be able to raise it from 0.5 to 0.7 and we should be able to draw up a plan for it. Human rights-basedness is another important practical rule in our foreign policy. It would therefore be important for us to consider how it could be even stronger, for example, in promoting exports in the operations of Business Finland. Many Finnish companies may not have such deep skills, so it is important for them not to have to pay for expensive learning money that they can be supported in this knowledge when they are out there looking for business. Of course, this human rights-based approach is also very important in view of our multilateral cooperation. It is quite clear that the UN and so on is perhaps quite easy, because that agenda comes from there. But when we also talk about the spirit of Helsinki and the OSCE, I would like to remind you that the OSCE is not just such a major policy and such a ‘hard security’, military security, but abysmal country after Helsinki, after the 1970s,there has been a real build-up of a solid human rights-based and cooperative approach to building trust,and,for example, the fight against trafficking in human beings has been well developed. I would like us to have objectives and strong objectives for that Presidency, not just here in the Great Power Policy area. The same applies to the presidency of the Barents region. There, too, the aim is to have such a ‘peopletopeple’ and, for example, civil society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u121	Congressman Siren, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u122	Mr President! If it is important for foreign policy to move forward in a long-term and strategic way, this is of course also important for these financing decisions. As far as international organisations and strong Finnish civil society are concerned, the long-term challenge lies in the fact that funding is quite fragmented and the funding periods are short, but it was great news that the Committee on Finance added to the article of international organisations. It will contribute to creating these conditions for the coming year. Of course, long-term and predictability are important here for the whole of development cooperation funding, which has now been the subject of several speeches. Finland has committed itself to this 0.7% of GDP target, and now, unfortunately, we have no information on what steps, what time frame, long-term, as predictable as possible, Finland would be going towards this target and whether or not it is. In fact, what we know at the moment is that the current percentage is 0.49 or less than half a percent, and it is also known that the government has decided to cut EUR 35 million since the year 23, the next budget, which we will be dealing with. This plan and the road map have now been asked in a number of speeches, and it would be wonderful if Mr Skinner had the opportunity to respond to this in the course of this debate. There are a wide range of debates taking place here in the Chamber of Parliament, but it must be said that it is very valuable that the budget debate in the section of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is so constructive and good-spirited. I would like to thank the ministers very much for trying to answer these questions both in this debate and in previous debates on foreign policy. Indeed, the world is in quite a tumult right now. Great power policy is changing, and we have huge global challenges. Finland is a small country, but we too can play a major role in our multilaterally strong operations in international fields. Our foreign policy is long-term and strategic. Very good Christmas time for the ministers and everyone else.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u123	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u124	Mr President! I had thought to talk a little longer about crisis management and the peace process, but with the timetable more closely about development cooperation and a little more about the situation in Afghanistan. Thank you for the long-term report on development policy over the run-up to the elections. In its development policy, Finland emphasises the themes based on its own values and strengths. These include women's and girls' rights, quality education, a sustainable economy and decent work, democratic societies and climate change, biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources. Finland also provides humanitarian aid to help people suffering from crises. Unfortunately, there is a growing need for all of this in the world. Especially as a result of corona pandemic, extreme poverty and hunger in the world have turned to growth and many developments are at risk. In addition to acute crisis management, the recovery phase requires significant international support. That is why we still need a road map for this and future parliamentary term to reach the UN commitments set out in the Government Programme. The migration debate has also become an increasingly important political factor around the world. As climate change progresses, we will certainly be facing this debate for decades to come. I hope that in the spirit of dialogue rather than in the spirit of a declaration — that is what has been said earlier. Mr President! A few words about Afghanistan. The humanitarian situation has been difficult for years. Now about half the population is in need of humanitarian aid. The causes are large-scale and long-term poverty and the problems it poses. On top of this, the difficult security situation, climate change and now the corona, including winter, threatens. The World Food Programme WFP estimates that in the winter, 22.8 million people in Afghanistan need food aid. 8.7 million people are in a state of emergency. Members of several families living in Finland or partners of a Finnish actor are in need of humanitarian assistance as well as at risk of human rights violations. Many younger sisters who have received a residence permit in Finland, all girls over 12 years of age, cannot continue schooling or move from home. How could Finland continue to evacuate or help obtain a visa, family reunification or at least continue development cooperation, even in the form of this so-called humanitarian plus? Despite these words — Merry Christmas to the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u125	Thank you. — It is now time to move on to the Ministers' speeches, and these remaining requests will then be made after the next section. — Minister Skinner, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u126	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski rightly asked about Russia and trade and its importance. Russia is still an important trading partner for Finland, and in trade policy we face challenges, but we are also looking for solutions in this sector and we are engaged in intensive dialogue, and of course there is also, between the EU and Russia, the Northern Dimension, which has endured storms before and is now a tool that we can use in this situation for these four pillars, and for Finland, too, a very important tool for climate policy and environmental solutions. In this regard, of course, we have had a positive side: the train connection up to China through Russia and Kazakhstan has opened new markets for food products, high-value products — our very new silk road, which works and which is reliable — and it must be speeded up to China, Kazakhstan and Russia in this world situation as well. In particular, representatives of the National Coalition Party and the Finns Party have mentioned this 0.7 road map. This government has been allowed to repair the pits that the previous government caused. And believe it or not, there has been something to fix, but now the direction is right. We are on the right track and we have had discussions with both parliamentary and governmental parties this week about how different tools will help us to move towards 0.7. This work will continue and this work will be done with pride. And I believe that, on the contrary, Finland's international offer at the UN confirms our application to the Security Council, so on the contrary, Finland is stronger internationally. Vaccine manufacturing: The industry has different prices for poor and rich countries, so there the manufacturers have made the right policies. But, as I said, we can come back to this in a different debate. Is there any way to take care of the embassies in neighbouring countries? You can't always do that. The Gulf region is a good example of this: why Qatar, Doha, is important, West Africa too, and French Africa is very important. Representative to Savola on the availability of labour in South Ostrobothnia, overall: Cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Delegations is very important and the need for our representations is served. And the virtual Suomi, Virtual Finland solution — it will be absolutely essential that the service paths are created virtually and that people, things, finance and businesses are mobilised. All in all, high value added products must be at the centre. Representative Niikko, Afghanistan has achieved results. Congressman Tynkkynen, humanitarian aid alone is not enough. It's a Band-Aid. Sustainable, system-level solutions are needed. That is why development cooperation is being carried out, and we want sustainable solutions, lasting solutions. The results really matter. Development cooperation is an investment and we do it on the ground. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u127	Thank you. - Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u128	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity. First of all, Mr Myllykoski and representatives of Savola, Niikko, al-Taeee were actually a little from the same angle all approached this crisis in Ukraine and wondered what Finland could do even more. And this, of course, is seen every day as whether there is such a possibility of mediation. Of course we encourage the parties, especially Russia, to fulfil the obligations of the Minsk Agreement. Of course, in this situation, we are trying to prevent the emergence of a new division and we want to highlight the principle that we respect Ukraine's independence and its territorial integrity, as is the territorial integrity of any other European country in these situations. It is also good to bring out those principles at this very beginning when this communication is taking place. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have recently participated in several discussions on the development of European security and at that NATO meeting in Riga, where the difficult situation in the Western Balkans was discussed, and now the OSCE meeting in Stockholm, where the 25th OSCE Presidency of Finland was also confirmed. And we have said that it is not the kind of thing that we wait for or stay here to polish champagne glasses, but we wrap our sleeves and start doing what we can already do to make that year 25 a success. And of course, although it has been a corona year, I myself had three physical meetings with Minister Lavrov during this year. We are also very active in maintaining relations with our own neighbours and key actors. Perhaps in this context it is also worth mentioning these links with Belarus. We are one of the few who have continued the dialogue with the Belarusian Foreign Minister, Mr Makei. The Belarusian opposition has also asked for a bridge building to be sought. Unfortunately, no solutions have been found yet. Then to Mr Hassi's question on vaccine production in developing countries: I would just like to mention that the two countries whose foreign ministers we have recently met, Senegal and Rwanda, are those who, according to my information, are planning to start their own vaccine production with the German company Biontech, which is, in Africa too, starting their own vaccine production on schedule in the middle of next year. Mr Kiljunen and others intervened in this network of representations, and thank you for your thanks. There has been an attempt to expand it. What does the future look like? Of course, we are trying to get these new representations now to be etabolized. They asked if they didn't know where they were going to start. We know that, but first we need the parliamentary budget and the permission that can be set up, and then we will be facing Asia in 22 years. Finally, I would have drawn attention to what Mr Biaudet said. You spoke of the spirit of Helsinki and the OSCE, and I would have raised the importance of these Helsinki groups as an importer of human rights after the OSCE meeting in 75 C.E. It has played an important role. And thank you for raising the questions of Barents and the Arctic. Now that Finland is President-in-Office of the Barents Council, we are, among other things, setting up a youth council which is very important in the region as an organisation that also supports human rights. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u129	This will put an end to the debate and to the proceedings and will be resumed at a later date in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u130	The general debate on section 24, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue. — The debate continues. Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo's gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u131	Presentation of Section 29 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture At this stage, a maximum of 2 hours will be reserved for the general discussion in the section, i.e. the period will end by 15.50 at the latest. — — — — Congressman Kiviranta will introduce you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u132	Mr President! I now present the increase of just under EUR 10 million proposed by the Committee on Finance, as chairman of the Section for Education and Science, to the budget of approximately EUR 7400 million in the administrative sector of OKM. In addition, the OKM section includes three proposals for statements. For the rest, the committee has shown only the usual criticism. Mr President! Once the national literacy strategy has been completed in 2030, it is important to launch a permanent national literacy programme with an additional EUR 1.5 million in implementation. In addition, a total of EUR 390000 shall be allocated: The Lukemo portal of the Children’s Book Institute and EUR 300000 A reading gift for a child. The committee will also add EUR 100000 to equal opportunities training for early childhood education professionals, as well as EUR 100000 to body emotional education. In order to reduce the loneliness of children and young people, EUR 250,000 will be added. This appropriation is intended to cover the School to Belong programme, which is referred to as the School to Belong programme, to the Education Institute of the University of Turku. The committee also directs EUR 50000 more to the Federation of Freethinkers and EUR 150,000 to the security of the Jewish parish in Helsinki. The development of the monastery of the St. Trinity in Lintula is also directed to that amount of EUR 50,000. EUR 1.4 million will be added to the state grants of the organisations. More money is provided by women's organisations and household advisory organisations such as the Centre of Agricultural and Household Women, the Marttaliitto and Finlands svenska Marthaförbund. The fund is also available from the Association of Crafts and Designs Taito ry, the Federation of Karelia, the Critical University of Finland, the Finnish Schools and the Remote School of Traveller and Nomadskolan maintained by the People's Education Society. The Centre for Domestic Languages receives an additional EUR 100000, the National Audiovisual Institute EUR 120000 and the Museum of Natural Sciences EUR 600000. An amount of EUR 120000 is proposed to prepare the World Heritage List presentation of Alvar Aalto's architecture. The committee welcomes the fact that the fall in gambling revenues will be compensated for and that the status of beneficiaries will remain at the level of the current year also next year. As far as the social security of artists is concerned, the committee believes that it is justified to assess whether the artist grants could be transferred to the artist's salary. For the joint e-library project launched in autumn 2022, a year ago, the committee directed EUR 1 million and now proposes another million. Artists are Finland's largest cultural education programme, which offers 1–2 visits to high-quality art for all 8-graders and their teachers in Finland during the academic year. The committee will increase the amount of EUR 1350000 for the continuation of the Art Testers activities. The committee also considers it important to ensure that the future funding of the exhibition fee model is secured. The acquisition of Finnish contemporary artists’ works of art will be increased by EUR 100,000. Money is also directed to the following items, which represent the original nature of the Christmas gift money of the Parliament: the 20th anniversary exhibition of the Upper Nature Kapinetti, the restoration of the War Compensation Vessel Vega in Pietarsaari, the 50th anniversary celebration of Samuel Polonaise in Turku, the 50th anniversary of the Worker's Music Event, Kemijoki Cultural Support Association for the production of Karvalaksi opera, the renovation of observation houses, the wooden bridges of the Autioranta on Haapajärvi, the rehabilitation of the buildings of Nuutajärvi Lasikylä, the development of the Finnish Jazz Federation tour model, the development of gender equality in the audiovisual sector, the development of the Sarka Agricultural Museum in Loimaa, the rehabilitation of the Ruuttalan peasant museum in Kuopio, the development of an exhibition management system for Soda and Peace Centre for Memory, the organisation of archives for the South Ostrobothnia Lottaperinne ry and the development of the Sauvon Viirvi. Can I have a few more minutes, a couple more? [Laughter] The committee adds EUR 200,000 to the adoption of a sports lifestyle for young people who otherwise do not move or move very little. In order to promote youth work and work against the exclusion of young people, the committee increased by EUR 160000. EUR 200,000 was added to the development of business village activities and EUR 100000 to promote entrepreneurship for young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u133	Thank you. — And then Minister Andersson, who is also in charge of Minister Kurvis, so 10 minutes is a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u134	Mr President! Our government aims to increase the level of competence of society as a whole and to strengthen equality in education and training. Research evidence shows that learning threatens to separate in Finland, and it is known that throughout the 2010s this segregation process has also taken place. Some children and young people are doing well, but the proportion of those who are not doing well is increasing. The quality and equality of education must therefore be strongly invested. Otherwise, there will be an increasing differentiation of learning outcomes. During this term of government, resources will be allocated to education and training at all levels. Raising the skills of society as a whole is a demanding objective, and one of the prerequisites for this is that we succeed in strengthening support for children and young people. An important part of our government's work on quality and equality in education is the Justice Learn Programme of more than EUR 300 million to strengthen early childhood education and basic education. A total of EUR 155 million will be allocated to the Right to Learn programme in next year's budget. Through this programme, we are implementing, among other things, a two-year pilot project for pre-school education and we are developing a model of three-tier support. In addition, we will launch a pilot for the development of pre- and initial education. In the field of basic education, the ‘Justice to learn’ programme enables, among other things, work to prevent the segregation of learning outcomes. We will strengthen the support for learning and the quality of education and support flexible and individual transitions in early years. According to the Government Programme, the structure of three-tier support for early childhood education will be created from August next year. Thus, the right of every child to receive support for his or her individual development, well-being and learning is governed by law, which is a significant and long-awaited improvement to the current state. EUR 15 million will be spent on implementing the three-tier support that will come into effect next year from 2022. In practice, in today's society, you cannot do without a secondary degree, and in order to ensure that every young person is able to do so, support must be strengthened at all levels. During our term of government, support for children and young people will be strengthened both in basic education and in secondary education. Binding dimensions have been created for student and student care services, for which 20 million have been earmarked for the year 2022 and 29 million for the year 2023. The measurements will enter into force gradually so that, in the case of curators, the dimensioning will take effect in January next year and in the case of psychologists in August 2023. The extension of compulsory education came into force this autumn, and next August the next age group will be included in the reform. The importance of this historic reform is that every young person is now being supported to move to the second stage and complete a secondary degree, and on the basis of the figures and information we have already received on the implementation of the compulsory education reform, it seems that this has indeed been the case and that this reform has also begun to come into force in the desired way. In the future, a compulsory youth is not left alone, but is responsible for his or her support and finding a place to study, either by the educational institution or by the municipality. The reform of compulsory education is one of the largest gender equality and employment measures of this government. The additional budget for the extension of compulsory education in the draft budget for 22 years totals EUR 65 million, of which EUR 29 million for upper secondary education and EUR 14.4 million for vocational education and training. In next year's budget, EUR 70 million has been earmarked for vocational education and training to strengthen the resources for teaching and guidance. The major cuts in education during the last government period hit vocational education very badly and there has been an urgent need to strengthen education. Over the period 19-22, the financing of vocational education and training has been increased by a total of EUR 250 million. This additional funding can be used to recruit new teachers and instructors, to increase the number of lessons for current hourly teachers and to recruit teaching support staff. We will set aside EUR 43 million for the training of new local carers next year in order to meet the carer’s size, and in this respect too, this sum, which is intended specifically to increase the volume of local carers’ training, has been over EUR 130 million. We also want to support the training and employment of young people through apprenticeships. We will launch a three-year experiment in which we target a total of EUR 15 million, or EUR 5 million per year, for education and training allowances for under 20-year-olds without a secondary degree from next year. The aim of this experiment is to see whether this would be a means of increasing the number of under 20-year-olds in apprenticeship training and thus increasing the attractiveness of apprenticeship training in the eyes of employers. Today, no person can reach retirement age without updating their skills. Skills to acquire new skills through a career must be able to guarantee everyone, and special attention must be paid to the fact that updating skills is not just a privilege for already skilled people. Mr President! The importance of education for well-being, employment and equality is enormous, and the strengthening of the employment rate also requires a strong investment in education and training in the coming years. Apart from that, as my colleague, Mr Kurvinen, unfortunately, has prevented the illness, I will also very briefly present Mr Kurvise's side of this section of OKM. Mr President! Next year, the funding granted by Parliament will increase the competence of Finns and strengthen research. The funding of arts and culture supports creative work and production and equal access to them. Funding for sports and young people promotes a physical lifestyle, well-being and health. We increase the income limits of student support by one quarter. As regards the fall in gambling activity, the state will be forced to support the beneficiaries of Veikkaus in their important work. As far as the coming years are concerned, we are all still facing difficult reflections. Last week, the parliamentary working group on research, development and innovation proposed that a financing law be established to increase R & D funding and that a plan for R & D funding be drawn up that is longer than the legal spending limits period. On behalf of Mr Kurvise, I would also like to thank the parliamentary parties for their commitment to improving the funding of science and research. Together, we must also involve the whole of Finland, its vast field of higher education and research, and companies from small to large. In its report, the Committee on Finance considered it important to increase the proportion of people with higher education and to ensure the regional adequacy of higher education. Some of these needs will also be addressed through the soon-to-be start-up increases in higher education institutions in the 22 budget. Regional labour needs will be supported by soon-to-end changes in education and training responsibilities. The Committee on Finance has increased approximately EUR 4.5 million in the promotion of art and culture, allowing for the continuation of a joint e-library project between municipalities, the Literary Gift for the Child and the Art Testers activities. In addition, funding has been allocated to the organisation of artistic and cultural events, among other things. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for these additions, which are very important for cultural and artistic operators. The State budget for next year will provide good tools to promote the goals that Parliament has set together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u135	Thank you. — Before we go to the debate, I will correct my recent announcement, i.e. at 2:50 p.m. the time is now set aside for this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u136	Thank you, Minister, for this presentation. Thank you, too, to the President-in-Office. I wish the Ministers for Education and Culture, both of them very much a merry Christmas on behalf of the whole Committee on Education and Culture! But to the point. The extension of compulsory education came into force this year, and this is, after all, compulsory education in accordance with the Constitution. According to the Constitution, such training must be free of charge. But now some of the students pay, some of them don't. Have you considered, at the Ministry of Education and Culture, that this would be corrected because it has also become quite evidence that it does not make sense? All in all, this money for compulsory education has now received some feedback during the autumn that it is not enough. And especially high school education is in trouble. Vocational education is something to be overcome, but there are difficulties in upper secondary school education — which already has the funding gap of 100 million. Have you considered that you would bring an amendment to it by means of an amending budget? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u137	Congressman Eloranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u138	Mr President! Strengthening basic skills is absolutely essential to achieving our skills goals, and yet, for example, the share of weak readers in the Pisa results has doubled to 14% in the 21st century. Two years ago, with the Christmas gift money, the Committee on Finance launched a literacy strategy and a year ago, as a follow-up to a permanent literacy programme. However, on the basis of the budget, there is still no money for literacy, but this year the Committee on Budgets is also proposing an unallocated budget of EUR 1.8 million. I would therefore like to make a request to Mr Andersson that reading skills should be provided with permanent funding for the framework in the future, and I would ask him whether this would be possible. And then say hello to Minister Kurvise: The popularity of audiobooks and e-books has grown, and they are also quoted from libraries, but they are not paid the author the quote fee. The Committee on Finance makes a statement on the extension of the quotation fee to e-books and e-voices, and this would require support for a minor legislative amendment, a few words to be added to the text of the law. I hope the government will bring this amendment of the law to Parliament soon — indeed, to Minister Kurvise.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u139	Congressman Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u140	Mr President! The reform of compulsory education has now begun and has already started to receive feedback. One of the feedback is that students are still not in an equal position because most of the learning materials have gone digital, but then there are students whose parents are more wealthy and who then have the opportunity to buy books for their own young people, which means that some have books paid for by their parents in any case, and then the other part will be satisfied with these digital learning materials. My second question concerns this objective of the Government Programme to achieve 50% of young people with higher education in 2030. Now, if we look at statistics, the statistics show that 40% of men are currently educated and 60% of women, i.e. 20%. I would like to ask: how will you take into account in the future the fact that it is the boys who need that support in order to strike a balance between these universities?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u141	Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u142	Mr President! Education is not the privilege of the elite. It is the right of all. There is no more important goal for a good life than opening up the doors to education and communication to all those who want it and need it. Business also needs experts. Thank you to the government for this. A change in the direction of education policy has now been implemented and 10,000 starting places have been added to higher education institutions around Finland. The centralisation of higher education institutions has moved towards a training policy that meets the needs of the business community. However, there are still these needs, and an example of them is found in my own province. We still need 60 places to start training electrical engineers. I would like to warmly thank you for the good contributions that have been made. We received, among other things, EUR 300000 for the development of entrepreneurship education in Kanta-Häme. By increasing entrepreneurship education and strengthening vocational training, we can respond to a chronic shortage of skills. Mr Andersson,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u143	Congressman Koponen, Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u144	Mr President! We all know in this Chamber that the past couple of years have been particularly challenging for our children and young people. The education and early childhood education staff have done a huge job for our children by taking their own skills and working hours to the limit so that no child can go unnoticed. It is therefore extremely important that government action strengthens the well-being of children and young people and prevents the accumulation of problems. I would like to thank the government for investing in the well-being of children and young people, among other things, by regulating the measurement of student care from next year on. EUR 29 million is an important contribution to increasing the number of psychologists and curators in schools. The early years of a child are also of enormous importance for development. If the child does not then receive the support he needs, the consequences may be challenging. Now the government also invests in early years by clarifying the child’s right to receive the necessary support in early childhood education. In these words, it is good to wish all Finnish children and adults who teach them and care for them a merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u145	Thank you. — Mr Honkasalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u146	Mr President! These increases in the Committee on Finance are very welcome and it was a great thing that the Committee on Finance did not have to compensate for the fall in gambling revenues, but the government itself did. Of course, this problem is still ahead of us in the future and decisions have not yet been taken. And this applies, for example, to the whole field of culture and art, but also to the funding of science and research. Much has recently been said about the mental health crisis, the mental health crisis of children and young people. It is very good that the government has substantially increased funding for education and specifically increased funding in such a way that more of these safe adults would be present at school. But we need an even deeper analysis of why our children and young people seem to be feeling so badly at the moment. It may not always be just a resource increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u147	Thank you. — Representative Asell, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u148	Mr President! Our population is ageing and the dependency ratio is becoming less favourable. We need more and more working people to keep this society alive. It would also be useful for us to have healthy citizens to deal with these everyday tasks and tasks. Unfortunately, the recently published Move measurements of schoolchildren give a rather harsh description of the future as to how well our future creators, children and young people, can and do. According to new measurements, as many as 40 percent of students in the fifth and eighth classes may already have difficulty coping in everyday life due to poor physical condition. Physical fitness is often also linked to mental well-being, and when we know that a third of sick pensions are due to mental health reasons, and when we also know the current situation regarding the mental well-being of young people, we have real challenges in our hands. The importance of physical activity should be raised more prominently, we talk about the state of the nation as a whole and its ability to perform in all sectors. It is good that the government also has action to increase physical activity. Will we be able to answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u149	Thank you. — Mr Koponen Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u150	Mr President! Yes, money is not the answer to everything. The problems and the ability to cope with the minds of children and young people are very much on the surface here in Parliament, and that is a good thing. The problem has already grown enormous both economically and humanly. When listening to the field, it becomes clear how, for example, the demands of schools for self - control seem to be too hard for many, just like the failure of inclusion. When even secondary students are unable to achieve the required self - control, how do the younger ones? Another problem is the reform of the education system, which has contributed to increasing the pressure on the lives of children and young people. One example is the reform of the certificate selection for upper secondary school students, which has led to a significant increase in the importance of the matriculation examination in applying to higher education institutions. Minister Andersson, will these reforms be critically assessed and solutions sought? And what will be done to cope with teachers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u151	Thank you. — Mr Vikman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u152	Mr President! There's a contradiction between what the government says and what they do. The government is talking about the reparation of education, even though it is actually a matter of fixed-term project funds. The Government talks about the importance of research, development and innovation, but is actually planning cuts. [Veronika Honkasalo’s interlude] The project rally for education and education continues. By the end of its term, the Government will cut EUR 100 million from science and research.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u153	Congressman Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u154	Mr President! We are all well aware of the challenging times in both the educational and educational fields during the last two years of pandemics, from early education to higher education. We know the challenges of the burden and ability of teaching staff, but also the problems of learning shortages, well-being and mental health for children and young people. Even though I really thank you very much for the many actions that have been taken under your leadership, Mr Andersson, I would still like to ask: how are we going to go over this swamp? What would your message be for children, young people, families and school staff who are going out for Christmas? Will next year's budget take care of them enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u155	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u156	Mr President! The school health survey, the report by teachers, the gangbanging of young people — everyone tells of the increase in nausea among young people. Thank you, too, for the student care and student care measures that will respond to this little. The Finnish model of hobbies is also part of the answer. Resources are also needed for youth work and youth work to be brought to schools, especially when there are no fillers for school psychologists and no helpers for adults on the low threshold. Mr President! The cultural sector has been the main sufferer of the whole corona crisis. The Government Programme outlines compensation for the reduction in the funding of Veikkaus and the objectives for the growth of cultural funding in general. These objectives must be adhered to. Mr Eloranta's speech on these quotations was also warmly supported. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u157	Congressman Semi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u158	Mr President! The Me Foundation estimates that more than 60,000 young people are excluded in Finland. Youth unemployment is more than 17%, which is a significant figure on a global scale. The origins of young people's exclusion are often born even during early childhood education, decreasing after the age of young people. Discontinuation of secondary education is a feature of what is happening — secondary education is no longer being carried out — and difficulties are thus increasing. It is good that money has now been invested in early childhood education, basic education, secondary education and the expansion of compulsory education, which is a very good thing. Thank you, Minister, for this. But then the follow-up work: How to follow this then so that we can get to grips and go to help
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u159	Congressman Gustafsson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u160	Mr President! When you look at things in a slightly longer perspective, you have to be happy, almost happy, that the government has been able to carry out these major reforms in its early stages, which relate to early childhood education payments, the extension of compulsory education, the increase in starting places for universities, the restoration of the number of teachers in vocational education and so on. But I have a big worry. Today — those who could read Helsingin Sanomat — there were many pages about the mental ill health of children and young people. In this too, the Government has now made good decisions on strengthening student care. But I would say that we must now put our wise heads together, what we can do in the short and longer term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u161	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u162	Mr President! In Finland, we continue to lose resources both young people and the state. Forced Swedish is held by claws, even though it means huge spending on the state and unnecessary trouble for many young people. Instead of encouraging young people to choose the most necessary language for themselves, a Swedish textbook will be forced into their hands. As a result, unnecessary obstacles are thrown into many schools, whose effects may extend far away. The early introduction of such traps for many of them in school work does not seem to be an attractive option. The mere discharge of compulsory education can also seem like a rumble. Of course, no one is harmed by language skills, but it is if its forced feeding leads to the collapse of the motivation to study. Minister Andersson, why are you starting a study on the re-engagement of the Force Swedes into yo-scripts?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u163	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u164	Mr President! Thank you to the President-in-Office, the Minister for the floor. The Government's research and education policy objectives are excellent, but not all actions are. Special concern is science and research. By the end of this period, this government will cut EUR 100 million from science. The threat already banishes experts from Finland, expels investments from Finland. It was a special wish when the Minister for Science came to the government that something excellent should happen now. There's going to be surgery. I believe that Mr Kurvinen has done his best, but for some reason he has not received any support from the government. Fortunately, there was a parliamentary working group which jointly agreed to increase the effort for research to 4% in such a way that it would be made within the framework of EUR 200 million per year. This is the same proposal, which is actually in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party. You could introduce it, Minister. So now I ask why the government itself did not take these measures when it is worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u166	Congressman Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u167	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Andersson and Mr Kurvise for their important work on education and education and thank you to the Committee on Finance for their contributions to such training as Youth Entrepreneurship and the expansion of Business Village activities. There is currently a shortage of skilled workers in Finland as a whole, and it is important that apprenticeship training is developed as one of the paths to the profession, to change the sector and to work. Apprenticeship is one important, flexible learning path in the Finnish education system. Yesterday, the Ministry of Education and Culture announced that it would increase the education allowance for three years in apprenticeship training for young people. This is a very important decision. Now companies have the opportunity to make considerably more money to employ the young person who learns best by doing it. Practical factors, drivers find a natural way to work and learn alongside the master and graduate to the profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u168	Thank you. — Representative Hyrkko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u169	Mr President! Indeed, the parliamentary RD working group completed its work on Monday and found, you can even say, a historic agreement to increase funding for research and innovation, and this week the technology industry responded and reported on the commitment of 57 companies to invest EUR 10 billion in RD. I look forward with interest and enthusiasm to the parallels of other sectors too, because together, of course, we must achieve this goal. In order to achieve the objectives of research, we must also be able to take care of skills and the availability of skilled labour and the quality of education and research. Care should be taken not to dig a hole with one hand and then try to fill it with the other. This is, of course, not only about funding science and education, but also about the integration of international experts, for example, people's ability to work in general. As far as the accessibility of higher education is concerned, the young people in Uusimaa also expect the Minister's attention and decisions that young people do not need to go that far to train, but that there are enough places to start.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u170	Thank you. — Mr Salmonikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u171	Mr President! At the Education and Science section, we have already stated on the current year's budget that once the literacy strategy has been completed, it is important to have a permanent national literacy programme in place. We believe it is essential that the permanent resources required for the implementation of the literacy programme are taken into account in the financial framework. We now added EUR 1.5 million and EUR 300000 to the implementation of the literacy programme. To continue the "read gift for the child" program. It is also important for economic growth and the well-being of citizens to reduce the so-called welfare debt and the learning deficit. Additional resources have already been allocated to dismantling these, but as the pandemic continues, their adequacy still needs to be assessed, in particular for the education and culture of children and young people. The committee stresses the long-term nature of research funding. Fortunately, next year's Academy of Finland's admissions will be in line with the level of the current year. In the Tki Group, we in Parliament stressed that the 4% of GDP target for increased RD funding was set.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u172	Thank you, time! — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u173	Mr President! Libraries are the cornerstones of Finnish democracy. I am horribly pleased that, in the Section for Education and Science, we have once again received additional funding for this project on the digitisation of libraries. At the very essential level, there is the question of quote payments and their extension to e-book material. We were already prepared in the section to support this financially when it turned out that we cannot do it now, because it really requires a change in the law, and that is why we recorded a strong statement to the Minister in good health that soon this amendment of the law plus the necessary resource — not too large at all, but quite suitable on the contrary, so the Ministry will be happy to make this amendment of the law as required by the whole committee. In addition, we expect that the good,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u174	Congressman Wrist, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u175	Thank you, Mr President. The government has very good goals, but unfortunately you are proposing a lot of small fun solutions. The problems of children and young people, and also of teaching and early childhood education staff there in classrooms, schools and kindergartens are so great that these shreds and projects do not solve them. The measurements won't help when we don't have those resources. Student care and school health care are in crisis. So there are no professionals. You are also working on such an ideological Sitra project, which, among other things, redefines culture. Instead, you should have a completely new kind of programme and policy on families with children and education, focusing on the problems of their children and young people and helping families. Now you have taken this ideological line, you are extending compulsory education, you are dividing the shredding and the project. When are we gonna get that peace of mind in those schools?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u176	Thank you. — Mr Vestman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u177	Mr President! The income limits for student aid create artificial poverty. Two years ago, we took a legislative initiative to increase the income limits by 50% on a permanent basis. According to the study, this would increase both the income of students and employment and the net income of general government. In November, the government finally presented a proposal to increase the income limits, but only by 25% and only for a one-year period. During the parliamentary procedure, all experts, including Kela, were in favour of a permanent increase. The government parties objected. Minister Kurvinen justified an irrational solution in this Chamber: ‘We in the Ministry of Education and Culture are prepared to make a permanent conclusion if such an agreement arises. “ Minister, what agreement did Minister Kurvinen refer to? Did you object to a permanent increase in income limits?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u178	Thank you. — Mr Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u179	Mr President! The benefits of reading are indisputable. A great Christmas present for the children of Finland is that the Finance Committee decided to grant an additional EUR 1.5 million to the literacy programme. In particular, there is concern about the lack of reading of boys — rightly so. Both boys and girls need encouragement for reading. Many homes and schools around Finland do good work to promote reading. Just now, my third - grade son and I went to the library after the teacher asked me to get a desk book. Today, books are not only read but also listened to a lot. Many books are also available in e-book, i.e. electronic form. Quote compensation is of great importance to our country’s authors and translators. I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for its statement that e-books and e-books should soon be covered by the quote. I would like to ask the Minister: can you tell me what the situation looks like now? Any preparations? We'll get the e-books covered by the quote as soon as possible, won't we?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u180	Thank you. — In the meantime, let us take three minutes to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u181	Mr President! Thank you for many excellent questions and comments. I will start with Mr Tynkkysen's question as to why this study on the return of the compulsory Swedish examination to the matriculation examination has been launched, and the reason is actually that there is a record in the government programme stating, as it were, the government's will that this should be the case. But I personally do not think that any legislative action will be taken on this issue during this term of government, but it is all right that it should be clarified, so that everyone will have information about what it would mean, and if anyone ever wants to do so, what time should it be done? I personally do not support it in this situation because it was during the last term of the government that changes were made to increase the complexity of the matriculation examination, when five compulsory tests now have to be carried out. This is actually linked to this broader issue of the well-being and well-being of children and young people and also to the choice of evidence, which Mr Koponen raised here. When we make educational policy decisions and policies in this room and in this house, we are also forced to assess how it affects the pressure experienced by young people, the types of consequences that education policy choices will have for the well-being of children and young people. This is why we will also be organising this round table with universities next year in connection with this choice of certificates, where we will go through whether there is a need for any changes to this scoring tool and how the universities will deal with it, because they will ultimately decide on it. But even in this regard, when changes are made, we must remember that when young people start their studies in high school, they must have knowledge of the criteria for this admission to higher education institutions. In other words, we cannot just change these big student choices in different years diametrically in different directions, but here too we must proceed with caution and remember the legal security of young people and how these changes in the tasks then affect young people's learning choices. We do not only make temporary improvements in resources during this government period, but improve the funding of education at all levels of education during this government term by means of both permanent significant increases and then significant increases. How Sitra’s educational work projects relate to my field of activity or work was completely unclear in this debate. As far as compulsory education is concerned, Parliament has required a very wide range of monitoring by the government. We will be watching how this cost side is realised. Of course, we will also be monitoring how the objectives of compulsory education are being achieved and, in fact, this very comprehensive implementation plan has already been published.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u182	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u183	Mr President! It is actually music to the ears to hear it as such a different learner, how to invest now, what the government has made decisions. I consider this enhanced support to be a very good thing. It brings opportunities for us primates far more than one could possibly believe. At the same time, this three-year-old experiment in apprenticeship training for under 20-year-olds is a great thing. Of course, I myself would like to see even more opportunities to go to work through apprenticeship training directly from primary school. But one thing that is unresolved is how we make it possible to learn at work in apprenticeship training and in the use of an educational contract. SMEs, with 15 employees, have absolutely no resources, so now we should find a channel,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u184	Thank you. — Mr Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u185	Mr President! It has been a pleasure to be a member of this government from a school background. It has also been a pleasure to follow the Minister for Science and Culture's new approach to Finland's higher education policy. Under the leadership of the scientific and cultural ministers of this government, for example, 10,000 starting places have been added to higher education institutions and new educational responsibilities have been granted throughout Finland. However, there has been opposition to this decentralised and accessible training to promote the balanced development of regions, and the argument is that the level of education is reduced. I would like to ask the Minister for Education present: What would you say to these young people who are studying in university centres in the provinces? Do they receive less education than university universities? Is concern about the poor level of education pointless or justifiable?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u186	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u187	Mr President! I'll start with aphorism: "Don't ask me what you're paying for. Ask how much it costs to be uneducated.” That means strength for the Minister's important work. It's important to our future. In connection with raising the compulsory education age, several ministers promised that all expenses would be reimbursed to municipalities and education providers. However, on 2 December, a couple of weeks ago, the Ministry of Education and Culture has adopted an additional performance decision for the organisers of vocational education and training, which has provided a cold ride and an unfortunate disappointment to many of the trainers who had admitted students during this year in the belief that the expenses will be fully reimbursed. Now this supplementary performance decision sends the message that it will not be replaced and there is no appeal against it. There is a written question inside, and I ask: How will this matter be resolved? Is that a promise?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u188	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u189	Mr President! I'm going back to where this conversation started. The learning results have deteriorated in terms of mathematics. We have just heard that they have weakened for twenty years in a row. If this development continues — or is not a development, but a collapse — then Finland will no longer be seen as a model country for learning. It may be that we go to Estonia, for example, to look at the model country of learning. I am not saying that it is the fault of this government, and I am sure it is not the fault of the last one, but I ask what should be done here. When asked what to do, teachers have brought up, for example, the restoration of peace in schools, the prohibition of cell phones in classes, a better opportunity for teachers to focus on teaching instead of all kinds of project humma, and also on the fact that inquisition has not been successful if it has not been sufficiently resourced. So I ask the Minister for Education: are you prepared to listen to the teachers' message, and are you going to do something about this mathematics?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u190	Thank you. — Mr Ronkainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u191	Mr President! The status of foreign languages is reflected in a number of policy areas. In the fields of education, trade and culture, there is talk of internationalisation, and immigration in particular seems to be high in the government's priorities. However, I would like to draw attention to the position of the Finnish language. The Finnish level of competence in children, together with mathematics, has narrowed, which is explained by Pisa as well as other studies. In the past, Finland has been a model country for education and a high level of competence has been central to success. The Finnish language has played a key role in this. Minister, I would like to ask you how you intend to defend and promote the position of the Finnish language, and is there funding in the budget for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u192	Thank you. — Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u193	Mr President! Today, Minister, digital exclusion is a real problem. More and more Finns feel unable to use different types of smartphones and smart devices. At the same time, our services move faster and faster towards smart devices. We must now take this catch, make sure that older people and others who may be struggling with this issue are able to pay their bills over the Internet, be able to do business, identify themselves online and do their own business. Today, libraries could act as places where this type of teaching could be carried forward. Have you considered this, and how could the library network be used to reduce digital exclusion in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u194	Thank you. — Representative Park, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u195	Mr President! The level of knowledge is, of course, critical and, as has been said, central to the knowledge of mathematical subjects and sciences. In a number of Western European countries, the situation was raised 20 years ago that the popularity of these subjects had fallen and, for example, it was difficult to find students in universities. Since then, the phenomenon has landed in Finland, although at the turn of the millennium there was no sign of it. I think that this cannot be just a question of budgeting — Estonia, for example, has passed us by in the Pisa results — but it is also a matter of the spirit world. Have you actually thought about this at the Ministry? Science and technology, of course, provide answers to many of the great challenges of time, and there is a lot of interest in it, but in many ways hard sciences are contrary to the spirit of time, because they take time, work is difficult, laboratory equipment can break down, it is objective and analytical. It does not immediately get such visibility, while social media emphasizes this kind of immediacy
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u196	Thank you. — Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u197	Mr President! It is important that the beneficiaries of Veikkaus received their funding for next year, but after that the situation will be completely transparent. There will be little increase in the profits of the bet, perhaps a little from the new business that we have approved, but it will be around the same level in the future. It would be important to have a permanent solution as quickly as possible so that beneficiaries, including many organisations, can plan for their future. I would just like to ask the Minister: what is the assessment of when such a permanent solution will be achieved to this considerable social problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u198	Thank you. — Congressman Koponen, Noora, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u199	Mr President! Students have long been at a disadvantage in our society in terms of enabling studies and combining work. Needless to say, the student is often left in a weak financial situation because our system does not support combining work and studies. For the above reasons, the increase in the income limits of student aid has been long awaited. The budget proposes to increase the income limits for student support for next year, so that the reconciliation of work and studies is a way for students to secure their livelihoods and, on the other hand, to gain work experience. I think it is important to reduce the restrictions and cuttings on students and, on the contrary, to strengthen the support they receive for their studies and well-being, especially after this hard year of interest. There will be a better chance of this, as an increase in income limits will, according to estimates, pay itself back through increased tax revenues. We also know that by increasing the number of higher education places, we could respond to the needs of the labour-intensive sectors. I ask the Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u200	Thank you. — Mr Vikman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u201	Mr President! Monday, 13 December. The report of the Parliamentary Task Force was published. It contains elements supported by the Coalition Party: a separate RD Finance Act, a broad and permanent R & D tax incentive, a statutory long-term R & D funding plan. Now the question is, is the government going to make a move? Have we started preparing for the R & D tax incentive yet? What timetable does the Minister intend to bring in a proposal for a R & D funding law?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u202	Thank you. - Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u203	Mr President! The significance of culture is indisputable. Cultural operators have been supported over the corona crisis by distributing state aid. However, the most important thing is how we get them a permanent structure of livelihood. Work must be able to get along, and that is where we still have work to do. Thank you for the state participation reform of performing arts. It made an historic addition, among other things, to the state funding of performing arts. It was definitely the right way. Thank you, too, for the show fee model. It will improve the livelihood of the artists, and I believe that this is also a major reform of the system level, a new form of livelihood, which will hopefully only grow in the years to come. The exhibition fee is compensation for the work done by artists, for example: design, hanging, artist meetings. We all know that these are the work that has been done for free at the moment. How the Government Wills
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u204	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u205	Mr President! Defenders of large-scale immigration have argued that the Finnish school system integrates children of immigrant origin into our society. However, the solution has turned into a problem. We already have comprehensive schools where the Finnish language is hardly heard. The immigrant population is congregating in certain areas, which means that foreign-language pupils make up the majority of schools in the region. You don't learn Finland at home, and you don't learn it at school either. In Turku Varissuo primary school, for example, nearly 90 per cent of the mother tongue is something other than Finnish or Swedish. Most of them were born in Finland. The situation is horrendous in society, but also in terms of the remaining 10%. Soon we will have schools where even 10% do not speak Finnish. It's a terrible prospect. Minister, how do you intervene in the segregation of schools?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u206	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u207	Mr President! Mr Tynkkynen must be told that learning Finnish is indeed significant. Even if the Finnish is not ready, it is worth investing in learning it. The committee also took the view that the resources for integration training and Finnish language teaching should be increased and increased. I would also like to thank the section for our long and multi-generation list, which also took some time on Mr Kiviranta. From there, in particular. Ensuring the continuation of the activities of the Natural History Museum and the increase of EUR 1.5 million in the literacy programme, which has already been mentioned here, was very welcome. The investment nature of education and training funding should also be better understood and discussed closely with the Ministry of Finance. The Committee on Finance agreed that child budgeting should be better monitored,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u208	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u209	Mr President! As a mother of three, I am very concerned about the debt burden that the government is putting on our children. It is important that we invest in education in a sustainable way. When you are a skilled politician, Mr Andersson, how have you gone about making the main investments in early childhood education, basic education, vocational education and training stop like a wall at the end of next year? Less debt is taken into account in the alternative budget of the Coalition Party, but these investments will be consolidated. You've recently said that you're going to standardise this short money. How are you going to do that? That would be good to hear. Mr Viitanen, a politician whom I very much appreciate, you spoke quite rightly about libraries. They're our pride. But we also need to make sure that writers and translators get paid. That is why we are very much in favour of raising those allowances to the Nordic level and, Mr President, also ensuring that the e-books, namely that this is technologically independent, also means that the authors receive their salaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u210	Congressman Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u211	Mr President! Minister Kurvisen and the predecessors of the reign and the entire government have indeed changed direction in Finnish higher education policy. We have increased 10,000 starting places in higher education institutions and granted new educational responsibilities all over Finland. A concrete example of a change of direction is also the decision a couple of weeks ago, when additional funding of three million was announced to university centres, and I also thank you for this in relation to Seinäjoki. So the government promotes education in an up-and-coming way. It is the great opportunity and benefit of young people seeking to study, the whole of Finland's vitality and the labour force that requires a skilled workforce throughout the country. I'd like to ask if there's anything like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u212	Thank you. — Mr Honkasalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u213	Mr President! For many years, we have heard the spin-off of the Assembly that the budget for education is limited to a fixed period, although this is certainly not the case. I do not quite understand the logic in that, if you criticise the fact that they are fixed-term, then surely you are committed to maintaining or increasing the level of funding for education, if you yourself are perhaps in government responsibility. Similarly, constant criticism that basic funding for science is being cut, even if no such decisions are taken. I also wonder about the criticism of the coalition for raising income limits, while at the same time in your own alternative budget you propose that housing allowance for university students be cut. In fact, we have the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u216	I will give you two more answers. Congressman Eloranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u217	Mr President! Raising the level of competence is absolutely essential for the future of Finland as a whole. Very many, about fifteen, as many as twenty percent of children, young people, and adults experience various learning difficulties. These include reading difficulties and neuropsychological problems, ADHD, ADD and so on. However, we have a lot of problems with early identification of learning difficulties. Too often, learning difficulties are not identified and, at the same time, timely and effective support is not available. Of course, this affects individual learning and, on a large scale, our level of competence even at national level. Both the Committee on Education and the Committee on Finance have identified the need for a national action programme to identify and support learning difficulties. Can we get this going next year? I would like to put a question to Minister Kurviselle regarding the social security of artists. Could we start an experiment on artist pay so that an artist grant with a large number of problems affecting income can be transferred to artist pay? This is one of the things we attached to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u218	Thank you. - And again, Mr Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u219	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to make the floor at the end. I think there have been some very good questions here, and it is these e-book quote fees that I myself would be encouraging them to be taken forward. And I would like to remind you that in the Committee on Education we have just made this report on education policy and there are more than ten different statements there, and I hope that they will be taken very seriously, even if they do come to us in the Committee on Education and Rural Development, even though we know how they are going to go now, and I hope that the action plan and the implementation plan for the report on education policy and education policy will certainly be carried out extensively with that field of education and education as well. I would like to draw attention to the basic skills, including the learning of different learners, which Mrs Eloranta has highlighted here with merit, and then I would also like to draw attention to these mental health problems for children and young people. Yes, I would be grateful if the Ministry of Education and Culture would begin together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u220	Thank you. - And Minister, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u221	Mr President! Once again, excellent and very wide-ranging questions too, but I thought that I would start with the most essential, which was actually Mr Satos' question here: what should be done if we look at this long-term trend in Finland. The first thing I would like to raise is that we should be able to commit all the parties that are represented in this house to the fact that this financial development in education will be a plus sign in Finland in the future. That is what education professionals, above all, hope to be confident that the level of resources will improve — even if we cannot commit to a specific number — but that it will be a better direction. At the beginning of this autumn, the OECD published data on the development of educational resources in various OECD countries, and Finland was one of the few in which they had declined from 2012 to 2018. In other words, less money per pupil was spent in 2018 than in 2012. Putting the education support system in order is extremely important. We are currently engaged in expert work at the Ministry on how this system should be reformed, both legislatively and financially. Literacy has been mentioned in many speeches. It is reflected in all the study results. It is precisely the development of Finnish language skills, investing in the fact that we promote literacy from early childhood education. And then also the intervention in this separation process, which Mr Tynkkynen has raised here, namely that we can support our foreign-language learners better in this country and that measures are also being taken at municipal level to prevent segregation between the different parts of the city and, consequently, the segregation that is evident on the school side. The most effective thing is that urban planning, rental housing production ensure that there are no separate areas for the poor and rich, but when the situation is already in place, education policy, for example, can seek to tackle segregation by changing the structures and boundaries of the student-taking area, as well as to tackle segregation in the area of funding for equality, and, for example, by looking at where schools offer weighted education, can also seek to increase the attractiveness of suburban schools to more pupils. Many other good speeches have been made here, and it is not possible to respond to them in this time frame, but I thought it might be good to decide on this big picture at the end of the day. And at the end of the debate, I would also like to wish everyone a very happy Christmas. I will, of course, remain here to follow the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u222	Thank you. — And then we go to the list of speakers. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u223	Mr President! Education and education are the cornerstone of the success and well-being of our nation. Finland became a welfare state through an equal education system. The creators of comprehensive school understood that a country as small as this cannot afford to sub-train or lose any of its citizens. Equally important reform was to extend compulsory education to adulthood. The value of education is everything in the future. According to our education policy report, in the future less than 70% of new jobs will require higher education skills. Our goal is that at least 50% of 25-34-year-olds have a high level of education. Sitra estimates that the target could be even higher. At the same time, it should be remembered that we also need practical practitioners and experts. We must not forget everyday excellence, builders, plumbers and women, local nurses, the development of professional skills and training. What is essential is that everyone discovers their strengths and their place in society. Mr President! Mr Kurvinen, Minister of Science and Culture, announced yesterday that he would increase the allowance for training in apprenticeship training for young people. The change concerns persons under 20 years of age who do not have a degree in upper secondary school or vocational education. This is a very important decision. There is currently a shortage of skilled workers in Finland. Now companies have the opportunity to make considerably more money to employ a young apprentice who learns best by doing it. It is important that apprenticeship training is developed as one of the paths to the profession, to change the sector and to work. I would like this three-year experiment to have positive experiences and to be made permanent. Mr President! In previous years, higher education has been strongly centralised. Higher education is now being distributed throughout Finland, it is the central line. Under the leadership of the central science and culture ministers, this government has increased 10,000 starting places for higher education institutions and granted new educational responsibilities to different parts of Finland, and more are on the way. Skills are needed throughout the country, young people need opportunities. Finland needs vitality from Mikkeli to Kokkola, from Kuusamo to Kittilä. Mr President! This period has seen an important extension of compulsory education. The first age group started there in August. Next autumn, preparatory education for a degree begins. As a whole, this reform is a great financial contribution to families. It's not gonna get caught in the barber's scissors or high school books. The drop-outs are picked up and carried along. This will prevent exclusion. The structural reforms undertaken by the government reflect the courage to invest in the future. Thank you very much, Mr Andersson, for being able to correct and implement the payment of material fees for folk high schools as part of compulsory education free of charge. Different learning paths are needed in post-coronation care, and support for learning needs to be strengthened at all levels of school. We need to learn both basic skills and future capabilities. Finland needs lifelong learning and continuous updating of skills. A new service centre for continuous learning and employment is now needed to compile foresight data and coordinate regional networks for the implementation of precision and conversion training. The Centre could also contribute to the development of future capacity and entrepreneurial capacity. A lot of people are thinking about becoming an entrepreneur. Continuous learning keeps the development of our business
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u224	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u225	Mr President! So long ago, it took me a while to get a representative. Myllykoski knew he was downtown, but what's the big deal? There's obviously a lot of downtown people in Satakunta, when this development of the school network and the university network has been at the heart of every one of us hundred MPs there, regardless of the party population. At first, I must say that it is wonderful that Minister Kurvinen made it a reality in such a way that it is a signal to the Finnish higher education system and university centres that there is a need for living space, because if someone makes it possible for business and education to be better linked together. If we in Satakunta were to say that we now had a master's degree course, just like the industry... When we have strong metal processing, the chemical industry, the very high food industry and the shipbuilding industry, but we do not have any diplomas to graduate, we are, as it were, an autonomist of universities, and that umbilical cord should be able to be severed in such a way that higher education institutions are forced to notice or understand that it must be in those localities where it is precisely the refreshed, strong business life for which we need experts, because then it is also the driving force and retention power when it comes to employment and employment in that region. Korona has disciplined citizens, children, young people and actors living under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture. It has been a pleasure to note that Minister Andersson has taken a firm stand in the government and that the whole government has been working together to take account of the fact that we should be prepared for the post-corona period, and not until we have realised that the milk has fallen several times, but that we have already been caught up in the moment when we have to worry about it. Of course, these recent news, especially those coming to pre-school, primary and secondary education, would have been very important without corona, because it is more and more challenging for young people to survive and survive their studies. A good point was made in his speech to the Minister that we should keep an eye on the situation when making decision on study policy, which is specifically related to those people. It must not be pendulum-like, but the situation is constantly being monitored and those decisions are being carefully and firmly taken so that political decision-making can be monitored and, as a result, any corrective action taken. Furthermore, what I have pointed out in that debate is that, this time, this apprenticeship is the best form of training that can lead to employment, but we must not lose sight of it, because many large companies recruit workers through apprenticeship training. They come from another job to a more attractive, large, larger employer, because there are better benefits than collective agreements and so on and higher earnings levels. So when they're already on their way to work, of course, they'll also be working early through apprenticeship training. It's good to know. To conclude, Mr President, at this stage, you too have a merry Christmas, and especially take a rest this weekend. Similarly, to all those who have participated in this debate and to the Minister, Christmas greetings come home!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u226	Thank you, too. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u227	Mr President! This administration is based on my background and on my value base, could you say, my favorite child, whom I am very happy to pay attention to? The tasks of the Ministry of Education and Culture are really directly linked to life. Both ministers have done a very good job. It is clear that times have been challenging. Actually, that description's a little lame, too. The past two years have been a terrible time in the field of education, education, culture and sports due to the pandemic. I am not talking about us decision-makers, but about those and the field of factors that have risen from day to day in the morning to do welfare. Good examples of where we have succeeded have emerged here during the debate. They are not motivated by party politics, but by facts. Of course, there is also room for the fact that many concerns are still acute and there will also be closed-mesh prospects in the future. President! In this context, I am not going to list the great acts of the government that undoubtedly exist, but I am going to focus on the world that needs to be taken into account in the future budget. We must believe that the national culture base will be fully charged with glory even during early childhood education and basic education. There's an opportunity, there's a present, there's a future. Even if we have such beautiful speeches or wonderful curricula, yet encountering a child and a young person, silent stopping, sufficient adult time, the question “what is the meaning of ”is still overwhelming ways to create a foundation of creation, human growth and health. It is therefore a question of whether we have the opportunity, whether we have the will, whether we have the skills to create time for teachers and all professionals to meet a small person. At the moment, there is not enough time. All of these are also related to the discussion of group size, number of hours, endurance, leadership, inclusion, basic skills, work peace and whether time goes to paper or to man. President! It is also true that every moment of a person’s life is valuable. The same story of growth continues in the second stage, in higher education and in the whole world of continuous learning. So we do not stop at basic education; we go on living. So there is no limit, so we can say that it no longer matters. Therefore, every stage of life, every major act that has been put into the budget of next year, such as increases in the number of start-ups of higher education institutions throughout the kingdom, university grants or curator and psychological measurements, quality and equality work in early childhood education and basic education, hiring teachers and instructors in vocational education, the Finnish model of hobby, literacy work, raising the income limits of student support, the adequacy of early childhood education teachers and whatever is vital. President! Education is not just education and education. It is also culture, science art, research and creativity. The exhibition fees allocated to next year's budget, the private copying credits and the funds supporting the creative sectors provide an opportunity for intellectual prosperity. Finally, we must do everything we can to ensure that this nation moves. It must be done without guilt, but with strong encouragement. With intelligent devices, I believe that each of us recognizes this: we have an unfortunate bomb of immobility, which is pulling our feet a little, and our hearts are not strengthened. That's not a good thing. President! The heart has to be strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u228	Thank you. — Mr Hopsu is absent, Mr Laukkanen is absent. — Representative Bracelet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u229	Mr President! The government talks about the employment rate and is concerned about the number of workers in the future. The solution is that the government dreams of large-scale work-related immigration. The ability of our own people to work is neglected because the government wants to be the most globally responsible ever, and in that world, the thinking of our own people first is harmful. The Government forgets that as a failing national economy, Finland cannot be a bigger solution to global problems. The strength of the Finnish people has been Bildung, civilization. The nation has evolved, the individual’s conscious, social, and heart civilization has grown, and the family’s table has been filled with self - deserved food. All of this is crumbling now. Education must, of course, be a living concept and no one disputes the need for global responsibility. However, a politically motivated learning body suggests that education is not the task of satisfying the skills requirements of working life, but of producing a culture of politically redefined global responsibility. Such ideas cause unnecessary and damaging confrontation. When put into practice, they cause exacerbating weariness. This is because global responsibility does not help to satisfy the hierarchy of individual needs. Civilization must always include striving for man’s responsibility and ability to care for himself and his fellowmen along with global responsibility. Each helper knows that the most important condition for helping others is his own well - being. This applies both to the individual and to society. So-called populist nationalist movements are accused of disdaining civilization and offering easy solutions to complex problems. In everyday life, however, people’s quality of life and happiness attach themselves to very simple and close things. As an objection, it can be said that politically redefined civilization wants to conceal the simple sorrows of the individual with guilt over complex, global phenomena, the solution of which the individual has little or no means at all. Education should no longer be a top-down education for the people, but that is what collective green left ideology seeks — right thinking is given from above, and mouths shut. Skill requirements in working life are the competence requirements of individuals. The individual and the family are the units of society that are primarily responsible for their daily livelihoods. Society’s task is to help individuals to achieve their best according to each individual’s abilities so that they can care for themselves and their neighbors. As a safety net, society is an insurance policy in which many share and pay for a few risks. Insurance cannot be something in which the majority of the interests paid by the minority are faltered. Mr President! If only one policy area should be chosen in Finland, which is most affected by focus on the well-being, quantity and competence of future Finland and its individuals, it would be the position of families with children and the path of education and training of children and young people from cradle to work. Unfortunately, this part of the population is getting worse and does not get the weight it needs in politics, despite the fine speeches. The 21st century is marked by an alarming fall in the skills of children and young people, the segregation of pupils and schools, the explosion of mental health problems and exclusion from working life. In the words of the youth worker in the field: ‘We gave young people air distress,and then came up with a high rate of I don't blame the kids for being anxious. Finding the meaning of life can be difficult.” This government and this budget are sowing money in every direction for a perfectly good reason and are loitering with the continuation of compulsory education. Instead of a new Sitra-driven political culture definition, we need a completely new family and education policy that focuses on helping young people find
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u230	Thank you. — Mr Vikman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u231	Mr President! The Coalition's alternative budget includes significant educational contributions. We invest in all levels of education from early childhood education to higher education. By prioritizing expenditure, we can make significant investments in education and knowledge. We will strengthen the quality of early childhood education and increase the participation rate towards the Nordic level. This also requires a significant increase in the number of early childhood education professionals. We will transform the EUR 80 million fixed-term quality and the strengthening of equality into a permanent financial instrument in our own option. We will reduce customer fees for early childhood education by EUR 30 million. We will increase the number of university-educated early childhood education teachers by EUR 15 million. We will establish a two-year pre-school experiment as a permanent operating model. Mr President! We in the assembly want teachers to be able to focus on their basic work. That is precisely why we are making permanent investments in the development of basic education rather than in the government's project rally. We would turn EUR 60 million of fixed-term equality funding into a permanent appropriation. We are reforming the three-step support so that students receive adequate and individual support. We are reforming student and student care so that everyone gets the support they need in time. We do not transfer school cranes and psychologists from schools to unexposed areas of well-being. We're defending high school. Currently, the funding of upper secondary school education does not provide sufficient guarantees for the organisation of high-quality education. We will correct the funding gap in upper secondary school education by EUR 50 million. We are launching a reform of the financing system for upper secondary school education in order to better reflect the real costs. In addition, the Group's option strengthens vocational education and training. The competence-based nature of vocational education and training must not be undermined on the pretext of extending compulsory education. The government's fixed-term project rally does not bring a lasting improvement in the situation of vocational education and training. Under the Coalition Party's option, we will make the funding of the EUR 70 million teacher and director resource for vocational education and training permanent. Mr President! We have still not been given an explanation as to why the 50% increase in the income limits proposed by the Coalition Party was not acceptable to the Government, but rather a fixed-term increase of only one year and a 25% increase. The proposal for a permanent 50% increase in the income limits of student support would have been positive for both students and central government finances. Now low income limits are a brake on diligence and incentive and cause artificial student poverty. Mr Government, why did you not agree with the proposal by the Assembly to increase the income limits briskly and permanently? In its own option, the Coalition Party would also increase funding for research, development and innovation by EUR 200 million. After all, the government could have strengthened its R & D funding in its budget for next year by prioritising expenditure. By the end of its term, the government is, according to its current plan, cutting the amount of permanent funding for science by more than EUR 100 million. For this, the assembly has had a better option to present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u232	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen is absent. Congressman Kalli is gone. Congressman Kiuru, Pauli gone. Congressman al-Taee gone. — — — — Congressman Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u233	Mr President! I was actually thinking of focusing more on the cultural side, but at this point I should like to thank the Minister and thank him for his good cooperation. Thank you very much for always talking and the government cares about equality in schools. I think it is a wonderful thing to reject the fact that schools are unequal in all respects. They are jobs for children, and we must all have a good place there. This is also important because you have just spoken of segregation, for example. For me, this development of suburbs in a holistic way is always a matter of heart, and one of the cornerstones of it is educational equality and good schools everywhere. President! As far as this cultural aspect is concerned, I am very pleased with the additions and priorities we have made in the Section for Education and Science. Would I say that reading and creativity are always worthwhile if one could use such a saying, namely that is what we are investing in? The big project of reading will be followed up by various actions, and I am, of course, delighted with the funding involved. Of course, especially close to my heart is the Children's Book Institute in Tampere, which implements this kind of national Lukemo project. I myself have been there to visit and familiarise myself with the matter, and that is very important. All in all, I also welcome the fact that in general, we are investing in culture and directing our own emphasis towards it. I am glad that we also offer children, for example, the opportunity to go hand in hand with culture by supporting this Art Testers activity, which offers all 8th graders the opportunity to then gain access to the art experience. It does not happen automatically for all children, and it is therefore important that this kind of opportunity is given to children through school, for example. I firmly believe that life is easier and that society as a whole benefits from encouraging people, children and young people of all ages, to creativity. President! I have already raised this library issue in the debate, and I will not repeat it, but on the cultural side I am also pleased that we are investing in and mentioning many times in this area such as the livelihood of artists in the form of various questions. Among other things, we are making additions to the purchase of visual art, which supports this, and also, overall, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u234	Thank you. — At this stage, I shall give the Minister the last floor to this sitting. - Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u235	Mr President! Once again, I would like to thank all the representatives for an excellent debate and many good questions. Today, however, it has become clear how much education, education, culture and art really are common to all of us, and that many of the concerns raised during this debate about learning outcomes or the well-being of children and young people are also problems and themes that strongly unite us all. I would like to say once again that it is also clear from this debate that this government is using both permanent and fixed-term appropriations to strengthen the financing of education. The reason is that these resource needs are significant at all levels of education due to the fact that there was such a long development and the long phase in Finland when the funding level of education was declining. Quite a lot is being used here as a project-partnership expression, and it is of course extremely important that we above all ensure that the level of basic funding develops in a favourable way, but these state aids also have their place here as a whole, because when we grant state aids, as we have done in the context of the corona crisis, then we will be able to determine precisely that they must be used, for example, to support learning or to recruit teachers. In other words, using this instrument, we can best ensure that the money that is intended for education and support for children and young people is also used for this purpose. Many representatives raised the issue of a corona pandemic and the effects it has had, and they are quite correct comments. Although we have not had a national recommendation for distance education now on the side of comprehensive school, these recurring situations, where there may be quarantine decisions and there may be a student who has not received an official decision and has to be quarantined on their own, break the daily life of school day, break the routines there in the daily lives of educational institutions and schools. In other words, this pandemic is very much visible in schools, in other schools and also in day-care centres, and will be visible long after that too, unfortunately. That is why it is so important that we should also be prepared at national level to use additional resources to respond to the learning gap and to respond to this welfare deficit. As Minister for Education, I am going to suggest that this corollary funding should be extended to the academic year 22-23, because this pandemic is not yet over for children and young people. With regard to the situation of the boys, I would like to say in conclusion that many of the actions that will be taken during this reign are those that will be of particular benefit to the boys. The expansion of compulsory education, the strengthening of vocational training resources and the reform of the system of support for learning are important because, unfortunately, the boys are currently over-represented, for example, among those who need to be supported by learning or among school drop-outs. That is why it is also important to see which measures are precisely those that actually benefit the boys in particular and which we want to support the boys' survival. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u236	Good. Thank you. — Representative Hyrkko is absent. — — — — Congressman Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u237	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mr Andersson and Mr Kurvise for their commendable work in favour of education, education, culture and youth. You've cared about the students from the smallest to the greatest. Korona has increased loneliness and mental problems. Loneliness feels that if you disappeared from the world, no one would notice. Being alone, you feel invisible and unnecessary. The pandemic has increased the experience of loneliness. It has become the largest among schoolchildren, the elderly, the disabled and disabled. Contacts with friends, close friends and relatives have decreased. Loneliness has also increased in families. All of this is also reflected in day care, early childhood education and school. The situation in homes and schools is closely intertwined. According to the results published last Monday, one out of every three college students suffers from symptoms of anxiety and depression. Many students study at a university for the second year without access to contact teaching, interaction, face-to-face activities. Students have not been able to attach themselves to the student community, and loneliness has worsened. Minister Kurvinen decided early in the week on new grants to promote the study and well-being of university students during the course of the interest rate. This is an important decision because the life of those studying in higher education has been affected in many ways by the corona period. Many higher education institutions have continued in distance education this autumn. There are other examples. For example, Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences has worked in local education all the time. In Vaasa, for example, university students are remote but polytechnic students are in local education. We should find a single line. Mr President! The hand is for us to grab it and hold on. The mouth is for us to smile and say we've missed you. The eyes are for us to reach the others and the third, for joy and hope. Let's make Finland a kingdom of caring, where no one gets left alone in school. We are all needed to help others. Let's stick together and care. I wish the President and the Minister a peaceful Christmas and a year of care in 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u238	Thank you very much. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u239	Mr President! At the end of the fine, very fine speech by Mr Kinnusen, perhaps a couple of positive increases relating to the budgeting of next year for the Ministry of Education and Culture. One of these is also the Finnish model of hobby, which will therefore receive permanent, specifically permanent, funding. It is an excellent example of the will and the starting point of the world of values that the government sees as opportunities for children and young people to make their own creativity, to carry out their own exercise and to carry out their own passions. However, these hobbies, of which all of us here in the hall have examples of our own childhood and youth, are one of the things that carry a life-long path very far. They become memories, they become skills, they become friends. These are very important in everyone’s life. The second point is this increase in the income limits for student aid, which will therefore be achieved by 25% for next year. It is also a response to the labour shortage we all know about, for example in the service sectors throughout Finland. Students are also a good opportunity to strengthen the part-time labour market — and, of course, the important working life experience for young people, so-called CV labelling, which will then make it easier to get a job. This is therefore a significant improvement with the unanimous support of the students. This is where we all heard the struggle of the Coalition Party on this matter. Their main criticism is that why not make it permanent? As Mr Kurvinen has pointed out, we would first like to look at the impact of the increase in study aid on study time, which is a sensible measure — including to observe — for next year. I'm sure none of us are meant to have students like they're starting. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u240	Thank you, too! — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u241	Mr President! We are dealing with a very important area of governance now, and I am glad, as the previous representative has well described, for the change of direction and attitude that is now visible. We are serious about this very important administrative sector and its importance to Finland as a whole, its importance to people, its importance to the economy as well, because through knowledge we are also building the basis on which our business life will be based in the future. It is also a question of the budget for culture — very difficult times of interest for both culture and children — and we need to recognise more and more in the future that culture is an entirely equal part of our economy than some other areas, which we may have seen more as an economic factor. We have an extremely good opportunity to further increase the share of cultural sectors in Finland's economic growth. Good examples of this have been seen in the film industry. It is then necessary to ensure that writers and filmmakers have the opportunity to carry out their work — for example. One of the key issues is, of course, design, and there have been various projects in Finland, but I do not yet see it as an integral part of this debate on economic policy as, for example, industry is. It is now very important to recognise that this is just as important an area of activity. Indeed, in the neighbouring country of Sweden, for example, the music industry has very early become aware of how important it is. Although we have made good investments now, it is important to ensure their continuity. This month of hobby is an excellent reform this season. We can be proud of that. In addition, there are now various targets for the well-being of children and young people, but I hope that these will continue. With regard to science funding, a good parliamentary agreement has now been reached, and this must be reflected here in the euro in the future, because that effort will also bring us back many times more. Particular attention should be paid to the ability of staff to cope. There are now alarming examples of this in early childhood education, and it requires us to invest in these women-dominated sectors just as much as everyone else.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u242	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u243	Honorable Mr. Speaker! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture is one of the most important administrative areas, as mentioned in the previous speech. But, President-in-Office, I wanted to take the floor because, in this Chamber, especially on the right, this increase in the income limits for student aid was mentioned, that this increase in income limits would have been half-way. Well, now this raising of income limits in a quarter is a significant improvement in the income limits of student income. Students are allowed to work more alongside their studies without losing student support. And this sort of performance from here on the right, especially from the direction of the Coalition Party, has not come during the last parliamentary term. They, the previous governments, would have had the opportunity to tackle this, to make this important reform. Now, of course, this is an experiment for a year to come, but, as the Minister for Science and Culture has said, if there is more will to do with this, then this 25% increase could be taken as a permanent model. But above all, I would remind you that at last and finally this increase has been made. This government was able to do so. It's important, this change. A full-time student with nine months a year will be able to make additional income next year: EUR 3000 — President, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 3000 — and this will then increase from the current EUR 12500 income limit to EUR 15630. This is a significant improvement. This creates an opportunity for students to work with a little better minds now. And yes, students and student organisations have also been pleased with this reform. And now the status of students, the opportunities for working, are improved by the central minister of science and culture and this government, and we can be happy to see that next year the students will be happy to do a little more to raise their income.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u244	Thank you. — And Mrs Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u245	Mr President! One wish I forgot to pass on to Minister Andersson, to ask him, and that is that now, together with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, we should solve the trap for university students where an unemployed person who has already completed his degree is going to train for another degree in order to improve his labour market position. That is not possible at the moment, and this would require the three ministries together to be the case, because we just want the number of university graduates to rise even further. And yes, we want to improve the labour market position for everyone. Mr President! I do not want to begin to think back to the old days, but the content of Mr Vikman’s speech — it was such a promise of education number two — is exactly what I am going to print out, I will put it on the bulletin board and I promise to follow it intensively whether it will be the same as the previous government’s promise of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u246	Thank you. — And Mr Holopainen will fit in this section. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Here I will continue with the exceptional situation and the good achievements of this term of government. It is known that the well-being of children and young people has been seriously affected during this epidemic, and now I would like to hope that, in the light of the current data, for a long time, we will have to live with some kind of epidemic, perhaps for years — it may be that the situation gets easier from time to time and then worsens — perhaps making this whole set of corona restrictions work, effective and genuinely taking into account the children first principle of this government. There are now reports that we have even cancelled outdoor events in some schools, day-care centres, Christmas parties, but we know that outdoors are much less contagious than indoors. At the same time, we have a situation where, in accordance with the current legislation, we can have a salibandy match, with thousands of people, hundreds of people talking side by side, shouting without masks. Certainly, in view of the progress of the epidemic, these restrictions will not be fully effective, effective and will not take children's rights into account. In addition, we should always allow children to go to school for as long as possible, and it is worth considering why there are different testing methods in some countries, and rapid tests for schoolchildren on a very regular basis. In addition to this, research has just come in on it — and of course it has been available in the past, but also newer information — that ventilation will help significantly to prevent the spread of this virus. So we have a lot of ways that we could still put in place, and thank you for staying with the schools. Thank you to the teachers who have stretched out for distance school first and now under the actual emergency conditions. It may be that at some point we will have to go to distance school more widely if the children's first principle is to be implemented. It can't be that we have mass events open and schools closed. It's not a real priority. We must draw up a plan to ensure that the primary activities in this society are always kept open for as long as possible, and yes I will count the school as such, the right of children to attend school. I would also like to thank you for the fact that a sequel to the D-Visa has now been launched by the Government to ensure that students, researchers and their families get to Finland very easily. The aim is even to triple the international
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u248	The debate and the debate will be suspended and will be resumed at a later date in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u249	The general debate on Section 29, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue. — The debate continues. Congressman Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u250	Honorable Mr. Speaker! I wanted to take the floor again and thank you for the fact that this government has also targeted funding in the direction of art and culture. The report of the Committee on Finance also states: ‘In this case, additional funding is particularly important in terms of employment, continuity and development. In addition to those previously involved in state co-financing, OKM has approved 12 new actors in theatre, dance and circus. The free-field grants are now increasing.’ In my opinion, this is a very good new development and policy. Culture is particularly important in this time, and when the corona has put many cultural sectors in distress, I am pleased that these issues are being raised gradually. Then there have also been good additions to physical activity. Exercise is also an important sector and should continue to be developed. Well, on the cultural side, I'd like to take one lift. In this year's budget, Parliament added EUR 1 million to the development of the e-library, with which the development of a joint e-library of municipalities has now begun. This is a good step forward for the library industry and, above all, for the library network to then be developed. Libraries are important. In our municipalities, they are, frankly, living rooms, where municipal people can then read books, read magazines, and then educate themselves. I would like, President, to thank the Committee on Finance for this report, not only for the administrative sector, but also for all the administrative sectors, and therefore also for the Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u251	Thank you, Merry Christmas! — Representative Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u252	Mr President! I only have one message for 2022. There have been a lot of key projects in comprehensive schools and in primary education, and somehow I hope that next year we will finally understand that our primary school must be a continuous top project. So let's focus on what's going on there, that basic work, basic skills, learning and being together. Let it also be a message on the basis of this report by the Committee on Finance, namely the fundamentals of honour.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u253	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u254	Mr President! I'm gonna get a bridge. If that bridge building succeeds and the Speaker will allow it, then a minute's bridge building. This debate at the Ministry of Education and Culture talked about libraries, about education, basic services. They're important, big things. I ran from that very distance to be in the previous point on foreign and security policy, above all foreign policy, and in that area, as we are talking about in this area, too often the world situation, the world's poor, and the poor in Finland. To that point, I just wanted to say that the person who is committed to solidarity in Finland is a person of solidarity on a global scale. And the fact that we also solve common problems at global level helps us Finns. And then the big thing that I wanted to say comes from the use of state funds. It comes from why we always talk about the problems of global poverty, for example, we take it away from Finnish poor people. It's not, it's actually not. We have many items of expenditure, even in the field of the Ministry of Education and Culture, or, for example, defence spending, and I wanted to end this speech before Christmas with the fact that Nobel Prizeists, 50 Nobel Prizeists, have appealed to the whole world for a genuine reduction of arms-related resources — 2 % a year. Equipment expenditure has doubled since 2000. And here, if there is room for all of us to solve the problems of global poverty, to solve climate change problems, even if we have resources to raise the level of education, which is in this section, if that is what we want. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-17-ps-154.u255	Merry Christmas! Thank you for the floor.
