ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance, i.e. no later than 1 November 2021. The debate and proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 29 September 2021. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the agenda from 3 to 21 January. on the subject. The debate will continue. — Minister Tuppurainen, presentation, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the state budget next year, and property income is an important part of revenue. It is important to obtain these revenues for the State. They finance many valuable spending in our welfare state. The government always owns it for some reason. We have holdings in companies with a specific task assigned to the company, there are companies with a legitimate strategic interest on the part of the State, and thirdly, there are companies with which we have a financial interest. We receive property income from the majority of companies to varying degrees. The estimate of next year's property income in the draft budget is EUR 2.4 billion. This is a considerable sum and, of course, only an estimate. During next year we will be able to analyse in more detail the amount of capital repayments and dividend and sales income from the state budget. Ownership policy is, of course, more than just the collection of property income from companies. The Government’s ownership policy decision has outlined the key principles of ownership policy that we follow. The principle is that the State applies the division of functions and responsibilities under the Companies Act in its corporate governance. Good governance is also applied. This means that operational and management decisions belong to the company's management and board of directors. But the state is an active and proactive owner. This means that we set the targets as the company's owner and we influence and take a position as necessary on the company's strategic and financial issues. The Board of Directors and its Chairman and the senior management are responsible for discussing the essential issues affecting the company's operations and the value of the company with significant owners. State-owned companies are expected to have an open flow of information and discussions with the state owner, taking into account the size of state ownership. As a owner, the State will actively discuss with the companies within the limits set by the legislation, taking into account other owners. The ownership policy decision has defined the views of the State owner on the corporate responsibility objectives of the ownership policy. The policies have required companies to integrate corporate responsibility into the business and ambition of corporate responsibility management. In addition, there is a need to identify climate impacts and to take into account the Paris Climate Agreement and the Government's objective of carbon neutrality in 2035. We call for the identification of human rights and we highlight our negative position on aggressive tax planning. Stability and security of state ownership contribute to the ability to monitor and evaluate the operating environment closely. In accordance with the ownership policy decision, the state's company-specific ownership strategy policies will be evaluated throughout the entire Government term and, if necessary, redirected. Ownership policy is therefore dynamic and active in nature. The property income of the central government budget consists of dividends and repayments of capital and income from the sale of shares. The budget does not specify the distribution of property income into different types of income. The State receives dividends from both listed companies and companies wholly or wholly owned by the State. A precise forecast of property income has been recorded in the draft budget, but at this stage it is difficult to predict the actual execution of property income for the coming year. Although the recovery of companies from the global pandemic crisis has been rapid and very strong in general terms, the assessment of dividend income is challenging, for example. Solutions relating to company ownership are always made on the basis of a careful overall assessment, taking into account all the strategic and financial interests of the State. In advance, the responsible owner does not speculate on any sales. Madam President! The government is a stable owner. State shareholdings are our national assets. By taking care of them and supporting their growth and development, we will be able to secure the value of their operations and company assets in the future. Together, ladies and gentlemen, we can strengthen the long-term sustainability of state ownership policy beyond the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u3	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button. — Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u4	Mr President! There has been quite a strange debate in public about the change in ownership of SSAB, the former Rautaruukki in Finland, which moved from the companies sold to companies that were more closely monitored and controlled by the State. This is entirely justified by the fact that the steel industry is in the midst of a major transformation once again, and it is a major national interest to maintain the future of the steel industry in Finland. Of course, it will be brighter the better it will be able to develop carbon-free production methods, for example, in terms of both basic steel and its further processing. And it also requires this northern cooperation between the countries of Finland and Sweden. I will continue to encourage this work to be intensified and to take on this very process of further processing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u5	Time. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u6	Mr President! You, Minister Tuppurainen, said today in the Helsingin Sanomat that the industrial policy stance is changing, and I see that it raises a lot of questions for people who, for example, invest in listed companies and work in industrial policy in various tasks: What does that mean in practice? What is the direction in which Finnish industrial policy is being taken? And there is a question which has also attracted interest in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: This decision by SSAB to transfer The issue of whether there has been a change in ownership policy is raised by the Solidium state shares under the State Ownership Steering Unit. In practice: is the state extending these political tentacles more and more to the market and also operating through minority ownership? I would like you, Minister, to open this up in front of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u7	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u8	Madam President! In my opinion, state ownership plays a very important role in Finland — it has been in the past and must continue to be. I would also like to see more attention being paid to such fundamental issues. I mean, we have sometimes done a little worse by selling electricity networks, for example, which has turned out to be a terrible mistake. I would also like to see more investment in the forestry sector, and what is most important is, of course, that aspect of the mining industry. There are hugely rich deposits in Finland, which have then been sold abroad. And we already have two companies through which the state already has ownership in the mining industry. But when we find such a strategic, very valuable performance, I would like to see the backbone found in this country so that we can deal with it in such a way that it is done by a state mining company because of the example of LKAB in Sweden: it is a place where we know how to do the job and we do not need to take this course anymore, and we all know how moderately prosperous Sweden is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u9	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u10	Mr President! I would ask Minister Tuppurainen: when the shares were cheaper last year because of the interest rate, do you engage in such active investment that, when the shares come down, the government would acquire more shares, for example, of the companies that it already owns? I have been monitoring their development, and the government would have made a big account of it if, for example, Fortum and Neste, something like this, had been recovered. Are you doing this kind of investment, active investment?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u12	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u13	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. I agree with Mr Koskinen's view of this fossil-free steel. It is worthwhile to be a pioneer in such matters. And then, of course, it is important that not only our corporate governance, but everything else, such as national climate and energy policy, is playing the same game and creating an economy that is sustainable here on the ground and a pioneer in the future. My question relates to corporate governance and the communication and influence of own companies. In other words, we have the state to set those interests, objectives and then these companies should act within them. But of course they themselves, as we know for sure, are also lobbying in our direction, among other things. And in this regard, it would be interesting to hear how the Minister, as it were, follows that the interest, the interest of the State, is the determining factor within which these companies also bring out their own message and ideas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u14	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Finland prospered with state-owned companies. We had a mixed economy in which key production tools were common ownership, and that was for us and is still important today. That's what our wealth is based on. But this isn't just a distant history. As has been shown here, SSAB, for example, is a good example of how many good things can be done with those holdings today. For example, Neste is a good example of my own city of birth. No one else would have established such a thing in this country, and if it had been sold at the time when the government property was being beaten to meat, it would never have become one when there was not such a long-term ownership that it would have wanted to invest in Finland. But I wouldn't underestimate the financial side. It's a good question here. We get a loan at a negative interest rate, but investments do. Even central government investments have produced up to 10 per cent at their best. But if you look at the stock market, you could have expected an average return of 7% to the owners. I would like to ask whether there have been any calculations as to how much Finland's net debt has grown in these
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u16	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u18	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u19	Mr President, ärade talman! Here the government is always talking about Finland being involved in climate change. Then we are the owners of Fortum, which opened a coal power plant in Germany last year. How do these go together with the government's corporate governance? I was the only one against Fortum usually buying Uniper because there is so much of that carbon power. How do you intend to influence it, and in what way does this coal affect your strategy?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u20	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u21	Madam President! I thank the Minister for his presentation. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the actual budget document under discussion, on page 90, for revenue, the whole of this sum of 2.5 billion is very briefly presented. There are four lines of text on this whole. I understand that there may not be a need for a broader approach in this context, but that these guidelines will then be dealt with in other forums. But I suddenly made such a search for the list of our state companies — i.e. wholly or majority-owned companies — and there are 52 companies, and as we know, very different. On VR, Posti, Alko, Yleisradio, Veikkaus, FinnHEMS, Finnish Aviation College and so on. It would be interesting, though, that, in some context, these should be dealt with in greater depth here at the plenary level. Some important details have now been raised, but I myself will therefore draw attention to this very limited presentation of the whole in the budget book.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u22	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u23	Mr President! The State owns the majority of Kemijoki Oy directly and also through Fortum. The water catchment area of Kemijoki Oy covers two thirds of all the water catchment areas of Lapland, and it has been completely blocked from hiking fish by power plant construction after the wars. These pass-by Finns have been successfully made for hiking fish in other parts of the world and also in Finland. My question is: when the state is a large owner, how will you influence this issue to finally build these pass-through scales?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u24	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u25	Mr President! I, too, will return to this matter of SSAB. Of course, it is a very great thing if and when it is possible to produce steel in a fossil-free way, and it is, of course, a matter of very significant emissions at the whole of Finland in relation to what is involved in this SSAB, but a word of warning about the way forward: However, the priority here is that we should not lose our competitiveness, otherwise this production will be transferred to a factory somewhere else where these environmental standards are much less well managed. In other words, I understand that progress must be made, but that progress must be made in such a way that it does not happen that the crane dies before the swamp melts, because this is also a very big issue in the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u26	Let us take one more speech from the representative and then the Minister, and then we shall proceed with the debate. — Representative Kemppi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u27	Madam President! The Minister is also responsible for the Government's investigation and research activities, which I would like to ask you about. This activity supports decision-making, knowledge management and, of course, the renewal of operational practices. It is clear to me that we also need that researched information to support decision-making, which is why I consider this to be particularly valuable. Many social problems are interdependent phenomena, as we see in our work, and the current administrative silos and detailed treatment of legislation and the budget do not necessarily support such a broad approach to issues such as exclusion, climate change, the ability to work and many other topics that are relevant to us. I would therefore ask the Minister of State: How has the Government developed research and clearing and settlement activities over the past two years? Whether we have jumped forward in the same way as we have gone in the direction of child budgeting, for example, as the Minister for Finance
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u28	Secretary Tuppurainen, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u29	Thank you for this very good debate. I shall begin by responding to Mr Lindén's speech. All in all, we have 66 state-owned companies, and it is a very wide field and not all of them are under direct ownership control by the Prime Minister's Office, but we have companies as special-purpose companies under the guidance of ministries as well as in the portfolio of Solidium, for example, as financial investments. A broad package, and I have considered it important that we have a good parliamentary dialogue on this whole. That is why I have also set up a parliamentary advisory board on corporate governance, which meets on a regular basis. It has the representation of the groups, and we are discussing with both the civil servants and the signatory the way in which the ownership policy should be directed in this period of time — the issues raised by Mr Hoskonen. Of course, the State must take into account, for example, security of supply issues or structural changes in industrial policy and, for example, the mitigation of climate change in a way that safeguards the strategic interests of the State and, on the one hand, the preservation of the property values of our state-owned assets. I shall now turn to this case of SSAB, to which Mr Grahn-Laasonen referred, among other things. The chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs invited me to a dialogue with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and in a very detailed debate I went over the details which cannot be opened here, Mr President, because these issues are also covered by matters of company secrecy. But what can be said here about SSAB is that we have already outlined together in the decision in principle on ownership policy that the State will clarify its own strategic interests in ownership throughout the parliamentary term. When changes took place in SSAB’s ownership of SSAB during spring and early autumn, Sweden’s wholly-owned state-owned company LKAB became the largest owner, and in the autumn the company had a breakthrough in fossil-free steel produced by hydrogen reduction technology, we concluded that there was also a need to re-examine the interests of the State’s owners. This review was carried out at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and as a result it was concluded that we have reason to keep a strategic interest in ownership. As a state owner, I had announced that we do not want to give up SSAB's ownership in this new situation, and it is only natural that Solidium, a financial investor, operates on financial interests, does not have such types of companies that we have a strategic interest in. As a result, the only logical conclusion was that these holdings are transferred directly to the Government Office. This is not a question of political tentacles of any kind, and in fact I find it somewhat questionable that this type of speech should be used at all. It suggests that the state has something vague about its activities, which is not the case. The State operates in all its ownership policy in accordance with the law on limited liability companies and good governance, and so we are ambitious in relation to this SSAB's corporate governance. All operational decisions concerning, inter alia, schedule and investments in this production of carbon dioxide, fossil-free steel are made at the company's head in accordance with the normal order. President! I'm sure the conversation will continue, and I'm here to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u30	Thank you. — And the debate will continue, the debate will continue. — Next, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u31	Mr President! The Board of Directors has made a fairly good decision in principle on the principles that state companies must follow, the ownership steering decision. However, it seems that the content of this decision has not been included in all state-owned companies, but has been extended to the old model. Representative Juuso mentioned the activities of Kemijoki Oy so that the hiking fish would not return to Kemijoki. I do not believe that this is in line with sustainable development or with current knowledge. Mr Harkimo has also mentioned that Fortum's majority ownership in Uniper, which has opened a new coal power plant, and I think the strangest thing about Finnish state policy and corporate governance is that,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u32	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u33	Madam President! European Minister Tuppurainen, a couple of weeks ago, was reported that Finland's net contribution increased. Last year, Finland paid EUR 781 million more to the EU than it got back. If there was not enough to digest, an even larger cake has been baked on the back of Finns in the form of joint responsibilities. Finland’s EU responsibilities, together with all of them, are up to EUR 50 billion. This is horrifying because the government has the enthusiasm to increase these responsibilities even further. The recovery package was a big deal for you, even though the Treaties were booming in their alliances. Holtless debt is dangerous, but it is even more dangerous if you can do it on other countries. Finland is now living beyond its means, and we cannot accept the debts of other countries as well. The Finnish purse can't take it, even if the government can take it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u34	Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u35	Madam President! As a representative of the Raahen Parliament, I would like to thank Minister Tuppura, who is responsible for corporate governance, for the fact that we have sensitive antennae there when talking about state companies, which are of great strategic benefit to us. This is demonstrated by the fact that Rautaruukki’s shares in SSAB’s Raahe steel plant have now been transferred directly to the control of state ownership. This is also a very important message for the savages. There are 2,800 employees directly employed, but the indirect impact on employment is extremely important. And, best of all, Finland is a signposter and signposter when we go towards steel production without carbon, i.e. hydrogen reduction. Of course we need a lot more electricity and then recycled steel and so on, so there are many steps to achieve that goal, but this is the right step, and I want this message to be brought to you personally. But then the question is: what is the follow-up strategy for SSAB from the point of view of the state company,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u36	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u37	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. I would have liked to ask: when, under state ownership and control, you apply principles and objectives and monitor companies, how closely do you monitor the impact of changes in companies on regions and the lives of ordinary citizens? I would now like to highlight the Post, where a lot of turmoil has taken place over the last few years. People’s confidence in the prompt, regular course of the mail has been shaken, and much has become practical examples that the mail has not come in its time. As an example, officials or authorities often send decisions by post, which generally state, for example, that the customer is considered to have been informed seven days after sending the mail, and now there is feedback from all over Finland that in very many places seven days the mail does not arrive and people should react to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u38	Congressman Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u39	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, Minister. The question that interests and interests us is what kind of country Finland is in the eyes of investors and the investment environment, with predictability as a key element. As a result, in relation to this SSAB decision, there is a question of whether it is some kind of precedent for a change in ownership policy. Is the resolution on ownership policy still in force? And, above all, the question that arose today with the article from the Helsingin Sanomat: when the Minister states that the industrial policy stance is changing, can you open up what it means?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u40	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u41	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, Minister, for this good introduction. Now that we are talking about this carbon-neutral steel, one cannot help but take part in the debate. The direction is the right one, and Finland can be a pioneer in this. The customers of steelworks want an overall carbon footprint from the final product to their knowledge, and this is also one way to reduce it and increase our competitiveness in the world. But this is gonna take a lot of electricity. How is the government planning to continue along this road for this electricity to be available? We all know here that nuclear power, for example, takes so long to get more of it to Finland that it does not necessarily come into question in this timetable. There have been difficulties with wind power with regard to zoning, and could it be possible to consider these synthetic fuels, synthetic alternatives to storage of electricity? After all, wind power cannot be stored, but synthetic power can be stored, and this could then be used to secure this cheap electricity in the future. Which means would it be possible to make a synthetic into a storage facility?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u42	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u43	Madam President! Ownership matters. In a few years, when Minister Häkämies sold Kemira, the farmers paid back its purchase price to Yara. Minister Haavisto himself said afterwards that the sale of electricity networks was a mistake, and this same mistake has been made in a large number of provinces and municipalities, and consumers have then paid for it. Nevertheless, there is certainly much more to be expected than what, for example, the Companies Act allows the Minister of Corporate Governance to do. That is why I would like to see this opened up to the general public at some point, because it is often a huge pressure that comes to the Minister of Corporate Governance from unfulfilled dreams. Well, I have two little approaches:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to remind you of this one-minute speech. — Next, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u45	Thank you, honourable Speaker! This is like a little beginner's question, but I actually wonder who is responsible for the state balance sheet. We see in this note to the budget Y 111 a good account of the negative equity of the state. I then began to wonder who, in a sense, is responsible for the balance sheet of the State and therefore also for this negative equity capital and then for this somewhat worrying development in recent years. With regard to what Mr Lindén mentioned earlier, I would also like to say that it is quite limited in the presentation of these revenue from sales and dividends received by the State. In the future, it could perhaps include, for example, the amount of dividends paid in previous years. It could then also be predicted what it might be in the future. — Like that, that's all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u46	Congressman Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u47	Madam President! My warmest thanks to the Minister for this excellent presentation. As the Minister has said earlier, the governance of state ownership policy is responsible and dynamic. And when it is clear from the point of view of the state that the interests of the owners are changing, of course it should also be done. This is precisely a question of responsible dynamics in practice. This decision does not destabilise or destabilise, but, on the contrary, it is those who maintain this predictability that stand in the decision in principle of this ownership policy, which is also in line with the individual case. Mr Grahn-Laasonen was in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to hear background information on this whole and the decisions taken and also to have a great deal of expertise on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u48	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u49	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister about this electricity situation. At the same time as it is reported that the electricity price, the electricity transmission charges, would be pushed down, there is also news that the price and use of electricity may rise by up to 25% in the coming winter. What is your view of such conflicting news stories at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u50	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u51	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. The importance of state ownership and state-owned companies has been well highlighted here, and it is mainly that we should also discuss their activities more clearly, that in what way — whether they are actually under the government office, or whether they belong elsewhere. For example, I'm taking Post and VR now. So VR also has operational activities that serve the citizens, and at the moment, if the starting point for corporate governance is that income is paid to the state and then the services are reduced again, then I think it is the wrong line. In other words, it should also be pointed out that the way VR works in the future, for example, and the same is true of Posti. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u52	Like this. — And at this point I say that, according to my arithmetic, everyone who is here and who has wanted to speak has received at least one speech. And now we will take the Minister's speech and then we will be able to continue this debate, because there are still reservations, so, Mr Tuppurainen, for four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u53	Thank you, and I will actually start with the questions left over from the previous round. At least Mrs Wallin and Mrs Saramo referred to state investment and our profits, and this is an important aspect of my work as well. I am, of course, bound by the budget for the current year established by Parliament. The expectation of property income is also EUR 2.4 billion, as is the current budget for next year. They are considerable property income, and they must be obtained from somewhere, and that is why we must also take care of the productivity of our investment activities. Our financial interests are located in Solidium, which operates independently according to its own mandate. Solidium has, you can say, been a sort of success story of investments since it was founded. Its average return since its establishment has been 11.7% since 2008 — a relatively high average return. In time, more than EUR 5 billion was invested in it, and at present the value of the holdings is around EUR 8.9 billion. At the same time, over the years, the state has increased dividends from Solidium by over 6 billion, and if this year is still taken into account, it is likely that close to 7 billion will be achieved. Quite successful investment in Solidium has been done, but it has also been possible to retain this role as a national anchor holder. After all, Solidium is for us to have ownership in listed companies, this national interest. We do not want to become a subsidiary economy; our tool is Solidium. It is the stable owner of these companies to which we do not have a strategic interest in itself. But we expect good financial results from all companies. We expect companies, including Posti and VR, to pay dividends as far as the result allows. We do not set the criteria for dividend income, as it were, but the company's board of directors will assess what this ability to pay dividends is at any time, and the decisions will then be taken at the general meeting. Of course, it is clear that the companies will make their dividend presentations in accordance with what will safeguard the company's long-term operations. We are not trying to rob those companies that do not have that ability to pay dividends, even though these expectations of future property income are high. But according to good governance, these decisions are made in the company's board of directors, and if there is a need to respond to the service level, then, for example, in VR, these service level criteria are then set at the Ministry of Regulators, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications. And in this respect, this division of labour must be clear: we, as the owner, cannot direct VR's transport policy or Post's operational policy. But for Mr Tanus: For example, we have discussed with Posti’s management how this customer satisfaction could be better integrated into the criteria of management remuneration. I think it is important that this customer satisfaction is reflected in the way in which performance pay in companies is developed. Then I will be brief about this case of SSAB and this so-called industrial policy stance. If you had, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, read more about the interview with the Helsingin Sanomat, then I did respond in that interview to this tune. The issue is that both Europe and perhaps the wider world economy have long suffered from a period of slow growth due to a lack of investment. At the same time, we need to respond to climate change mitigation and the transition to this carbon-free, carbon-neutral society. We need investment, and of course the main player is a private operator. The private sector will take the risk and assess where to invest, but if there is no change, public intervention will also be needed. This is probably a rather strong view of the investment currently needed, including by economists, and this view is widely shared in the US and the EU, including Germany,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u54	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u55	Madam President! Minister! Thank you for your good contributions to the Minister. This is an energy policy that I am extremely concerned about. The price of electricity currently on the stock exchange is EUR 111 per megawatt hour, plus the consumer will still be subject to taxes and transfer fees. So we are currently at about EUR 150 at a megawatt price at the moment, which means that when we do not have a power reserve, next winter there will be a huge crisis in this country. Now that we are removing peat from the biocatastrophes in the production of CHP power, we will lose about 1800 megas on the hardest cold days, or about what the new Eura River 3 will do. This turf hatred leads this country to its knees, and I ask you two questions, one of which concerns this power generation: what are we going to do when we are in crisis? And this is the kind of crisis that you don't get through by talking about it. The second point is security of supply: After the peat has been hated, what happens to peat stores when we no longer have security of supply? It's taken care of by a Russian oligarch or someone else if a truck gets it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u56	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u57	Madam President! I will continue with this energy policy and the concern that this increase in energy prices is taking place at the moment, because in this whole budgetary debate we have been talking about how important it is that growth continues and that the price of energy is going to rise strongly will then stop growth. In that sense, ensuring that we have energy at affordable prices is actually the whole of our future economic policy, one might say, a fundamental fundament. And, of course, it has a strong inflectional effect. Sometimes one wonders whether this type of increase in energy prices will perhaps be appropriate for the indebted countries of southern Europe — the debts will then melt — but it will be a cold ride here in the north and quite disastrous for our operating conditions and our industry. And in that sense I would have liked to ask you again about your other portfolio: you will abolish the taxonomy legislation which will also threaten the emission-free energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u58	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u59	Mr President! This dry summer in northern Europe has indeed given us a taste of the central problem that will be in this green transition in the coming decades, how to obtain sufficient affordable energy production and also the arrangements, storage and sufficient capacity for the transfer of this variation, but this is perhaps more of a side of the Minister for Economic Affairs. To this criticism of Mr Grahn-Laasonen on industrial policy: After all, the future of the steel industry is, to a very large extent, an industrial policy issue, not only for us but also for Europe and, to a certain extent, globally. It involves a carbon tariff-like arrangement in order to reduce emissions on a global scale at all. It cannot be required that Europe should use much more expensive methods to manufacture steel and then hand over, like the British steel industry, to the Indian or Chinese.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u60	Congressman Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u61	Mr President! I believe that in Parliament we broadly share the view that SSAB's investments play a major role in reducing carbon dioxide emissions in Finland. We have been very pleased about the technological breakthroughs that have taken place in the various industries, and I also agree very much with the Minister that these investments are urgently needed. Of course, ownership policy must be in line with the conditions for it. I did read that article in Helsingin Sanomat right to the end, and actually the question that was still a little missed here is this predictability. It is crucial in the eyes of investors and in general when assessing Finland as an investment environment that our operating environment must be predicted, that it is possible to see what the role of the state is, for example through ownership policy, what the role of the state is when acting as a minority owner for companies in Solidium's portfolio, for example. Now that there's been a clear change,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u62	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u63	Madam President! I would like to continue with the question from the Minister — I did not get a clear answer — that, now that the values of the shares came down strongly last year, whether the state was an active player in it and, for example, acquiring shares in companies that already have significant holdings. Now their values have come up, and it would have made a significant account in this language, to put it this way, and we would need less debt. Was the government active at that point? Can you tell us that clearly? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u64	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u65	Madam President! After all, this is not just a question lesson for the Minister, although there is a unique opportunity, and that is why I would like to speak here about one state-owned company called FinnHEMS, which is therefore our medical helicopter company. After all, this activity has a very long history. In time, more than 20 years ago, a number of studies were already carried out. Then there was volunteer work. I'm sure everyone remembers Medi-Hel. Then a company owned by university hospitals, operating with state funding, was born, and now this is a state limited company. This is very important, and this is of course functionally related to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This company currently has six bases: Rovaniemi, Oulu, Tampere, Kuopio, Helsinki Airport and Turku — and Ostrobothnia and Kymenlaakso await the creation of the bases. This activity, which is highly developed internationally, for example in Germany and Norway, is very important at the moment, and I wanted to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u66	I will give you three more replies, followed by the Minister. I will give the answers to Mr. Tanus, Mr. Harjante and Mr. Malmi. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u67	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I would have liked to ask you again about Finnair: when you are having a conversation with the companies we own, of course, there the government is making policies and decisions, but I would still have liked to ask you what kind of discussion you usually have on such broader policies, for example, considering that we should still be able to keep the country widely not just inhabited but functional. However, when we want more international players, companies and international events in Finland, it is of course very important that we also have air connections that work, not only to Helsinki but to go further than that, and of course I am talking about this second growth centre, Tampere, and elsewhere. If we think there are many airports and activities in Sweden other than the capital, we feel that it is very concentrated here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u68	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u69	Madam President! It is very good that this energy has risen to the debate here. That is certainly something that will be discussed later today in the context of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. It is clear that sufficient production of zero-emission electricity and heat is the one that enables the building of a carbon-free welfare society, the mitigation of climate change, the loss of nature, and, of course, it is also a prerequisite for economic activity. . . [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u72	And Mr Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u73	Thank you, Madam President. To this energy and to these power plants, and indeed to these small power plants, which have also been ignored in this debate, and among other things to these Fortum fishing sites and their future: what kind of thinking and vision does the government have for improving these fishing paths? For example, in my home town the trout and salmon have been made to rise from the brink of extinction when this kind of bypass is made, the fish road. And now the second new and most recent are these new fishing roads of the Hiitola River, where these old power plants are being dismantled, which have been built in their time specifically for the needs of industry. And perhaps such a look at the future as to what is the low cost of energy for industry and how it is produced, I would miss and also this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u74	Secretary Tuppurainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u75	Thank you! — Here, Mr President, there are a lot of detailed questions, references to companies, and I think it is best that we continue the discussion in the Parliamentary Advisory Board on Corporate Governance. But briefly on a few points: Firstly, this issue of the production of zero-emission electricity is absolutely critical of the restructuring of our society as a whole and of our future success. The main answer to this question is Mr Lintilä, Minister of Industry, and it is clear that I, as the owner, am not in a position to organise these conditions for electricity generation. But I'm directing the companies towards carbon-neutral operations in accordance with the corporate governance principle. This is about Fortum, representative Hassi. Of course, Fortum has listened carefully to our message and aims to be the forerunner of the emission-free circular economy itself in Europe, also in connection with Uniper's activities. To this question, what did Mr Vallin say about our investment activity: perhaps even in that presentation I tried to describe the state as a stable owner. We are not a speculative investor and we are not aiming for the quick profits that may exist. Anyone who perhaps invests in listed companies knows that it is quite a bumpy road sometimes. But through Solidium, for example, the State seeks to act as an anchor owner of national interest. It does not include the pursuit of quick wins. But in any case, the return on Solidium over the years has been to some extent even unparalleled. To the question of what Mr. Tanus and Mr. Kalmari put about Finnair: This week I have met the Chairman and CEO of the company's Board of Directors and, with the weight of our ownership, I have signalled our expectation that once air travel recovers, we will get out of the pandemic, as well as these strategic connections that are important to us, domestic air connections will be restored on commercial terms. This is the owner's will mode, and this is clearly communicated to the company, and the company is taking measures in accordance with it. Of course, the situation in Finnair is critically difficult, critically difficult, after perhaps the biggest crisis in the history of the aviation industry, but the common view is that we are trying to bring our national airline back to its feet. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you spoke of predictability and SSAB and our ownership policy decision. This is not a precedent; we are acting in line with the principle of our existing corporate governance. But I'd like to ask you: As chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, have you perhaps confused this debate by expressing views on political tentacles and on the state as a market-stricken actor? Have you yourself, as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, been creating, as it were, a lack of confidence in the functioning of the State? We acted in full compliance with the law on limited liability companies and in accordance with good governance, and this was dealt with in detail, among other things, in the Economic Committee that you chaired. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u76	Let us move on to the list of speakers for a moment. — Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u77	Mr President! In fact, I was preparing for this discussion period, thinking that we are discussing Finland's European policy, because Minister Tuppurainen is not only a Minister for Corporate Governance but also a Minister for Europe, and a few words about this European policy. This year in this Chamber it has been said many times that the EU is different from the EU to which Finland once joined more than a quarter of a century ago. Well, that's right. Finland and the world are also different from when Finland decided to join the EU at the end of 1994. It is important that both Finland and the European Union continue to develop in such a way that we can solve the problems that world development poses. In fact, the European Union is important to the whole world, not least because, without a determined European Union climate policy and climate diplomacy, climate change mitigation would be much more important in its origins than it is now. It is not enough now, but without Europe the situation would be much worse. Many other environmental protection issues are such that the European Union has shown the way in them, such as EU legislation on the energy efficiency of electrical and electronic equipment, the ban on hazardous substances in them and so on, and so on are those that have led European marketing companies to repair their equipment in these respects to the world market. But when the problems around us change, the European Union must also change. For example, there have now been many speeches in this Chamber that China's current activities are quite worrying, and much more has been said about Russia. It is important that the EU, as a foreign policy player in the world, is able to act more effectively than it is currently able to do, and that is why I think it is important that Finland should support the move from unanimity to a qualified majority in at least part of the decision-making process, particularly in matters where a rapid response is needed. Another key problem in which the EU needs to change in order to solve the worsening problem is tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u78	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u79	Madam President! To begin with, partly inspired by Mr Hassi, first of all by these common plans of the European Union. There must be no solidarity or right of taxation... After all, we have already adopted the last recovery package in the vote on 17.5. But that is not the way it is, for God's sake, that during the present accession treaty the European Union will come here to take decisions. Certainly not if the Constitution is still in force in this country. What kind of enthusiasm do you have, ladies and gentlemen, to hand over Finnish property to Europe? There's always a lot of takers if we're going to split the money. I haven't seen one of those lines yet, where you don't take the stuff you want to distribute. Every pair of rubber shoes will disappear from the shelves if the detector is given. It is irresponsible of this kind, and it seems to me that the European Union must have everything: we have to pay their social costs, the problems caused by the interest rate, many others and still take on huge debts, so that others... Italy is now investing EUR 3 billion in the recovery package due to higher energy prices. We're paying the Italian electricity bills? You might want to start thinking about what's going on in this house. The second point is the hydrogen economy. What on earth are we doing with this hydrogen economy? Tell me. I'm sure you'll need electricity for that. You can use the SSAB Rautaruuk factory on the shore of the Gulf of Bothnia as a measure. If steel is injected into the hydrogen economy, it will require as much electricity as the amount of electricity produced by Olkiluoto 3 on the Eura River. Where is it taken from? Currently, the price of electricity on the stock market is 100-fifty with taxes and zero power reserve. The price is rising by noise, and we are dismantling our own Finnish production. And then, as a great wisdom, Sitra is suggesting to people that more earth wind power is being made, 70 per cent by 2050 will be managed by wind power. Even blind Reetta no longer believes it, although she certainly understands electrical technology better than those who speak such words. It will never happen that we will start making hydrogen with electricity and we will have our own cheap forms of energy in this country. If there's enough money, you can always experiment with society, but that's the way that the creditor comes along to say that this game is over. With regard to Finnair, Minister, when you creditfully mentioned that the traffic in the provinces is what it is, that it is quite a disgrace in itself, that we have our own national airline and then we pay money to foreign companies, we give government subsidies to fly to Joensuu and many other places. We've got to get it on a sustainable basis. It creates a customer relationship that the customer can trust that the traffic works, and not this way that comes when and leaves when he leaves and leaves at all. With regard to security of supply, Minister, when you are here: at the moment, as far as I am aware, there is no certainty about the supply security of peat. What do we do when it's cold? It's an impossible task when it's 30 degrees below zero and there's no energy. Light fuel oil was already incinerated in a few power plants last year. Is that what climate policy is? And then these climate policy calculators: You make climate emissions so that you stop some domestic energy — huge climate emissions when Russian trucks are rammed along Finnish roads. No one seems to be lowering those emissions to the atmosphere for the future. Should we not have a global climate policy to calculate all emissions, to take them into account? When domestic energy is not avoided, then we drive from Russia. Germany will soon end nuclear power, end coal, end lignite and replace it with Russian natural gas. Juice In time, the widowed sang a good song that Ah, Ah, Has the intellect left? Now it has, of course, left it behind if this is the way to make an energy policy in Europe in general and then to swear to the name of a European energy policy. You should start waking up to where this Finland is going. The rate of debt is such that as a good-sleeping man, I no longer sleep properly when I think about these things sometimes that this can be true. You know, you're just holding on to the fact that I'm still completely sane when this feels so bad. The mining industry is also a strategic ownership for us. And I'm surprised that there's such a conversation going on in this country that there shouldn't be mines, but electric cars have to be made. You have to make batteries, but you can't start mines. Then what on earth are we going to do and store that electricity? Do we use cat skins to rub the hood of the car to get this Tesla moving? [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u80	Now we are going back to the debate on the administrative sector. And next is the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and here both ministers are present. For both ministers, opening speeches, five minutes. — And will Minister Sarkkinen begin?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u81	Mr President! The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health plays a key role in promoting the objectives of social sustainability of the Government Programme. The Korona crisis put the infrastructure of our society to the test and proved that our Nordic welfare state is a sustainable and fair model to respond to unexpected crises. The security of income and high-quality social and health services provide well-being and trust that everyone is cared for and that they carry people and society also across crises. Mr President! A total of EUR 15.9 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 2022. It is EUR 1.9 billion less than in the 2021 budget itself. The fall in the level of appropriations is mainly due to the budgeting of EUR 1.7 billion of interest payments for the current year, which, once the interest rate situation has been eased, will not be expected to be necessary next year. It is also good to note that the budget proposal for the coming year already reflects the financing of the EU recovery and recovery plan, which is proposed to be allocated to the STM section for the total amount of EUR 134 million for next year. Mr President! To highlight some of the key elements of the STM budget proposal for my portfolio, I would like to draw attention to the whole: compensation for family and housing costs, basic income support and some services. An appropriation of EUR 4.5 billion is proposed. This appropriation is 9.8 million higher than in the current year, but it is worth noting that growth will remain very moderate despite the fact that increasing the number of study places in higher education and local nurse training will increase the cost of housing allowance by an estimated 24 million and Kela's operating expenditure will increase by nearly 10 million. The growth of the budget will be curbed above all by the fact that basic income support expenditure is expected to be EUR 56.5 million lower than in the current year. In a similar way, an appropriation of EUR 2.6 billion is proposed for unemployment benefit, which is EUR 300 million less than in 2021. The reduction is due to the estimated decrease in the number of unemployed and laid off. The previous examples reflect the fact that economic and employment developments have been brought to a favourable path following the interest rate and that the government's employment policy is working. Due to timely measures taken to curb the pandemic and the successful fiscal policy of the government and the recovery of the world economy, the interest rate is not leaving behind massive unemployment and poverty. In addition to the management of the interest-rate crisis, the government is also moving faster in terms of employment measures than the Government Programme's objective was recorded. Mr President! An amount of EUR 2.1 billion is proposed for a large package of health insurance, which is also lower than in the current year. The reduction of EUR 40 million in the budget is estimated to arise despite the fact that some new costs will also be borne by this entity and the exceptional costs of the interest rate will continue to be incurred. Last week we had a fruitful referral debate on the reform of family leave and the new family leave model is due to enter into force in August next year. The reform strengthens the implementation of the rights of the child and improves equality between parents and the equality of different family forms. The reform is estimated to have a cost impact of EUR 1 million in the year of entry into force and, from 2024 onwards, a cost impact of EUR 9 million on central government finances. As a budget law, I will present to Parliament a bill on the development of the assessment of the need for rehabilitation. The aim is to increase the number of checkpoints for the assessment of working capacity in the event of longer sick leave and thus speed up access to suitable rehabilitation services and reduce sick leave and disability pensions. The reform is expected to increase the cost of health insurance by EUR 250000 next year and the costs of municipalities by an estimated EUR 1 million. Although the interest rate is already showing promising signs of decline, we are prepared from health insurance to replace corona tests and vaccinations in private health care for the first half of next year. At the same time, travel refunds for vaccinations will continue. This is estimated to increase the cost of health insurance by EUR 5.9 million, of which the central government accounts for EUR 4.3 million. EUR 332.7 million will be proposed for next year to promote health and social welfare with the help of social welfare organisations. This appropriation is intended to cover a decrease of around EUR 30 million compared to this year, despite the fact that Veikkaus Oy’s reduced returns are being prepared to compensate for the various mechanisms in the administrative sector of STM for some EUR 145 million. Two final comments on the individual appropriations: An appropriation of EUR 4 million is proposed for measures under the pharmaceutical road map. With this appropriation, we will finally be able to move forward with a national list of medicines showing all medicines available to people at once and at the most up-to-date. I will also present to Parliament a bill proposing a EUR 200 defence component for military assistance. The cost impact of the change is somewhat modest of EUR 200,000, but the protective part is intended to facilitate the work of the military service during the holidays and thus the reform is also linked to the broad package of government employment measures. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u82	Minister Kiuru, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u83	Mr President! The total budget allocation for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is EUR 15.9 million. The main elements of the presentation are measures that directly support the well-being of Finns, the dismantling of the social and health care care care, rehabilitation and service debt, and speeding up access to care. In addition, the proposal continues to provide for the cost of a corona pandemic. These measures respond to treatment lines caused by corona pandemic and build a way out of the pandemic. As a whole, the proposal will continue to implement the Government Programme of Prime Minister Marin. The Government will continue to invest in the service system to support people's well-being and to secure the conditions for a good life for all. Solutions need to be made again to invest in adequate and timely care, as it is one of the most important welfare investments in society. The health and well-being of Finns will be supported by tightening the treatment guarantee in accordance with the Government Programme. The health guarantee in primary health care will be tightened so that in the future, in the event of an emergency, treatment will be available within one week of the assessment of the need for treatment. At present, the deadline is three months. In oral health care, the deadline for access to treatment will be increased to three months from the current six months. For the implementation of the management guarantee, a reserve of EUR 50 million will be made at this stage for the year 23 in addition to the funding provided in the budgetary plan. Financing in full will be decided in the context of the budgetary plan for 23 and 26. Simply, this reform supports everyone getting the treatment they need without undue delay. The tightening of the treatment guarantee also requires the dismantling of treatment lines caused by coronapandemia. Corona pandemic has behaved like a flood where not all effects appear immediately, but only after the water has landed. The pandemic will not be cut down houses or torn down trees from its roots, but it will leave us with a welfare debt that we need to fill. Therefore, in addition to the efforts made in the past, EUR 125 million will already be allocated to the EU Recovery and Recovery Plan (EURP) to dismantle social and health care, rehabilitation and service debts and speed up access to care. In addition, EUR 9 million will be allocated to support services for working capacity and measures to strengthen mental health and work capacity. Mr President! The Korona virus has put considerable pressure on the functioning of the service system. It is therefore essential that municipalities, joint municipal authorities and hospital districts have assurances that the costs of pandemic activities will be reimbursed. The Government has undertaken to reimburse all the direct costs associated with the corona, such as testing and increasing and connecting the testing capacity to quarantines, patient care, travel safety and vaccines. These will be fully covered as expenditure outside the spending limits between 21 and 23. The costs will be fully reimbursed as long as the disease situation and the implementation of the corona strategy so require. Therefore, interest is not left to municipalities and hospital districts to pay. The draft budget also provides for the implementation of the social security reform. The reform will enter into force and therefore a total of EUR 153 million is proposed for future investment projects to develop the service structure of social welfare and health care. The project will support the preparation of the restructuring of social welfare and health care and the improvement of access to services and the transfer of responsibility for organising next year through this appropriation. In addition, the appropriation will be allocated to the national mental health strategy, the well-functioning rehabilitation in social and health care, and the development of child and family services. The national data acquisition of social welfare and health care services will continue to develop, among other things, Kanta-palvelut and reform of information production. A total of EUR 36.6 million is proposed for this article, with an increase of EUR 6.2 million. It fits well at this time and with the IT and information security challenges of our time. Mr President! Finally, it is also worth mentioning that the draft budget also invests in knowledge and research. Central government funding for research at university level in health care and social work will be allocated EUR 25 million and state compensation for social welfare and health care units EUR 96 million for specialisation training for social welfare and health care personnel. By investing in research and knowledge, we also ensure the well-being of the future. Therefore, Mr President, in the budget, the government will secure resources to speed up access to treatment and to cover the costs of the corona virus while continuing to implement the Government Programme and, in particular, to invest in the well-being of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u84	Like this. — And now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button. — — — — And the debate will begin with the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u85	Mr President! I would like to thank the ministers for these presentations and in particular to raise a few points about this draft budget for the social and health sector. In fact, this nursing debt is one which Minister Kiuru raised here and which is a very serious issue. This pandemic has caused treatment queues to increase. We have been able to direct and direct resources to the treatment of a pandemic and have been exceptionally able to control in Finland that corona pandemic has not caused serious diseases and deaths in us as in many other countries. At the same time, however, we have a situation where many other sick people have not been treated, and that is what we have to invest in once and for all, and it is excellent that the government is going to do so. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u86	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u87	Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Kiuru about this treatment guarantee, which is designed to allow treatment within seven days. Does this mean that you can get to a doctor when you have treatment guarantee periods now specifically for a doctor, or does this mean that you have access to a health centre and at the same time no longer have these deadlines currently being monitored for access to a primary health care doctor and also for access to a specialist health care doctor? If this is the case, at the same time, they will be abandoned and will no longer be binding, then there will be serious setbacks in Finnish health care. I think a professional assessment is needed and they do a good job, but we should also have a doctor.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u88	Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u89	Mr President! I also agree with what Mr Salmon has said here, that the government has a good line on trying to take up the care debt, because it is often the case that when the economy rises and employment rises after it, then it is here on the side of the social recession that the aftermath of the recession is visible for a long time. And in this recession that has been caused by the corona — the recession is perhaps the wrong word, because it is not the economic recession in that way, but the other way it has come to us — in fact, mental health problems are those that are extremely strong, and especially young people. And I would like to ask how we can ensure that our young people and children receive these services in good time all over Finland, because it will help build the future. Except that it has a great economic significance, it has an infinite human significance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u90	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u91	Madam President! I would like to ask about the treatment guarantee: is it the case that the treatment guarantee means an evaluation of the treatment or that a person gets to a doctor within a week? In other words, answer the question whether the person gets to the nurse’s assessment of the treatment or to the doctor within a week. This is the most important thing we Finns expect to know: how quickly can we get to a doctor in the future? What is particularly worrying about this package is if funding is transferred there between 23 and 26, as the Minister said, so is there enough money? Secondly, I ask about the adequacy of home care. According to the budget book, more and more elderly people spend their time at home in their old age and need home services. Retirement homes disappear in Finland. How do you solve the equation that there's a lot of nurses there, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u92	Congressman Koponen, Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u93	Mr President! As a rehabilitation professional, it has warmed the heart to note that this government understands the value of access to timely care. Each of us understands that the help we have received before is better, and the problem will not be tomorrow’s worry. When we talk about a treatment guarantee, it is important to note that we are not talking about a nurse guarantee or just about access to a doctor. There are many different recipients in the field of social welfare and health care and everyone has a role to play in whether or not we can make the treatment guarantee a reality. High-quality counselling, direct reception and use of multi-professional skills are key to building a care guarantee. A person can break his back or his mind, sometimes both, and both must be helped in time. The functional disorder of the back does not heal with Burana but with physiotherapetic support and guidance. And getting the phone number of a psychiatric nurse in the doctor’s office will no longer help when the mind is tired and the thought is black. Multiprofessionalism is the cornerstone of the treatment guarantee, and greens require that the treatment guarantee also includes:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u94	Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u95	Madam President! Child welfare is always talking to us in this Chamber and, fortunately, now the government is investing in child protection and aftercare, which is extremely important. And it is important that the treatment guarantee now dismantles the care debt that has been incurred and also invests in mental health services. And we must continue to applaud this reform of family leave, which has finally been brought to Parliament and gone to committee. It increases family equality, equality and, in particular, the right of the child during both parents. This government has also begun to reform the social security system, and it is very important that it is completed. I would have asked the Minister about the poverty of families with children, which, unfortunately, has now increased during this corona: what is going to happen with the reform of social security, and how will the poverty of families with children be addressed? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u96	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u97	Värderade Talman! I budgetförslaget för 2022 uppmärksammas den mentala älsan med en nationalell förvaltningsövergripande strategist för psychisk älsa. Psykisk ohlsa är för tilfället den största orsaken till att Människan blir arbetsoförmögen och den kostar samhället billionaire årligen. Coronapandemins verkliga följder på den psychiska älsan har vi inte ännu sett.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u98	Madam President! I will take this question from Mr Rehn-Kive. We have a lot of nursing debt after the interest rate, but we already had it before the interest rate. And the speed with which patients get treatment and the kind of care and care they receive is absolutely central to the fact that we have enough medical staff. I would like to ask: what concrete measures has the government taken or about to take in this critical shortage of nurses? Of course, we hope that students will be able to work and acquire much more without interference. That's one way. Then I would see that we have a great deal of potential, especially for well-fitted representatives of medical staff who are already retired or retiring. That is why I would ask: what measures has the government taken to make it easier for this sector to be able to get quick help, for example in the form of part-time work, and that the employer also dares to take retired workers into work?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u99	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u100	Madam President! What's a treatment guarantee? First of all, in urgent treatment, we already have a medical guarantee. If someone has a heart attack or hits his leg with an axe, the treatment begins immediately. But in those diseases where it is not necessary to start immediately, we have a situation in which basic health care is completely unequal. There are municipalities where it is not possible to give reception time for several months at the moment. There are also municipalities where this works very well. A treatment guarantee for treatment-free treatment means that treatment will be evaluated on the same day, not within three days, but on the same day, and the patient will be able to receive treatment within one week, either in the doctor’s office when he needs a doctor or, as has become apparent here, in the case of non-necessary medical treatment, to the other professional. EUR 95 million will provide either 1.5 million more visits to doctors or, for example, one million visits to doctors and one million other staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u101	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u102	Mr President! Minister Kiuru, this proposal for a seven-day treatment guarantee is absolutely excellent, I will be frank with you. In the north, we are used to waiting three months to get there for an unhurried doctor’s appointment. Sometimes the times have not been at all, but have been frozen by the phone to wait for a doctor’s schedule to be clear. So the big problem for us has been the availability of doctors, and now it feels like they can't even get there with money. When many have already asked for more detailed information about this treatment guarantee, I look forward to those answers and instead ask about informal care: are you prepared to develop informal care and, for example, to harmonise the reimbursements of informal care and transfer them to Kela for example, so that the practice would become the same throughout the country and there would not be these differences between the different municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u103	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u104	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers — good reports on what will happen. I would ask Minister Kiuru when this week 26 senior officials from all over Finland took a stand and the concern is growing in the municipalities. Here, the fact sheet states: ‘The organisation and implementation of the services of the elderly population is becoming a national crisis. “ What are you going to answer these 26 from all over Finland who really know what they are talking about? The second point is that there has been a great deal of talk here about this treatment guarantee and care debt. It's a very good thing they're taking it. I was very pleased that you said in public last week that service vouchers will be used. This is what I'd like to ask if you're serious. I have also asked you this many times in written questions, and unfortunately that has been a little different. Are you guys serious?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u105	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u106	Madam President! Thank you both for the introductions. It is very gratifying that there are many necessary contributions to social and health care. Child welfare, as in other social sectors, is in need of skilled professionals. In the field, there has been a proposal to improve the work of a social worker to also qualify the socionomists who have completed a higher university of applied sciences degree. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: would it be possible to undertake an investigation into a possible change of law in which the qualification of a social worker as a legalised profession would be produced by a higher university of higher education or a higher university of applied sciences degree, including or in addition to which major studies or university studies corresponding to the major subject have been completed in social work?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u107	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u108	Madam President! This is how a nursing and service debt speaks during a corona pandemic. That repair work has been going on and will be going on for a long time. But it is also true that there was a service debt before the interest rate. One such unfortunate target is our most vulnerable children and young people, who are customers of child protection. Child welfare workers have worked for a long time with oversized customer numbers and have not been able to meet the workload they should have been able to respond to. The support for children has thus been insufficient. However, the human resources of social workers in child protection are now being tightened up in line with the Government Programme's records, and for this I would like to thank the government and the ministers very much. Now social workers are able to respond to the needs they have and to do their hard work, giving adequate support to children.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u109	Congressman Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u110	Mr President! There is a crisis in the care of the elderly, and the crisis is actually going to get worse at the beginning of next year, as Mr Risikko has just said. The elderly care professionals, the leaders of the care services for the elderly, have been making emergency calls, and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has also made a strong statement this week that care for the elderly will be in crisis. And, Minister Kiuru, a couple of years ago you promised that it would be taken care of, that it would be quickly put right, and now we are in a situation where we have more stringent criteria as such, but the actual situation in the field has not improved. On the contrary, it has actually deteriorated. And now, in this Chamber, there is a promise of more stringent regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u111	Again, I would like to remind Members of the one-minute deadline. — Next, Mr Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u112	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers and colleagues for your excellent contributions. Minister Kiuru described very well how long the damage caused by the corona can actually be and how only after the pandemic has passed will it really be seen how profound it has had for the well-being of people. On the one hand, care debts and, on the other hand, labour shortages at the same time are reflected in health care as queues and difficulties in accessing care, but also in the burden of staff. However, not all the penitent need for treatment is yet reflected in the statistics. Just on the mental health side, this need can only creep out when the crisis subsides, and that is why it is vital that we succeed in strengthening mental health services, lowering the threshold to seek and get help. I am particularly concerned about young students and families who have been hard at this time of the corona. We know that a vast number of young people and students suffer from loneliness, fatigue, even self - destruction. Many young people and families have not met when services have been reduced, and it is hard to imagine what the new
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u113	Congressman Heikkinen, Hannakaisa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u114	Madam President! If the perpetrator of the elderly crisis is sought in this house, then every Member of Parliament and minister of the 21st century will be guilty. This crisis has been known and seen at the end of the last millennium. I do not believe that the training of nurses alone, the increase in the number of doctors or work-related immigration can provide an answer to this problem. The only lasting way is for older people to remain functional for longer. As one year of long - term care costs closer to 100,000 than 50,000, everyone understands the importance of maintaining the ability of the elderly to function. That is why I would ask the ministers: what are you doing to ensure that our ageing people understand that by doing what every human being does?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u115	I will give two more replies, and then the ministers, three minutes for both of them. And now, representatives of Saramo and Niemi. — Representative Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Family leave reform is certainly one of the biggest structural reforms that will increase family welfare in decades, and I believe that it will go smoothly in this Chamber. Instead, this social reform, which will probably be a matter for the next Parliament, will certainly be more difficult to tick. As we know, reform means cutting for some, even though there are better, more enabling and not punitive, ways to encourage work and activity. But since this reform takes a lot of time, I wonder that these well-functioning protective parts and other systems, which you, Minister Sarkkinen and Minister Pekonen, have brought with them, have been very successful. Do you see that they could be learned from them even under normal conditions, and even during this Parliament, a variety of models could be introduced such as social security that are flexible and encourage people to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u117	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u118	Thank you, Madam President! I would have asked Mr Kiuru to be a little more specific now that there are tough debates in the various municipalities on future budgets. With satisfaction, I noticed when you mentioned that the interest rate costs will be reimbursed in full in the years 21 to 23. Have you yet made any plans for how this will be divided into these different years? Is it a third, a third and a third, or what is this idea of redistribution of compensation? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u119	And now the ministers. — First Minister Sarkkinen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u120	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and contributions. First of all, on the social security reform: This social security reform is a very broad package and it is a super-electional entity, which means that the goal will only be there during the next term of government and, as we know, we will be doing it parliamentaryly, and I hope that as broad a common view as possible on the need for social security reform and the next steps will be able to take. The aim of this period is to move forward with smaller partial reforms, which were already outlined in the Social Security Committee this autumn, such as the harmonisation of the concept of income and family in different benefits, which would make it easier for people to move between different benefits and would not have so many of these intervention situations. In addition, facilitating and simplifying application is an important project. On this coordination of work and social security: Indeed, this increase in the protective section has now been in place and will continue until the end of November as an interest rate measure, and now there is no prospect that it will continue, but I think it is important that this development of mediation and, therefore, the development of social security and incentives to work continue. And one step here is the linear model of disability pension, which is to be introduced into the Parliament next year, which will facilitate the work of people on disability pension, thereby encouraging employment and facilitating the situation. Family poverty with children: Poverty in families with children is clearly an important theme as part of this social security reform, and we are unfortunately aware that the number of families with children living in poverty has even increased over the last few years. The government has taken measures to facilitate poor families with children, such as reducing early childhood education fees and making secondary education free of charge, increasing basic security benefits, and in addition to these targeted family preference increases, such as a single parent increase. And, of course, it is important that this point of view is also included in this reform of social security. Then I will comment on this matter of mental health, and I am sure Minister Kiuru will continue to do so. But with regard to how it relates to working life, we know that mental health problems are at present the main cause of premature retirement, and it is unfortunately common among young people in particular. This is a major economic and human tragedy which we must try to address in many ways. We must strengthen and improve the access to treatment chains — Mr Kiuru will probably talk more about it — but we must also prevent the emergence of mental health problems. We must look at this society of ours: what is causing fatigue, mental health problems, how can we prevent them? And also on the labour market: how can we strengthen well-being at work, prevent problems and also bring low-threshold support to jobs there? And the government has a work-life mental health project launched for this very purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u121	Secretary Kiuru, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u122	Mr President! Now that we have three minutes, I will try to deal with some of these big themes here, but I will be happy to answer the questions of the representatives in the next few speeches. There were so many questions here. Mr Filatov spoke about this social sustainability gap, and I think this is the issue we need to take seriously. We in Parliament have a lot of discussion about the economic sustainability gap, but we often do not see how expensive the social sustainability gap will become for society. And in this regard we must also be able to make welfare contributions at this time. We already have an old care debt below us, and this pandemic is creating an increasing social sustainability deficit and must be tackled so that the overall sustainability of society and this idea of social sustainability will also be realised in the lives of the next generations. That is why I think it was important that we also have a debate here. Mr Häkkänen then asked how to reconcile all these needs. As Mrs Viljanen has already said and considered this to be one of the most important reforms, the dimension of child protection will improve. I myself regard it as one of the most significant changes in children's lives and well-being. If we cannot afford child welfare to be put in order now, then we can look at ourselves in the mirror as to why this matter has not been dealt with over the decades. This is very big and I think it is very important. He also highlighted the dimensions of the nurse’s dimensions and the care guarantee. This government is now demonstrating that these long-term social and health care-related carrying powers are being put in place, and I understand that they are also being opposed, but we are in the government programme that these are being carried through. And I understand they've been trying to resist these things. We remember that, for example, this whole debate on care for the elderly has also caused outrage in Parliament. I think Mr Heikkinen has made a very good speech in this Chamber just now. He specifically told us how long we have been trying to put things in order in this country in the care of the elderly. For the first time in the Government Programme, we have a real care measure for enhanced service housing, which has already been realised, but we are also coming to Parliament this autumn for improvements related to home care and family care. We will not be able to do everything during this term of government, but this should be a longer line in which these things will be put right. In 2011, we entered the regime, where the crisis of elderly services was already taking place, and then Minister Guzenina was put in a very difficult place in how to deal with it. When this reign began, it was this crisis in the service of the elderly that was on top of it. We will have to make changes from the perspective of working conditions, that people are able to work there, that we direct nurses to do nursing work and support services to support staff. These are the reforms that must be made. At the same time, there is a real shortage of staff, and I will be happy to talk about this shortly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u123	There will certainly be a lot of questions, but there is still plenty of time to intervene again and then we will continue to discuss this. — — — — Next up, Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u124	Madam President! First of all, thank the ministers for a well-managed corona. It is extremely important that social sustainability is now so strongly highlighted in this budget and that we allocate hundreds of millions of dollars to remedy this crisis. It is an important and good and human message from the government to the citizens and Finland. There has been a lot of talk here about this treatment guarantee, and I would like to emphasise in this speech how important and historic it is. We have an absurd number of people waiting for them to be admitted to the doctor, and this government now decrees that every person must have help — it may be a doctor, it may be a mental health service, it may be a specialist in the field, but the signal to the regions is that treatment must be given more quickly to all citizens. In my opinion, it is the kind of value that this government has — or the size of the staff or the money that we have all been put into improving care for the elderly. They have all been the contributions that the Coalition Party has been against for decades. I think it is important that we now take these.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u125	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u126	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to pay particular attention to a large and vulnerable group, namely the disabled. The sad fact is that people with disabilities are the most discriminated against in the world. Worldwide, around 15% of all people are disabled, so we are talking about a huge number of people who face discrimination every day. Many people might think that, at least in Finland, discrimination against people with disabilities would have been eliminated from our society. In reality, however, this is not the case. Discrimination is expressed in many ways, so there are a great many examples of what needs to be corrected. Accessibility needs to be further increased, the role of plain language needs to be strengthened and more young people with disabilities need to be given the opportunity to take up employment. If we are not prepared to invest enough in these, we will not be keeping everyone genuinely involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u127	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u128	Madam President! The Coalition Party has been in Finland to legislate on the Health Care Guarantee Act, and we support the development of its law so that every Finn can be admitted to treatment and that the law can be implemented. Let me ask you, Minister Kiuru: this proposal of yours does not lead to a reduction in access to the doctor, does it? We need multi-professional cooperation, but access to a doctor should not be undermined in the opinion of the Assembly. Does this proposal include the therapeutic guarantee you have promised in the form proposed in the citizens' initiative? You have said that it will accompany this bill to this Chamber. The maintenance debt must be corrected, but the care debt must also be corrected. The present government parties and you, Minister Kiuru, promised in the opposition to put the old people's services in order in an instant. My question is: where are your actions now that you are responsible? The situation in the care of the elderly and the shortage of nurses are described as catastrophic. A huge group of experts, as Mr Risikko has said here, have appealed to you in writing and, by means of a joint emergency call, raised the need for corrective measures and the fact that government action has even deepened this crisis of care for the elderly. This is a very serious situation. I ask you now: have you read?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u129	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u130	Madam President! First of all, I too would like to thank the ministers and the ministries for their good work in the historical and, hopefully, soon history of the corona era. It is extremely valuable that the government now in many ways put things in order for families with children, young people, the elderly and people with disabilities. But as we have heard, much remains to be done. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that over the next 15 years, a total of 200,000 new employees will be needed for the social services sector. With more training places, I would like to ask Mr Kiuru and also Minister Sarkkinen: how to keep the nurses in the sector and how to get them in training there? Minister Kiuru, you referred to this government proposal to improve services, especially for older people, but also to raise the home service of families with children to a subjective right and a separate article. How do you see this amendment improving the position of families with children? After all, we now have a situation where families with children are in a very unequal position in terms of access to the home service in terms of how they receive it,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u131	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u132	Mr President! Thank you, ministers, for the introductions. It is very important that the customer dimension of social workers in child protection is improved. It has been expected and demanded for a long time. The long-awaited reform of family leave will come into force and will improve equality in both families and working life. It's a very nice hand extension for baby families. It is also really great that the basic health care guarantee will be tightened so that in the future there will be no urgent treatment within seven days. I would like to ask about these projects for the development of social and health services, for which 132.8 million will be allocated and for which care and service debts will be discharged, care and care for the elderly will be improved, family care, home care and then the national mental health strategy will be prepared. How can these good projects be implemented? I would also like to ask about this availability of nurses, which many of us here have had to worry about. How will it be improved and access to mental health services also be secured?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u133	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u134	Mr President! According to a recent school health survey, anxiety experienced by young people has increased. In the school health survey, nearly one in three girls reported moderate or severe anxiety, which is truly worrying. Timely access to treatment is the key to treating mental disorders. It is therefore very important that decisions on the budget line now focus on speeding up access to treatment. The implementation of the care guarantee will significantly improve people’s well-being, as rapid access to treatment can prevent prolonged illness and prevent many problems. Timely care is also in the interest of society, because, as long as access to assistance is prolonged, the problems often multiply, costs increase and, for example, the risk of incapacity for work increases. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: now that a decision has been made to start this cross-administrative programme under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to ensure access to social and health care staff, how is this work?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u135	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u136	Madam President! The economy is growing, unemployment is falling. Everything is now going better, except for the situation of the Finnish low-income person seeking food from the bread line. It weakens every day. This budget book has approximately 1100 pages. There is only one word in it for the poor, and that is also in the development cooperation section. The word "food aid" has never been mentioned. The word "low income" is five times. This is the choice that this left-wing government has made. I never would have believed this when this parliamentary term started. For two years in a row, the Committee on Finance has called for this funding of food aid to be part of the budget for the associations which organise it. It's still not there. Last year, EUR 2 million of the so-called Christmas gift money was allocated to small-scale associations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u137	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u138	Madam President! Representative Berg raised a recent school health survey, and the results of this survey were absolutely shocking. In two years, the number of girls who have experienced sexual harassment has doubled, and according to the school health survey, the anxiety among girls in particular has increased. Physical integrity is the right of everyone, and, especially for children and young people, there should be emphasis on body peace. We must find ways to eradicate sexual harassment and harassment, and I would like to ask: what will be done about this? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u139	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u140	Mr President! Yes, insolence is at its peak in the ranks of the Coalition Party. The health and well-being of nurses has been under test for far too long, and this problem could have been dealt with already in the early 2010s.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u143	Congressman Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u144	Mr President! There are no questions at this stage but to the Minister as to how this will be done, as you have promised. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has sent an announcement that a national emergency will begin in the care of the elderly. The expert group has said that there is now a crisis situation in the care of the elderly. And that question I just asked... Guzenina, you've been falsifying the Convention's message. The message from me just now was that it is certainly worth tightening up the articles, but do you not see that they have not improved the status of care for the elderly in the field? And now you are promising an even stricter medical guarantee, which is all right in itself, but you must have the means, and that is what was asked. The Coalition Party has proposed financial means, the Coalition Party has presented good cooperation with private organisations and others. You have ideological barriers to these things. You do not have the means to do this, that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u145	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u146	Mr President! It has to be acknowledged that the care of the elderly does not in itself solve these problems of care for the elderly if we are not able to recruit the hands that care for them there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u149	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u150	Mr President! I have been sorry to see how little attention has been paid to this great reform of family leave, both among our politicians and in the wider public. This is a reform that many key equality organisations have been calling for for for decades. The fact is that in 2020, for example, mothers spent almost 90% of all family leave and the unequal distribution of care will then affect the position of women very much in life. This family leave reform is about promoting gender equality, but also, of course, about strengthening the status of the child and strengthening the status of fathers. Of course it is also the case that reform alone is not enough, but a lot of attitude is also needed. I would now like to ask both ministers how you will help to strengthen the position of fathers in services and to take them into account as equal parents, from that time on, from the baby's everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u151	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u152	Mr President! As has been said here, care for the elderly is now quite problematic, and it is, of course, due to a shortage of labour. What's it about? It's another thing. But we know that there are quite poor elderly people living at home, and I myself have been saying for years that they are too ill. But now there is a problem for the municipalities, which law they follow, and the minister will probably now give the open here specific instructions. When we have poor elderly people in home care, they enjoy the protection of the Constitution, which is a word that says: “Everyone who is not able to obtain security has the right to an unnecessary care. “ It comes directly from the Constitution. Then you, Madam Government, have set a staffing limit of 0.7 for enhanced service housing and long-term institutional care. Now give clear instructions to the municipalities that are in trouble, which law must be observed in the municipality: a constitution that supports the provision of adequate care and care for unfit elderly people in home care, or your human resources bill?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u153	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u154	Madam President! Two thanks to the government and the ministers. Intestinal cancer screenings are expanding in Finland. I made a bill about it. Thank you for making progress. My second bill was about making informal care easier for the worker, and now, apparently, with the reform of the family leave, this possibility will come. Thank you, too, for taking note of my bill. However, I would like to ask about the family leave reform: Do you see that the amount that a person can spend a year on informal care is sufficient? That was, if I remember correctly, five days. I'm still going back to the nurses. In 87 those jobs I started and for about 25 years that work I did. You're not supposed to say pay here. But the City of Helsinki, among other things, paid me, a young graduate, two additional age benefits. It was the carrot that left me with the city. So, with money, you can find nurses. The second, of course, is also the possibility of choice. I did the night job myself, because I just needed more money, and the extra ones are the ones who keep the nurse on the bread.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u155	Congressman Koponen Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u156	Mr President! Not everything always goes as planned, and there may be many reasons for this, but access to help is not always self-evident. As has been highlighted in many speeches, we face a major challenge, and the challenge is that we have a shortage of professionals in many different areas of social and health services. In recent months, each of us has had to read in the newspapers and in various news reports about how, in the worst case scenario, the lack of access to child protection services has led even to the death of a child or a young person — every case of this kind is always too much, none of it should happen — or, as a representative, Mr Tynkkynen made a good point, such as drowning in the network of services for disabled children and persons with disabilities. If a disabled child’s family is left without the help it needs, it can also lead to the service needs of child welfare. I would now like to ask the ministers: how does the government intend to promote the fact that we have enough professionals?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u157	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u158	Madam President! I recently came from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and there was talk of the social consequences, the kind of care debt, the inequalities that this corona crisis has caused across Europe. And I became even more convinced there that the Finnish Government's line is exactly right when compared with many other European countries, where we are still at the very beginning in correcting this nursing debt, nursing debt, service debt, mental health debt, all the debt that this crisis has caused. The government is doing the right thing, the basics. The social welfare reform will be carried out, after which access to treatment will be improved in order to allow people to receive timely treatment. Helping people with low incomes and thus repairing the damage that has been caused by this crisis. This is also fully in line with their international commitments, the European Charter of Social Rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u159	At this stage, there will be once again ministerial responses, and three minutes for both ministers. — Minister Sarkkinen will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u160	Mr President! Just as Mr Honkonen said, and I also believe that we have taken care of people's well-being and livelihood in the midst of this serious pandemic crisis, there has been a policy of wisdom, both humanly and economically, and it will also reduce the bill that this pandemic will bring to us in the future. For example, the government has made a number of temporary derogations to social security, which have been aimed at making people's livelihoods more flexible, faster and better in these exceptionally difficult times. But, Mr President, the government has taken concrete steps to improve the position of low-income and poor Finns. Actions are more important than words or words, and by works we are measured. We have raised small pensions. Basic security benefits, reduced social and health care customer fees, free of charge from secondary education, increased affordable rental housing production, reduced early childhood education fees, and supported people's employment and thus the ability to earn employment income and rise from poverty. But, Mr President, sexual harassment was raised and I thank you for bringing up this phenomenon, which is far too widespread and which is particularly difficult for many young people to face. It is important that we have a common social commitment to prevent and address sexual harassment. We have legislation which seeks to address this and, of course, legislation must always look at its needs for change, but in particular we need a commitment to address the phenomenon in the workplace, in schools, in organisations and, if it does become apparent, to address it and, in particular, to lower the threshold for reporting harassment. And this lowering of the threshold was what came up last week when with Minister Blomqvist we held a round table on the prevention of sexual harassment. But, Mr President, on the issue of family leave reform: Strengthening the role of fathers and equality in the use of family leave is one of the key objectives of the reform. This requires a change of attitude alongside this legislative change. Implementation is needed in workplaces, early childhood education, maternity and child health clinics, in order to be able to support families in making decisions and also to be able to report on the new system. In the context of this family leave reform, the worker will therefore be entitled to five days' unpaid family-care leave, and I believe that this is an important starting point, because more people will also have care responsibilities up there, and this reconciliation of care responsibilities and work can also be challenging when it comes to caring for elderly or working-age relatives. I believe that this is something that future governments will perhaps consider in future reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u161	And Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u162	Mr President! Let's deal with that treatment guarantee next. With regard to the treatment guarantee, quite a few had questions about these details, and in fact Mr Lindén has already answered them here, so you have taken the words out of my mouth, but the review is the mother of the studies. In other words, basic health care is now based on the assumption that a legalised health professional should be able to get rid of urgent care within seven days from the assessment of the need for treatment. Healthcare professionals should make an assessment of the need for treatment on the same day that the customer has contacted you. Therefore, the treatment event will then be carried out either at the reception or through technical equipment. We are also trying to increase the opportunities for the public sector to keep up with the private sector in the way in which this care event can be carried out in a variety of ways, including through electronic services, remote access or telephone calls. It's today. These instruments have been specifically earmarked for the ict reforms with a significant financial contribution. The care guarantee applies to non-emergency outpatient care in primary health care, including basic care for mental health and substance abuse disorders and outpatient care in student health care. Yes, this is very comprehensive. So this includes both mental and physical disorders. This is the government's choice of values. We asked a lot in the government programme that we should carry this out. This will not be easy, but now the content reform in Finland has led to the fact that when we started during this term of government, I was often told, sometimes in Parliament too, that this treatment guarantee will never be able to be fixed. At that time, about 43 per cent of municipalities and joint municipal authorities already implemented a care guarantee in seven days. Now, the reform of the content of social services has led to 64% of municipalities and joint municipal authorities already being able to provide a seven-day management guarantee. We need very diverse ways of using multi-professional skills to implement the care guarantee. I do not want to put the professional groups against each other, but it must not be possible for a person who needs a doctor to receive a medical guarantee to do so. In other words, I hope that the representatives will see that we are really investing now in getting the necessary care and the professional's task is to assess how the most tactful human condition is to be dealt with. And what is new in relation to this legislation, which dates back about 16 years, is that we are taking seriously the fact that it is not enough to have access to treatment. Yes, people need to be treated, and I was also very well talked about this by representatives. Access to treatment is extremely important, but getting treated saves economically
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u163	And Mr. Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u164	Mr President! We have received an important family leave reform for the House. It has become a lot of positive comments from all over the world. The reform fulfils the wishes of families and the long-term conditions set by the Centre for reform: home care allowance will remain, earnings-related family leave will be extended, flexibility will be increased and the possibility for families to decide on the use of the free will will be improved. The Coalition Party has often said that this government does not reform, but I think it is a question of these reforms being those that are not acceptable to the assembly for some reason. The purpose of the Coalition Party has been to continuously cut home care allowance against the wishes of families. Now home care allowance is maintained and families’ opportunities to keep free improve in many ways. Mr President! However, I would like to ask the ministers: drugs and drugs are increasingly causing problems both in the workplace and in homes, for example, so how does the government operate in order to reduce the use of drugs and reduce their harm?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u165	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u166	Mr President! When we receive such a distress call from senior service managers around Finland, I think the whole hall should wake up to it. We can impose stricter standards of home care or 24-hour care, but we should all understand that they alone do not correct this matter. No, no, no. There is now a need for more nurses and other measures. As Mr Heikkinen rightly said here, the aim should be to be able to do well at home and to be able to do well for a little longer, so that the need for a more intensive treatment could also be reduced, and in that way we could help older people to get better and to survive at home for a longer time. But, Mr President, I would like to ask Minister Sarkkinen: many freelancers in the creative sectors are doing short-term and shredded work and receive a significant share of their income from copyright compensation, which does not raise unemployment benefit, but is still being cut. Can you handle this reform? There's been a lot of talk about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u167	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u168	Mr President! To Mr Sarkkinen, I would like to comment on this five-day family-care leave, that it is indeed a good head start and that it is great that it comes to this. It is too short, but hopefully the next government will be able to extend it in the future. I would still ask Minister Kiuru about this human resources allocation for enhanced service housing. After all, the law now separates the actual care work and then this ministerial work, that is, cleaning, cooking, washing. It was thought that it could be managed by less educated people, thus opening up more time for the actual nursing work. I would like to ask whether it has been followed how this has happened, or whether we still have nurses whose working hours, a large part of which goes to these very non-hospital jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u169	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Many speeches have been made here, and I think that is important, thanks to the honourable Members, on the issue of family leave reform. As Mr Honkasalo said, it has been overlooked for some reason. But it is, above all, the child’s right to spend time with both parents and to establish an early attachment relationship with both parents. That's what this is all about. However, the aim of the legislation is also, of course, to improve the position of women in the labour market and to reduce the pay and pension gap, i.e. the long-term impact on promoting equality in employment and income. The objectives are good and the law itself is not enough, as has been well stated here. I would like to ask Minister Sarkkinen how the maternity clinics, how the workplaces, other actors can increase this attitude reform, that fathers take more responsibility, because I do not know any father who has spent time with young children on family leave that would have regretted it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u171	Ledamot Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u172	Värderade Talman! I regeringens budgetförslag satsas det glädjande mycket på förebyggande åtgärder. Med den preventiva social- och helsopolitiken stödjer vi inte bara medborgarnas vämående utan också sysselsättningsgradens ökning.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u173	Mr President! I just came from a prison in Vantaa to meet prisoners, and there I received one very important message to bring to this debate. A young prisoner said that if decision makers need to understand something, they will invest in children and young people. He took the example of the fact that we must do everything possible to prevent, for example, the spirals of children and young people's institutions, the fact that the child is changing the child protection unit in turn and learning to live in an institution instead of having a family and a close community to which to belong. When we invest in children and family services, we actually prevent human suffering but also economic problems on a scale of society. We will prevent us from having so many prisoners in prison in the future saying hello. That's why I'd ask the high-ranking ministers: What is the government going to do concretely now to promote this first child strategy in the history of Finland, which was completed last spring? So by what means will child and family services, for example, now be strengthened in this budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u174	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u175	Mr President! One of the more disturbing news this morning was that in just over ten years' time, Finland's population will turn into a clear decline. This demographic development threatens not only the foundations of our economy, but also our pension system. And in that sense, I think it is excellent that the government has been able to bring to Parliament a reform of family leave that is an improvement for all families. It does not weaken anyone's position, and it is helping to create Finland's most child-friendly country in the world. I think that the public opinion on how we view children and families also has a bearing on how our birth rate will evolve. And in this respect, the right decisions have now been made. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u176	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u177	Mr President! I would like to ask you again when we have not received an answer to this issue of treatment guarantee. Is it the case that the doctor’s follow-up is abandoned so that it is only considered that he can be admitted to a professional’s office in seven days? As Mr Lindén pointed out earlier, today, on the same day, it is necessary to assess whether the need for treatment is urgent or urgent, so that it is not a new issue. But it is significant if you no longer have access to a doctor. That is really going backwards in Finland's health care. [Aki Lindén’s interlude] I would also like to ask about these interest payments, which have been promised full compensation. When...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u180	And Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u181	Mr President! If we are faced with a great challenge, we must have many ways in which we are trying to resolve it. Legislation is important, funding is important, but in addition to it we often need — and I am referring specifically to our ageing, the challenges of care for the elderly — important development of working communities and — I dare also say out loud here — wage-related solutions. There's all the information that's come to me right now. Very major challenges include ict systems, which should make work easier, but which in fact take much more time off than before. There are many problems related to the management of the local work community, problems related to the organisation of work, problems related to the division of labour. This is an absolutely great challenge that we must be able to face, and it does not strike each other with legislation, funding and then with this in the municipalities and other workplaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u182	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u183	Mr President! I have done a couple of times with a bill on improving hospice care in Finland, and in 2018 the committee dealt with the euthanasia citizens' initiative. At that time, the committee made a joint statement stating that the working group of experts would undertake to examine the regulatory needs for good care, self-determination and hospice care and euthanasia at the end of life, and, if necessary, the Government would submit proposals for legislative changes to Parliament on the basis of the study. Now I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: at what stage is this survey work, and are there any specific entries in the legislation, for example, on improving hospice care and equalisation throughout Finland? We all know that there is still a great deal to be done in hospice care and that different practices prevail across Finland: among other things, there is a lack of hospice skills, education and care homes. In what way is this important issue in the Ministry progressing? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u184	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u185	Mr President! The crisis in the care of the elderly has been mentioned here in the Chamber, and it is really about big, even moral, issues, but the crisis has not started now, it has been going on for a long time. We have had to consider whether we can call ourselves a civilised state if the safety, nutrition or hygiene of the elderly are not in order, and this is both institutional care and home care. Recording an old-age care nurse’s appointment in the law is one very important correction. It is good that it has finally been done, but Sweden and Denmark, for example, are estimated to spend about 1.7 times more on care and care for the elderly in Finland. I think it is important to hear that, in this Chamber, for example, when the assembly has called for service vouchers and more private service providers, how can we see these commercial operators who also operate in the elderly and social services? How these dimensional fulfillments now and in public
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u186	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u187	Mr President! I would like to pick up on what Mr Häkkänen has said here that there is absolutely no objection to the good things that people want to take away, but our policy is to always think about how to do it. So now we feel that there are no means. The management of the services of the elderly has taken a stand this week, 26 people from around Finland have taken a position that we are in a crisis situation, and this emergency needs to be answered. That's what we're hoping for. Then the fact that I'm sure Mr. Kiuru and Mr. Guzenina will have a little bit of memory. At the time, 2011 was a proposal made under the leadership of the Coalition Party in the previous period of the Act on Elderly Services, which had a subjective right, a strong right to receive services, and with your veto responsibility it was watered down. It's worth remembering the facts and not until you tell me about them. If it had been done then we would be in a different situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u188	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u189	Mr President! In his own speech earlier, representative Heikkinen raised the issue of maintaining the ability of the elderly to function. It is humanly important and only sensible for the national economy. My question relates to the joint phase of a person’s life, where people get out of working life and retire. The Raahe Joint Municipal Authority for Wellbeing has carried out groundbreaking work for over 15 years by organising adult counselling centres for persons aged 65 and over. These have been very popular, and they have been of quality for the rest of their life when it has been possible to prevent, among other things, the onset of diabetes. Treatment of type two diabetes results in significant costs and human suffering. I would like to ask the ministers: could the adult counselling system become a legal and national practice? Such preventive work would increase quality years in the lives of older people and make clear savings in social and health spending.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u190	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u191	Mr President! It has been repeated many times here that care for the elderly is in crisis. I also asked here earlier what the concrete means are, how the government is trying to get more nurses in this sector. Indeed, as I have said, we have a lot of professionals, nurses and also substance abuse and mental health professionals who are using them in well-deserved retirement years, but I would see that there are a lot of professionals there who might be able to come quickly to help this sector for a while. My question is, have we thought about this? Have our well - fit retired professionals been called upon to participate in the voluntary work, to come to help? And when training places have been increased, have they really been increased sufficiently and decentralized? And here I am asking, in particular, about these assistant professionals, so that nurses can do the nursing work and then have enough hands to help them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u192	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u193	Mr President! To begin with, you have to wonder, where did the assembly come up with such an idea, that by speeding up this treatment guarantee, that the seventh day would get to the treatment, it would somehow weaken the doctor’s access. Yes, when the primary need is to get to a doctor, it also gets faster, but not every situation may be the best option for the patient or the customer to get to a doctor. It is also true that, if we do not have enough nurses, social and health experts, we will not solve all our problems alone, and we need to find a solution. I have to say that this is one element in how we can improve our working lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u194	And Mr. Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u195	Mr President! Prevention is most important from the point of view of social and health services. In terms of mental health and physical health, there will be no shortage of funding or social welfare reforms if, for example, mental health problems or people’s people’s ills cannot be dealt with more in advance. Likewise, of course, promoting the health and well-being of older people is crucial. I would like to ask the ministers: what concrete cooperation is under way and what is planned with other ministries for this prevention in relation to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health? I would like to return to my actual question just now. You haven't answered this yet. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the 25 municipalities have published a press release saying that, in practice, care for the elderly is going into crisis at the turn of the year — that is, the majority of the care units for the elderly are going into illegal state as a result of this regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u196	And now, Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u197	Mr President! There has been talk of increasing mental health problems and the need for prevention. Thank you, Mr Tynkkynen and Mr Koponen, for their important contributions to improving the conditions of people with disabilities — being excluded also causes mental health problems among them. Mental health problems cause inability to work and study, and they also exist among farmers. Thank you to the ministers. Care about the continuation of the farmer project. It examines the overall situation of the farmer and seeks ways to support the ability to cope, the challenges of life and enterprise and the economic problems. The people in the countryside feed each and every one of us. This is how they get endurance and guidance and therapy, and the results have been very positive. The project should be continued, and I ask the ministers: what else could the government do for a Finnish farmer?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u198	And now, Congressman Koponen, Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u199	Mr President! Family leave reform is an important act of equality that sees different families, recognises their existence and also helps different families to grow and experience that they are whole as themselves and just as they are. The reform will also bring the needed flexibility for the use of the free, which is of invaluable importance in many families, and it is great that this reform now also takes into account the families of family carers. In the context of the debate on the reform of the social security system, however, it was clear in the committee how weak the assessment of the impact of children has been in the legislative or decision-making processes. With regard to this administrative sector, I would like to thank the government for taking a new, significant and long-needed step in the implementation of the evaluation of the impact of the budget on children. This is a long-awaited and long-awaited step towards a more child-friendly Finland. I would have asked: how will child budgeting be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u200	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u201	Mr President! Here, just a moment ago, the ranks of the city centre were beautifully spoken of as child-friendly Finland, which I am sure we all want. However, it is your minister of responsibility who is cutting 20 million for the exercise of children and young people. It does not take this issue in the right direction and there is no preventative work that we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u202	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u203	Mr President! This issue, which Mr Koponen referred to above, is probably related to these financial problems of Mr Veikkaus. But back to the nursing debt, the medical guarantee, this big deal. Now, if we're being straight with each other, why are we doing this? I mean, these roots are a lot longer. The roots are that the reform of social security has not been achieved in time. Now this government will do it. It has not been possible in time to address the working conditions of carers, the situation of carers, the competitiveness of the sector in relation to other sectors in good time. The service system has not been in the condition it should have been, and in due course there have been very large cuts in central government shares, which have also removed the funding base of the municipalities from social welfare and health care. This is extraordinary what the Coalition Party is talking about. They are critical of all the decisions the government makes. In the previous parliamentary term, the focus has been mainly on increasing market share for private operators, when these basic issues should have been addressed, and their own solutions are still completely lacking. It would be nice to hear them at some point,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u204	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u205	Mr President! I understand they're calling for help from the coalition, but now you're on the board.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u208	Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u209	Mr President! The crisis in the care of the elderly is a reality, and if we cannot solve this acute crisis of care staff, then we will not be able to solve this problem of care for the elderly either. It's obvious. Personally, I am a little surprised at this argument against this human resources measure. At the moment, we have a minimum of 0.5 laws. At the turn of the year, 0.6 will take place, and here we are required to remove these scales because of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u213	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u214	Mr President! Just yesterday I received a message from a nurse — an internal and surgical nurse, also specialized in psychiatry. He's telling me about everyday problems in that department. He fears that there will be damage to the patient in connection with medication, because he is in a hurry, and he also complained about ethical stress and fatigue. How do you respond to ethical stress, which is commonplace in the care sector? Mr President! The social welfare reform is on the way, and welfare areas are due to start operating in 23. However, there are still a lot of open questions about information networks and electronic operating models, among other things. In what way do you ensure that there is sufficient funding, and is there some kind of emergency funding? The message has come from municipalities that the current funding is insufficient, so the price tag is still open in telecommunications.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u215	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u216	Mr President! Of course, a seven-day treatment guarantee is a good goal, but it will not happen unless measures are taken at the same time. All you have to do is go to the news headlines of this week or last week, so you can see that there is a shortage of nurses everywhere and it can take two to three months to get treatment even here in the capital region at the health centre. So, in this situation, more than just declarations are needed. One option, of course, is to consider which patients could be transferred from those queues, that those who really need medical help go to health centres. One option is, for example, to give pharmacies more powers to take simple measures, such as rapid PCR tests, such as these inflammatory tests, vaccinations, etc., so that people who do not necessarily need that medical treatment would be allowed to leave the queues. I would now like to ask you, Minister: how do you feel about this as we move forward with the reform of social security?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u217	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u218	Mr President! I have just asked whether the government is going to manage this small aid to help the low-income associations, EUR 2 million, for which the Committee on Finance has been calling for the Ministry to take over the matter for two years. I didn't get an answer, and I was a little surprised. This government spends EUR 500 million on various climate measures, on all kinds of future projects that are certainly good, but then on these acute little money like the police 30 million, on the legal protection of the entire judiciary 20 million — very small sums compared to this EUR 6.9 billion that is owed. One cannot escape the idea of whether these little things have been forgotten by the government when the eyes are so big that a small person is overlooked by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u219	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u220	Mr President! I will return to the important, expected and important reform of the family leave reform, which has become almost equal to the reform of social security, but that is how this reform is progressing. President! Fathers have been in a family conversation for far too long as a passenger. Now it's been addressed. The reform of family leave restores and supports fathers alongside children. This reform has indeed put the interests of children and the well-being of families at the centre. So equality has been achieved by increasing the share of fathers without cutting back on mothers — a very fine thing. Important home care support will also continue in the context of this reform in its former form. But I would like to ask Minister Sarkkinen: when the reform of the family leave has been completed in Parliament, how will the reform be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u221	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u222	Thank you, Mr President. The word 'prevention' has clearly been the most repeated in this week. It seems that the bigger and more difficult the problem,the easier it is to provide an If you had asked questions about mental health Yes, that is a good word, because there is a great deal of good work and savings to be made, both economically and humanly, if that is to happen. I have done the preventive work of the entire police career and I know that there are certain challenges. I would be very interested to hear what that word of prevention means from that box — or is it just a magic word to get the difficult things and the difficult questions settled? And I would also like to hear what you are really, concretely ready to do so that:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u223	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u224	Mr President! I am a little surprised that the Coalition Party has now awakened to the crisis of elderly services, since the rest of us have been aware of it throughout the 2000 to 1 year period. Many of us here are also municipal decision-makers, and they are very aware of how difficult it is, for example, in budgetary negotiations to fight for its funding. And many know, too, when you’ve had close relatives, what that everyday life of elderly services looks like. There is also a systematic shutdown of institutional care, which has led to the care of elderly people who are too ill at home. It is just as Mr Juvonen said that nurses are suffering from ethical stress. But the big question is also far too low a wage level, and it is of course something we are not going to solve here in Parliament, but it is good to note that it affects the attractiveness of the sector very much: if, in addition to suffering from stress and poor working conditions, the pay is still poor, then it is no wonder that the sector is not. This government has made
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u225	And now, Congressman Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u226	Mr President! That 6.9 billion is made up specifically of individual millions, individual targets, and that is why it is extraordinary that this budget week started with the fact that the Coalition Party and the Finns are demanding cuts, but now that we go to these major budget monuments, we just want more investment. All of a sudden, these surgeries aren't being brought up. I think it would be honest to say this now, [Pia Kauma and Sari Sarkomaa are requesting a reply] In the past, the debate has focused on cutting social security and, indeed, on the part of the social security system that is used by the most vulnerable young people. We know that, especially in large cities, even full-time work is not necessarily enough for young people to make a living. Wages are low, hours worked are irregular, when many people need state aid — housing or even income support — and these are precisely the items that have been on the table when considering cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u227	All right, let's give it to the assembly and the Finns. — Representative Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u228	Mr President! The Act on Elderly Services provided for at the initiative of the Coalition Party is very important. The Coalition Party wants every Finn to be able to count on good care, care and valuable treatment when he grows older. It is a great disappointment that the overall reform of the old-age service law, which was started with the coalition in the government together with the centre and other government parties, set clear targets for that law... Now that law, which has been prepared under your leadership, Mr Kiuru, has been completely blocked by experts, and I ask you now: are you promising to correct its legislation before Parliament so that it will also promote good service for the elderly? This is a government budget proposal. I understand there's been a lot of tough questions. Here, for example, Mr Suomela asked about alternative budgets. They're coming on December 1st. We make a balanced alternative, which, among other things, makes less debt, but also makes value choices, and also includes a therapeutic guarantee which unfortunately has not been able to accommodate this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u229	And now the floor is for Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u230	Mr President! Next week we will be spending the week for the elderly, and I hope that next week we will also remember these important debates and take these important issues forward, including in our home countries, demands that we invest in nurses. I know the business. I've been working there for over 25 years. Mr President! Persons residing illegally may stay in Finland without leaving the country even if they have received a negative decision to remain in the country. What do you do for them? It is not in anyone's interest that people staying illegally remain in Finland. On the other hand, Finland supports their stay here: according to the legislation, they have access to accommodation, food and essential medicines, and the costs of these are covered by Kela. I would like to ask you, ministers: How many negative decisions have been made so far since 2015 on these applications? And do you have any information on the number of persons currently residing illegally in Finland and the costs they have incurred for Kela when applying for these services,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u231	And now, Congressman Kempp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u232	Mr President! The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health deserves special thanks for major structural reforms, such as social and family leave reform. These are critical in order, for example, to respond to the shortage of nurses and to bring the economy to the right career. I would also like to thank you very much for your work on the eradication of poverty in families with children, and most importantly, the strategy for children. Minister Sarkkinen has already opened up the income angle for social security, so I will go directly to the reform of the operating culture. A week ago, I published a study to eliminate the poverty of families with children, which says that it is primarily a question of preventive support and a reform of the culture of action. Most people go to the clinic. However, the current discussion on the resources of health clinic nurses, the news of the poor attractiveness of the care sector and young business changers raise concerns. There must be enough time and peace to meet families so that professionals can do their job and also bring up issues. Eighty per cent of postpartum depression — among other things, this is something that can be addressed. The clinic professionals will be able to intervene as long as there is time. Minister, how are family centres and counselling centres to be resourced?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u233	And now there's no more time. — Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u234	Mr President! This parliamentary term has brought about structural reforms, reforms to the laws, and all this has been done in the shadow of the corona crisis. This has been an exceptionally difficult time, and despite this government track record is, you can say, a full ten. There's been a crisis as well as a crisis. [Department : 1st Party! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u235	Let's cut the speech. — Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u236	Mr President! Mental health problems are the main cause of disability, as Mr Sarkkinen rightly pointed out here. In the case of mental health problems in children and young people, access to treatment has been unclassified before the corona, and now it has become even worse during the corona crisis, and other groups have also joined. Despite these, the government is not prepared to introduce a therapeutic guarantee. That's $35 million a year. It is a drop in the ocean compared to these disability and sickness expenses, sickness benefits, which are caused by untreated mental health problems. Why have you not included this in the budget, Minister Kiuru? And another thing, access to substance abuse services: It's bad. And when the treatment guarantee, seven days, comes, will it also be available for substance abuse treatment in seven days, or rather on the same day,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u237	And now, Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u238	Mr President! My comment to Mrs Suomela is that the alternative budget will come from there, but we will not discuss it on this occasion, but we will now discuss the role of the social welfare and health administration. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the nurses' salary. I have a really helpless feeling here when it is said that we cannot do anything about that salary, but they are these social partners. I have the feeling that there is some kind of opposition or agreement in the municipalities that nurses’ salaries will not be increased. It seems to be some kind of principle issue, with which they bite themselves really hard on the ankle, because it takes away the nurses from us. I ask Minister Kiuru and Minister Sarkkinen: is there any way in which you, as value leaders, can make a difference to the fact that this attitude, which relates to the hiring of carers, would become more permissive? And, of course, the municipalities also need more money for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u239	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u240	Thank you, Mr President! I am beginning to worry whether the ministers will be able to answer these numerous questions that we have. For example, I have asked a question about these alternative qualifications for a social worker and also about this adult counselling centre. I hope that the President will give enough time to the ministers to give us answers to these many very good questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u241	Like this. Mr Mattila was meant to give enough time. — But before that, let us take Mr Semi. He hasn't asked his own question yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u242	Mr President! Of course, for that discussion, for that nurseship, it is important that there are enough nurses and that they are given and trained. As far as pay is concerned, pay is a labour market issue, and I think that the position of carers on the labour market will improve when they have now reached their own collective agreement, which is just negotiated by the carers' organisations, that they are not entirely dependent on an annex. I believe that there will be changes in this field, yet in the big area the issue and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities will then have to take a stand on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u243	Like this. — And now, ladies and gentlemen, Sarkkinen, Kiuru, please. — Minister Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u244	Mr President! Family leave reform is part of a child strategy policy aimed at building a family-friendly and child-friendly country in Finland. The reform is a major investment in families with children. This increase in flexibility is particularly important in this respect, but also in terms of strengthening equality and increasing equality between different families, as it were. The implementation of the reform of family leave is now under way as this legislative package moves forward, and this really requires cross-administrative action. It is important that the social partners, in particular, are strongly involved in this implementation and information so that this information and the change in attitudes goes through the workplace. In addition to that, the service system, both here on the social side and then on the educational and educational side, must be well informed and also support the change. However, this public debate is also very important for families to know what kind of reform is coming, and also for this discussion of equality of care between the sexes to be cut across the whole of society. In that sense, I personally find it regrettable that this major reform has hardly been reflected in the public debate. However, it is the instrument through which people and families learn about reforms and politics. Then there was the question of the abolition of copyright compensation and unemployment benefit. This issue and the issue are well-known, and it is possible to take new decisions on permanent expenditure increases in the spending limits debate because it requires a permanent increase in expenditure. Mr President! Then I would like to comment on this shortage of social workers from the point of view of the Government's decision to launch an intersectoral programme to respond to the shortage of social workers in the short and longer term. This is a cross-administrative question; this also relates to the portfolios of both our ministers, and then also to the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, and this applies to various professions, carers, then to psychologists, doctors, psychiatrists, social workers. This is a very wide-ranging issue, and here there are a number of aspects relating to education, specialisation, well-being at work, management, tools, working conditions, working conditions, division of labour, teamwork, development of work processes and the possibility of affecting their own work, the possibility of developing their own work, the possibility of participating in, for example, work shift planning in the workplace and thereby building and staying in the sector. So it was decided to launch this programme and now it is going to start. I hope there will also be concrete measures in various areas, but of course this is not a silver bullet for such a big and huge question. Then I'm gonna raise this to employment for seniors. We already have quite a few pensioners in the labour market, and especially in the social services sector. It is very valuable and necessary, and the government also wants to support this and encourage this, and now in the row it was decided, for example, to create or strengthen this kind of tax incentive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u245	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u246	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to answer the Members' questions. This is a huge amount of them. First of all, I would like to take a bigger theme which we have not yet addressed, which is the issue of Mr Berg and the concerns of many Members of Parliament about the protection of knowledge. In this regard, a colleague has already told us that in the budget debate we have received a record of the coordinating role of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, i.e. now, together with the actors in the sector and the ministries of colleagues, to launch a kind of strategic work aimed at finding a sustainable solution to the way in which these skills shortages in social and health care services will be dealt with. Our situation has been serious for the past decade. After all, in 2016, the Finnish National Board of Education carried out a study on the types of labour losses for the years 2017 to 35. The information was already serious at the time, and we are talking about the data from the last government term. At that time it was collected that the number of employed persons in health care was expected to increase by 8 percent and that the workforce would be eliminated by about 90,000 by 35 C.E. The replacement of healthcare personnel and the increase in the number of employed persons were estimated to require 105,000 new employees in health services alone in 2017-35. In a similar way, in social services, that need was estimated to be about 70,000 persons in those years. Then, when we look at the start-up increases of this term of government, it is precisely the fact that we need to have more training places. It's a and an o. This shortage of staff will only be solved if we are able to train more people in this field. And it has now been prioritised that there will be a significant increase in the number of social and health training places. On the other hand, it must also be said, as Mr Guzenina said earlier, that in the first half of 2010 a significant number of workers have moved to other sectors. It's a fact. Where do we get more attraction so that these people come back, or where do we get the attraction for those seeking in this field that they want to come here? We must now take seriously the fact that social and health services cannot think that the quality of care does not matter. Congressman Juvonen spoke of this ethical stress, fatigue. This is a serious question. You can see from the pandemic that our nurses are starting to disappear. This is a very serious question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u253	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. At the same time, the plenary session will be suspended and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u254	We shall now proceed to the second item of the order of business, which has been suspended at 1.01 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u255	Mr President! The Government aims to enable a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. In the draft budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for the coming year, we will boost sustainable growth. This means increasing investment in good management of employment and the availability of skilled labour, and in the development of the investment environment, innovation and low carbon. Employment growth will be supported in particular by improving the services of jobseekers to the Nordic level and improving the availability of labour. The Government is committed to raising the employment rate. Our aim has been to reach 80000 additional workers, and this objective is already being achieved by the decisions taken so far. In addition, by the end of the Government's term of office, we will take decisions with EUR 110 million for employment measures aimed at strengthening public finances. The situation in the labour market is more positive than it was in a long time. We are well on track towards an employment rate of up to 75%. Through our efforts to improve unemployment, we have supported this development, and a positive momentum in the global economy has stimulated favourable employment development. We have, of course, been tested by the Koronapandem, but we have done very well from the point of view of the economy and hence of employment, thanks also to these government measures, which have built confidence and faith in the future. At the end of August, there were 281,000 unemployed job seekers at the TE Offices, which is almost 50,000 fewer than one year ago. Most of this is explained by the reduction in the number of people laid off full-time. The direction is right and the outlook is much more positive than it was a year ago. However, it is true that the number of long-term unemployed, for example, has increased from one year ago, and we must implement the reforms we have decided on with determination to improve the situation. The reforms in employment care are as follows: we move to the Nordic model of employment services; we set up a special task group to promote the employment of part-time workers; we take care of the employment of young people; we invest in attracting skilled labour through smooth work-related immigration processes. Yes, this coming year 2022 will be an important year for action to improve employment. In the future, we will actively provide job seekers with more individualised services while investing in the development of digital services. Through the Nordic Employment Service model, which will be launched next year, the jobseeker will receive more services in the early stages of unemployment. According to the studies, it is the regular encounters of the job seeker, the active placement and the follow-up of the job seeker that shorten the periods of unemployment. The launch of the reform will take place through the financing measures of the Finnish Sustainable Growth Programme. We have reserved EUR 70 million for the programme for the operating expenditure of the TE Offices and EUR 13 million for the development of digitalisation. This is quite a bet. The operating expenditure of the TE Offices will increase from EUR 209 million to EUR 268 million. The additional funding is estimated to employ more staff to the TE Offices by nearly 1200 employees. With regard to the draft budget, we will present a proposal for a special task group to promote the employment of people capable of part-time work. The new company has the task of employing part-time workers in a challenging labour market situation. The company will target willing unemployed jobseekers whose chances of getting a suitable job have otherwise been significantly reduced due to, for example, illness or disability. Our goal is that people will eventually be permanently employed in an open labour market. The draft budget for next year includes a capitalisation of EUR 10 million for the company and a State subsidy of EUR 10 million to compensate for the reduced working capacity of part-time workers. No young person should be left alone. We are determined to continue our efforts to improve the employment of young people. The employment situation of young people has developed in a positive direction from one year ago. In August, there were nearly 10,000 fewer young unemployed job seekers under 25 years of age in the TE Offices than in the previous year. We're betting on this going on. Through the cabs, we offer young people a wide range of support on the one-stop shop principle. The Sustainable Growth Programme will be EUR 3 million for a municipal incentive model to hire social work and education professionals at the Guides. We will continue to finance short therapy sessions in the cockpits and we will establish this activity during the Government term. We will strengthen the conditions for business growth through easier recruitment of international experts. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u256	Thank you. — Minister Lintilä, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u257	Madam President! Successful management of the corona crisis and well-measured fiscal measures have made it possible for our economy to recover rapidly from the crisis, even in comparison with other countries. A year ago, when economic forecasts seemed gloomy, we have been able to bridge the bridge with the support of the decisions we made. The outlook is now brighter than ever since the spring of 2020. Last year, our gross domestic product dived by nearly 3 per cent. The Ministry of Finance predicts that this year we will close this gap and go a little further — next year, economic growth will fall by 3%. It is at grass roots level, in SMEs, that faith in a brighter future has been strengthened. In the latest SME barometer, more SMEs estimated that the economic cycle would improve within a year, and even six months ago the EK Investment Survey reported that the investment intentions of large companies have been significantly strengthened. These are positive and important messages about the recovery of our economy. In order to maintain a positive cycle, we need to enable business to operate in an environment that supports renewal, is pro-investment and strengthens the competitiveness of businesses. The aim must be to make Finland the most attractive investment environment. Ensuring the availability of skilled labour both at home and abroad is also part of this. In the 2022 budget, we will invest in research and product development, in the continuation of a determined growth policy and in the improvement of the investment environment and in the promotion of a green transition. In the next few years, we will make billion-dollar investments in the new industry through outside the Government Programme, enabling companies to invest in key sectors. These investments bring work and livelihood to different parts of the country. The focus of Finland’s sustainable growth programme is on renewal. This is reflected strongly in the draft budget for 2022. Business Finland is proposed to support research, development and innovation activities with a grant facility of EUR 573 million, with an increase of EUR 236 million compared to the actual budget of 21. The additional investments come from the funding of Finland’s sustainable growth programme. Research and development will also be promoted by improving the incentive for research cooperation in taxation from next year. The additional deduction is valid until the end of 2027. The favourable development of R & D funding towards the 4% target must also be ensured in the further years, without forgetting content and impact. The work of the parliamentary working group set up for this work is key. Our investment environment must be attractive. We invest EUR 4 million in the smoothness of permit processes, including through the Sustainable Growth Programme, by increasing the resources of the various licensing authorities in 22. Preparation of the investment acceleration band is progressing. In addition, in order to support investment, we will continue to have a double right of withdrawal of investments in machinery and equipment until the end of 25. We will accelerate sustainable growth by supporting investment in sustainable energy solutions and low-emission technologies. We invest in energy infrastructure investments, investments in new energy technologies, investments in low-carbon hydrogen, and the capture and exploitation of carbon dioxide and the electrification of industrial processes. An amount of EUR 546 million is proposed for the power to grant energy aid, which is as much as 453 million more than in the current year's budget. We will introduce support for the electrification of energy-intensive industries. The new aid will be more effective in encouraging carbon-neutral production and electrification of energy-intensive companies, taking into account cost competitiveness. The draft budget for next year includes an appropriation of EUR 87 million for aid for the electronicisation of enterprises. And finally, a few words about tourism. Before the corona pandemic, Finnish tourism grew rapidly and internationalized. The situation was completely changed by the measures taken to curb the pandemic and the spread of the pandemic. It is estimated that tourism consumption will fall by as much as 50% in the current year compared to the period before the interest rate. We target measures to stimulate tourism demand. It is absolutely necessary to open up our society and to encourage tourists to travel more actively. We strengthen the sustainable and digital growth of Finnish tourism as part of Finland’s sustainable growth programme. The additional effort in 22 will be EUR 7 million. The measures will contribute to the recovery of the tourism sector and to the demand for tourism. Regional flights [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u258	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u259	Mr President! It is true that the economy is growing now and employment with it, and that is definitely a positive thing. However, there is a great danger, and I also thought that I read from the ministers' speeches that there will be a lull in this feeling of well-being, although the economic forecasts say that growth will fade very quickly, will be short-lived, and that 2023 will start to stabilise at around 1%, that is to say very modest growth. And that is why I fear that this budget book does not contain enough elements that would specifically strengthen long-term sustainable growth. If, according to the government’s own programme, increasing research and innovation efforts is an effective means of accelerating economic growth, especially with a long tendon, then why is it not reflected in this budget book? I would like to ask the Minister: what happened at the very last point in time to forget the RK tax incentive that was specifically needed to attract private R & D investment, the genuine R & D incentive for businesses that was asked for? And then we'd miss the stakes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u260	Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u261	Madam President! Thank you to the ministers for a very good overview. This is a very happy thing that our employment rate has risen rapidly. To date, the Marin government has taken decisions on greater employment measures than the previous government has taken together throughout its period, and I personally did not see this kind of lulling to any good feeling, as Mrs Grahn-Laasonen, who spoke earlier, but, in fact, the government is still doing more employment measures during its term of office, so I believe that very good results will be achieved. I would like to thank you, Minister Haatainen, in particular for this recruitment support experiment, which is very welcome. As long as I remember on the ground, it has been said that hiring the first employee in the company should be easy, and now such an experiment under the leadership of Minister Haatainen is coming, and I believe that this recruitment support will encourage self-employed entrepreneurs to become employers and will also contribute to more employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u262	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u263	Madam President! Indeed, according to the Ministry of Finance, we are in the process of achieving our ambitious employment objectives, but the reduction of unemployment, the increase in employment and the resolution of the problems encountered by the government will continue to be of paramount importance in the work of the government. One response to labour shortages is labour-related immigration, but this alone is not enough. There is a shortage of workers in many areas, and I would like to speak personally, especially now after the interest rate, also about the debt of well-being at work, which is for the whole of Parliament to be aware of. The effective reform of family leave will improve equality in the labour market. The Nordic Employment Services model enables more individual support at an early stage and more intensively, which contributes to finding new jobs. Recruitment support, which the chairman of our committee has just mentioned, is also a good thing for the government. However, there is a real problem in many areas of work. The debt of well-being at work is very high. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u264	Congressman Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u265	Madam President! In the short term, our economic situation looks good, but really soon our growth will return to the old career. Structural reforms are needed, and the government has also done a great deal of them, and social reform and employment reforms are now the most important ones. Mr Pekonen has very much reviewed other measures. I really do believe and hope that we will all trust in the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance in this Chamber. For example, according to the Ministry's calculations, the government has made very significant employment measures and the employment rate target of 75% will be met. But it is quite clear that we need to go even higher, even though the 75% target is very high. In the Nordic countries, we are well behind in the employment rate of people aged over 55 in particular. My question is: what additional measures is the government planning in addition to the previous ones to increase the employment rate in this age group?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u266	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u267	Madam President! The Minister of Labour, Mr Haatainen, spoke about employment measures for people aged over 55, and even during the recent Question Time, he praised the fact that the retirement of the pension line was one of these measures. When the unemployed are taken away from the pension line, they are also deprived of the opportunity to increase the pension that a earnings-related pension would accumulate, but not through labour market support. So the pension intake is falling, the purchasing power of pensioners will be reduced when the pension pipeline is blocked, and it is a large pension cutter. According to SAK's calculations, the monthly pension for an unemployed 60-year-old average-paid person will be reduced by hundreds of euros and the impact may be higher than the folded index. This is what SAK said before Marin’s government invented a pension line cutter. Now things have changed since then — I don’t know why. If you think that an elderly working population can get to work, they are not really being paid at the moment. Now the government is going to increase work-related immigration. At the same time, the Government
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u268	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u269	Madam President! Thank you to the ministers for their good briefings and presentations. In this morning's session, when Mr Tuppurainen was in the debate, there was much of an energy policy which now, of course, is the core of this ministry. We need a lot of zero-emission electricity and heat, especially electricity, in terms of non-combustible heat production, increasing the value added of wood biomass, fossil-free industries such as steel production, low-carbon transport, and then, as Minister Lintilä has said, opportunities to export hydrogen, for example, this hydrogen economy. In other words, zero-emission electricity is one big, big condition for everything — both for our sustainable economy and for the success of climate change mitigation. I would now have asked: how to ensure that this does not become a bottleneck in this country and then ensure that, for example, regulation at EU level allows, supports and encourages investment in all low-emission electricity generation
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u270	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u271	Madam President! At the Section for Employment and the Economy, we started working on this budget a little bit, and it is of course important that, in this presentation by the Minister, these new openings to the employment of the part-time workers were brought up. But I would have liked the Minister now to clarify the way in which we will take care of it if these part-time workers go under such a company, while it still exercises its public authority and therefore, as you said, otherwise, 10 million are going into it as share capital and 10 million after that as employment aid. Who, then, will make these decisions as to which part-time worker receives this support, and with what criteria? And now, if this is combined with the fact that these employment services are about to be passed on to the municipalities in general, who will make those decisions as to when the person capable of part-time work will be considered to be covered by the employment services of this company? As such, I consider this initiative to be important,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u272	Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u276	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u277	Madam President! Around 8 million have been earmarked for world-class digitalisation in order to attract foreign experts to Finland. At the same time, employment measures directed at Finns, including municipal experimentation, suffer from persistent and serious problems with the information system Ura. Last Tuesday, Ura was stuck nationally for four hours. So we have a billion-dollar problem in our hands. The time for labour experts goes into red tape in vain, for ict problems, more managers will come. There is no solution to grass-roots and efficient processes, and the problem of matching is not solved here, and the Nordic model will not help if the basics are not in order. Well, I hear there's a problem with a system reform called the TEA, but it's late too, and it's cramping. When, Minister Haatainen, will you invest enough in world-class automation digitalisation to employ Finnish unemployed job seekers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u278	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u279	Mr President! First of all, the government has been talking a lot in recent days about the fact that there is a record investment boom. However, if you look at the latest VM review published on Monday, the investment outlook for next year and the following year is actually slower than it was in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Or do I misunderstand, Minister Lintilä, that we are now going to go down the road of slower investment growth this year, next year and the following year than it was in the last three years of Sipilä's government? When we talk about investments, more than one representative has taken a position on an important issue, namely the availability of electricity. As far as domestic work is concerned, I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: There were a lot of things here that marked support money, but at least I couldn't find a way to develop small nuclear heat, which is actually a bigger electricity issue than electric cars, because if it was heating,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u280	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u281	Madam President! Indeed, the growth prospects are looking good right now, and we will also be able to make a much better effort on this growth path than they seemed some time ago. And, of course, this is thanks above all for the good treatment of the corona, which all Finns have done together. But thanks are also due to the government and also to the ministers. Lintilä and Haatainen: Thank you for the efforts that helped companies and workers and laid off people through a difficult phase. Of course, this is not enough; we need to make growth permanent, and that is why we need more action. We need more investment, more work, more skilled labour, smooth licensing processes for both investment and people. I would also like to ask Minister Lintilä: what is the government doing in order to improve the efficiency and predictability of environmental authorisation — clear deadlines, the one-stop shop principle, compliance with pre-set limit values as a condition for authorisation and so on?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u282	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u283	Mr President! I am sure we all agree in this Chamber that Finland needs entrepreneurs. We need both small and medium-sized enterprises, but also those big companies, those locomotives that will then raise and help support those smaller companies to fly here, and internationalisation plays a major role in this. I would like to thank the government for taking steps already during this period to strengthen the international network and internationalisation, so that our experts can find those niches outside the borders of this country, and that is how Finnish companies can grow. In this respect, the government's decisions are also central to making it easier for experts to enter the country in order to allow companies to grow. I also welcome the efforts made to support small businesses, such as raising the limit on the reduction in household income or testing. However, success is not always dependent on an entrepreneur or on the number of companies themselves. That is why I would ask: How will this government ensure that it is possible to start again on a clean table in this country if it was not so profitable to try, or if it became an independent adversity? This is also the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u284	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u285	Mr President! In the autumn budget debate, the Marin government decided on a number of ways to improve employment. Stronger support for the unemployed and part-time workers and rapid action to respond to acute labour shortages are central to these measures. The government has made a clear choice of values. Instead of cutting unemployment security, support and services will be provided to help the unemployed get back to work as quickly as possible. The most significant improvement for the unemployed is the implementation of the Nordic model of employment services. In the new model, the jobseeker will receive individual support at an early stage and more closely, which will contribute to finding new work. The situation of the unemployed will also be improved by making the unemployment security consequences more reasonable and, for example, by assessing the job seeker’s ability to work at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u286	Then we'll take Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u287	Thank you, Mr President. The report on the budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy states: ‘Employment incentives must be taken into account for all participants in the labour market in order to avoid unemployment becoming a structural So what concrete steps has the government taken to remove the incentive traps?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u288	Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u289	Madam President! I would like to thank the government for investing in the employment of those who are able to work part-time and also for the salaries of the first employee. This is very important because we know that companies often have a rather large threshold for hiring their first employee. The extension of compulsory education will increase skills, and hopefully it will now also be able to solve the skills gap that has arisen in vocational education and training when the historic cuts were made in the last parliamentary term. Fortunately, this government is now correcting this imbalance. I would have asked about conversion training and the fact that, when this problem of matching is real, how are we going to catch up now, because we have unemployed people, but we do not have jobs and job seekers. And then I would like to thank Minister Lintilä in particular for providing the Pyhäjärvi mine with very important money for this investment in the pump plant. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u290	There will be two more speeches and then there will be ministers. Representatives Satonen and Hoskonen. — And Mr Satonen will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u291	Mr President! This problem of long-term unemployment growth, which was mentioned during Question Time: I will not go into it any further now, except, of course, that the earlier individual assistance can be given, the sooner it will be possible to move forward, but there should also be incentives, and this differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefits would certainly help this situation. But, Minister, I would like to ask about this work-related immigration. It is good that this D visa is now moving forward, but Finland does not just have to... — It needs these specialists, it needs start-ups, but not just them, but we also need experts in the care sector, buildings, services, industry, agriculture and forestry. We are very much in need of professional experts. And I ask you, when the Coalition Party has presented this good employer certificate, that is, that the employers with which things are in order get the workforce past the queue: is this thing moving forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u292	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u293	Madam President! Two questions. First of all, Minister Haatainen: Entrepreneurs have expressed serious concern that we have a huge shortage of skills, that skilled hands are just nowhere to be found in this country, say the metal industry, perhaps in its most typical form. At what point is the correction of this matter, I mean in relation to the paper war, because there is a certain need to accept labour imports from abroad, labour immigration to Finland? And the second question comes to Minister Lintilä: You presented here about a week ago about hydrogen, about making a hydrogen pipeline into Germany and starting to produce hydrogen. I was just looking on the Fingrid website at what a huge shortage we already have of electricity and a spot price, the price of the day, there are already more than 100 euros in that market, even though it is still a warm autumn. That means that if it comes to a hard winter, we ourselves will be in huge trouble. What on earth are we going to do with this electricity when we are about to lose capacity and the launch of the Olkiluoto 3 of the Eura River seems to be as impossible as two winters?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u294	And then the ministers' speeches, and for both of us three minutes. — And Minister Haatainen will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u295	Mr President! In three minutes it will be difficult to answer everyone, but let us take this issue of work-related immigration — at least Mrs Ranne and Mr Hoskonen raised it and Mr Satonen raised it. In other words, yes, in order to speed up work-related migration processes, digitalisation, digital services will be put in place. The representative, Mrs Ranne, was concerned about whether these resources would now be spent on this alone. Digital services are also generally developed in employment services. It has received funding from this recovery package and is undergoing a renewal of the Ura system. It is old, it is at its end and will be renewed as part of this Nordic model of employment services, i.e. digital services. Then why these digital services are being put in order for this work-related migration is linked to the fact that entrepreneurs want this process to work. From there comes the criticism that there are long processing times, old-fashioned ticketing systems make and last before you get a master here. And this is what Mr Satonen asked — this fast lane, a fast lane for two weeks. The aim is to have it by next summer. The D visa is being processed and digital services and legislative reforms will be carried out. I think we're gonna get this right. It also involves this certification of companies: those who are those who do their job could then be certified so that they do not have to examine each time whether this company is now one who is able to cope with wages and taxes. Then they asked about these part-time people and this new company. That law is now coming to Parliament. More specifically, this will probably be dealt with, but this company will not be entrusted with public authority tasks. It is shown by the Employment and Economic Development Offices of these people who must have a certified diagnosis or disability and they also evaluate in advance its suitability for that service. In fact, the representative, Mr Filatov, also raised these trials of municipalities. We're in the middle of a tight follow-up here. There will also be customer satisfaction measurements every three months, and then a university level study has also started this year, i.e. it will be monitored and the data will be used now for the full transfer to the municipalities. And the big things are certainly how the cooperation in the social welfare area is built on this, that we can keep all of these things running smoothly, rehabilitative work activities and then, for example, workshop activities. These must all be those with clear responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u296	Here's what we're gonna do. — And now Minister Lintilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u297	Madam President! Revolved answers. First of all, Grahn-Laasonen: There is, for example, 200 million additional funding for Business Finland. Then there is that research cooperation incentive, which I find interesting. It made such an interesting withdrawal that the right to deduct was raised to 150%, so I hope that it will be used very much. Representative Harjanne: I share the concern about that overregulation — or is it actually said about cross-regulation — which is happening on the EU side and at our national level. We are supposed to support environmentally friendly investments, but now that we have a little regulation coming from both sides and when these do not play together, the situation is that these companies consider that ‘the horizon is not clear, pre-investment’. I think this is a very serious matter. Representative Mykkänen: He did a very good job in Sipilä's government, and good investments were made. They are coming now, and you know very well that they are a little seasonal if there is a big investment — I was in an investment with a size of EUR 3 billion the other week, so that if there is one. But the most important thing is the continuity, the continuity of the work of the various governments, i.e. the predictability and, it is said, the soil is good for investment. We will all be responsible for that then. Small nuclear power plants: We are now bringing it up in the climate and energy strategy. There is no separate funding for this at the moment, but we will evaluate it, and I think it is one good tool for our energy tool package. Representative Kalli, clarification of the authorisation: The most important things. We have this unfortunate situation in Harjavalta, which was not in any way contributing to the attractiveness of our investment environment. We respect the tripartite doctrine of power, but something must be learned from this — certainly, but certainly also from the investor — namely the groundwork and its importance. Yes, the significance of what was in that Question Time — the construction of a fast track such as this, which has been agreed in the mid-term debate — will grow even further, precisely when we are engaged in the race for those big international investments. But then you have to be sure of that. So maybe this is a pass for the reference. Representative Virta, this promotion of entrepreneurship: already that atmosphere is important, the fact that a young person feels that he is all right when he is an entrepreneur, but of course he feels secure. At the end of Congressman Hoskonen, the hydrogen pipeline: We currently have wind power under construction or built or on the design table 1500 mills, about 21 terawatts. We do.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u298	We shall continue the debate so that we take up the speeches of the representatives again and then the Ministers will take the floor again. — — — — Next up, Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u299	Madam President! It's great that the government is working to strengthen the employment rate. We are in rather difficult situations: at the same time, our long-term unemployment is at a worrying level, but at the same time we are suffering from a very chronic shortage of labour, especially in the care and care sector, which has also been discussed today. But the government has done a tremendous amount of good work. There has been talk here of investments in education and research and work-related immigration, and this Nordic welfare model, which you, Minister, have again and again today, is important. The reform of wage subsidies, the extension of compulsory education, the reduction of early childhood education fees, the increase in the employment rate of people over the age of 55 — a number of important measures. Perhaps such a big policy change is that we are used to this kind of stick policy in recent years, that must be activated and punished if not applied for, and this government now activates by encouraging and supporting people in seeking work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u300	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u301	Mr President! Other revenue in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy reads 557.4 million, which is considerably more than last year when it said 311.9 million. This is a significant increase, most of which has come from the expansion of emissions trading and the increase in emission allowances prices, i.e. the increase in auction revenues. This is, in fact, a tax on industry, even though it could be called climate policy. Many other countries are partially returning this to businesses. Finland has stopped compensating companies for allowances, and it is becoming an electrification aid. However, this aid for electrification is going to be significantly lower than what companies pay for allowances. So I ask Minister Lintilä: how will we proceed?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u302	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u303	Mr President! I would have liked to see employment measures being taken now, especially for those who are hard to employ. For example, people aged over 55, especially men, do not seem to be properly employed. One thing that affects this is the threat of disability pension. Although this has been subject to legislative changes, it will still cost the last company quite a lot of money if it happens that such a slightly older person is hired and then will soon be on disability pension. The second question is that of immigrants. Their unemployment rate is more than twice as high as that of others, which means that this group would also need very specific measures. But, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of exports. So the question is that last season we had the objective of doubling exports of small and medium-sized enterprises, but unfortunately I have not seen such targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u304	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u305	Madam President! Thank you, ministers, for the introduction. Both of you, almost breathless, presented the good deeds of the government which have taken place and which will come next year. They will strengthen sustainable economic growth. There are a great many projects aimed at the new industry. And, of course, there is also a lot of industrial renewal outside the government programme, such as the battery cluster and so on. We can talk about the number of these projects in industrial billions. This rekrytuki experiment is an excellent thing. That's what I've been talking about myself in those squares and turbulents. But if I don't misremember, this was once tried, sometimes during the first government of Vanhanen, and then I think it stopped at the bureaucracy that was in the project itself. When, in any case, in your programme, or in our programme, there is a reduction in red tape, I hope that it will go as lightly as possible with red tape, so that it will also be useful to businesses. Of course, this business environment needs employees, and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u306	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u307	Madam President! Minister Lintilä, you well described the kind of regulatory storm that is going on here. In view of this energy sector in general, our group in Question Time asked, among other things, how this rapid increase in energy prices may affect the whole of Europe to stop this growth, not least as a very energy-intensive country. Now that this regulation is taking place at the same time, there is a little feeling here that who has the overall picture in hand. In that sense, I have been concerned when, after the budget debate, for example, it was said that next spring we will see whether these government climate measures are sufficient, what more needs to be done. However, we are becoming Fit for 55 and have our own regulation. Who believes that some of these regulatory frameworks may, in part, even work against each other, who is currently shepherding this whole? In my opinion, it would have made sense to wait for this report on energy and climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u308	Congressman Koponen, Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u309	Mr President! As has been said here, the content of work and working life is an important part of the life of every person who gets caught up in the work. In many ways it is one of the main enablers of comprehensive welfare, and this aspect is also essential to remember when it comes to employment measures. Strong individual support for job search and all joint stages is one of the key factors in employment. A long-awaited grasp of individual strengths is, among other things, this work capacity programme, supported by which more and more people with part-time skills get into work. It is particularly important that employers are also taken into account by the disability programme, because it is too often forgotten to support them in providing work. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important to recognise that when we talk about the employment of people with disabilities, we do not always talk about those who are able to work part-time. So I would have asked the Minister how the role of employers can be effectively supported and strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u310	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u311	Madam President! In fact, I would like to return to these energy issues and to the fact that we need a lot of energy for industry, so that we can move on to hydrogen or any economy in any form of industry. This requires a lot of electricity to change the energy to another form. Here we come to the question of how that energy can be stored and, as I understand it, wind power or solar energy cannot be stored in such an easy way, but will be stored in these synthetic fuels. And, in fact, this would be the Minister. For Lintilä, the question is: in what way has the future of these synthetic fuels been thought of as an alternative to guaranteeing industry an affordable supply of energy in Finland in the future, so that this carbon-neutral industry can be achieved?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u312	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u313	Madam President! This week, ministers have presented their own administrative sector in the budget for next year, and it has been in common that everyone has been able to tell us how much money will be invested in different good things next year, including the ministers in this debate. These investments are important. For example, I personally believe that improving active labour market policies will help people who are hard-to-work to find work. But this investment does not require a great deal of expertise when everything is made into debt. As a slogan for the Marin government, I think this would be the “after me” flood of Louis XV, the king of France. We should take away something and refrain from further unnecessary additions. Now I ask: why is the government improving unemployment security by EUR 25 million a year in connection with this so-called active model number two?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u314	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u315	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on employment and the reduction of unemployment. It has been a good debate when sometimes I feel that way after hearing that unemployment can be hated, but we should not hate the unemployed but encourage them. When we often compare the employment rate with the Nordic countries and their better and higher employment rates, then it is important and right to move from passive to active labour policy, as is now being done, like the other Nordic countries. Studies show that individual and efficient services shorten periods of unemployment and play a crucial role in our ability to tackle structural unemployment. But I am particularly pleased, like many here, to encourage those who are able to work part-time and to involve as many people as possible in working life. Persons with disabilities in particular work in Finland less often than in the rest of Europe,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u316	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u317	Mr President! The argument repeated by the opposition has been that the government has not taken any employment decisions. That's not what I'm saying. The budget debate responded to the acute labour shortages of companies by taking decisions on important measures to promote access to labour, such as facilitating work-related migration through the D visa, raising the income threshold for student support and a step-up in earnings for people over the age of 60. In the past, decisions have been taken on issues such as the abolition of the pension pipeline, the extension of compulsory education, the tightening of the job search obligation and the reform of employment services. Ladies and gentlemen, would you be more sure to confirm, as a guarantee, that this government has made a historic major package of employment reforms?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u318	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u319	Mr President! The Commission has said that it is considering excluding nuclear power from the taxonomy of sustainable financing, which would jeopardise affordable base power and smart emission reductions in Finland. Fortum has publicly stated that taxonomy is relevant for the continuation of Loviisa reactors. So it's just the two of us. As far as Loviisa is concerned, 10% of our country's electricity production. Unfortunately, the government has shown itself passively. I asked the climate minister yesterday without an answer and now I ask Lintilä. Is the government going to make an active contribution to the acceptance of nuclear power for taxonomy? Minister Hatainen asks about the D visa, which is a small but important step to make the arrival of foreign experts in Finland smoother. Did you consider in the preparation that experts could obtain a D visa as a kind of temporary residence permit before the actual residence permit?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u320	As far as my arithmetic is concerned, the following representatives have not yet received the first speech. They're Pieline, Lindén and Kivisaari. Let us take these speeches and then the ministers will reply again. — — — — Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u321	Madam President! Thank you. The bill went right. — Thank you, ministers, for the presentation. And as we saw in the presentation of both ministers, the government has taken a great deal of action and there is still to be done. But when you look at the employment situation in the regions, it does look bad, but then again it looks good in the sense that we already have a lack of skills. That is what we have to answer. The question of the employment of disabled people has been raised here before. I'd like to emphasize that. I know a disabled person who has received higher education, perhaps several, and he has not been employed. What could the government do now for a person like this who, however, has an education but does not have a job? So is this now up to the employer's attitude? And that's what's happening in the state administration, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u322	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u323	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Lintilä, you were one of the three ministers who signed last year a Government publication entitled ‘A strategy for the growth of research and innovation in the health sector’ — an extremely important document. The other signatories were then Minister of Science Saarikko and Minister of Basic Service Kiuru. In Finland, this exports of pharmaceutical and health technology exceeded EUR 2.5 billion in 2020. It has been on steady growth and its effectiveness is very important because it brings us a lot of research efforts here in Finland. I haven't gotten my hands on this year's statistics yet. I would have asked: what does the implementation of this growth strategy now look like?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u324	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u325	Mr President! One cannot overemphasize that jobs are created in companies, and the availability of labour is an integral part of this. No one will invest if the workforce is not available. Nobody hires extra people if they don't have one. Of course, the guarantee of growth is a skilled factor, and if there are no such factors, it is a rigidity of growth. Of course, one of the ways to respond to a lack of skills is through education. Similarly, decisions by the Budget Committee on fluent licensing practices for foreign experts are vital. However, I would like to ask you one more time, Minister. It's like I'm spelling it out for you. So what efforts does the government make especially to tackle the shortage of labour in the provinces? I know they've already been introduced, but what's the big picture with this growth rake?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u326	Like this. — And now ministers and no less than four minutes. — And Minister Haatainen will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u327	Mr President! This latest question by Mr Kivisaari on the shortage of labour in the regions and all regions: simply, the solution to this problem is the timeliness of skills and training and, in particular, training for the working life there, and then, of course, what levels of education this government has made for all levels. In the long term, secondary compulsory education will be visible in such a way that the labour force is provided with skills. But this idea of continuous learning, this programme, which is parliamentaryly prepared, is the big picture through which it will be answered. This centre of expertise for continuous learning and employment has been established within the Finnish National Board of Education and has intensified cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education. This is the kind of thing that I hope will continue and be strengthened in future government terms, because this competence is what comes first when you ask employers why you can't find employees. Then there is the acquisition of foreign labour, the facilitation of recruitment and assistance in these recruitments of employers, integration policy, all the related — they are the means and they are doing so. We are now working with employers in such a way that I will also go through these narrow areas by sector, i.e. which in each sector are dealt with together with employers and employees, which are the means and where the bottlenecks are. Mr Koponen then asked about the disability programme. There is also much work to be done on cooperation between employers — I understand that the question was related to what is being done with employers. There is a lot of cooperation with the STM, and it is very important that employers are involved in this, the skills of employers. In addition, we have also started to employ the public sector through public procurement. In other words, this programme, in cooperation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, is closely implemented and we are also seeking to employ people on the public side who cannot find a way to work. Representative Kauma asked about the impact of disability pensions and incentives. That is the section of the STM so that it is probably worth discussing in that section. Then here representatives of Viljanen and Nurminen and many others asked whether there were attitudes on the employer side, and Pierainen raised this point, that there is, for example, a disabled person, there is education and so on, but still there is no employment. It may be that we have in society such blind points. I am not going to blame anyone separately, but we all need to learn to see the potential of people, the abilities, so that we see what a person has the ability, knowledge and desire, and it is introduced and not viewed as missing. In other words, I am sure that this issue of availability of labour will also open our eyes a lot. Mr Lehto asked earlier about this 55 plus package. After all, there is a large package of security measures built alongside this, which means that the wage subsidy is built there so that you can return to unemployment benefit so that you do not fall on top of nothing. Then the maximum reduction in earnings will be increased from those over 60 years of age, and then part-time work solutions will be related to it and also to the division of work. So it was built with this kind of support programme, and that pipe does not leave now in the pipe, but it then gradually leaves from 23 onwards. We then asked about these training issues, especially Mr Hänninen asked about conversion training and so on. This idea of continuous learning is just the first thing that comes with this kind of smooth transitions first of all from work to work: when a job goes under, then we get it through conversion training. In these situations of sudden structural change, we use this very much and have had good experience. Even now in progress
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u328	Minister Lintilä, including just over four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u329	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, to Mr Junnila: first of all, it is good to have agreed on that compensation. So we can pay, depending on the emissions trading price, 150 million, of which 80 million are now earmarked for next year. That is actually the situation of the whole. Congressman Kauma asked about this double export. We still have the same goals and even more. Yes, we need to get more out of this Team Finland machine. And now it should be noted that, for example, the last Team Finland delegation – although it does not solve anything now but partly – took place in March last year, when we came from Detroit to sell batteries, and the next trip will take place next Sunday. So for a year and a half now there has been a little more serenity than that, but it still is. And yes, we have to do it the way we get... We have now had little to do with the fact that different border measures have done so that our sales crew may not have been as active in the world as it should have been. On the other hand, the world has not come because people have been afraid of different quarantines and similar things. Representative The question of Essayah was a very good question. In fact, yesterday, at the Competitiveness Council in Brussels, I made quite a sharp speech about this. And as I said to Mr Harjante earlier, this overregulation, which is here, comes from the fact that this whole thing is not being controlled, and this is clearly going to be the problem here. The clarification of the national regulation of EU regulation is, of course, the same as who is responsible for government – it has to be done, and it must certainly be promoted. It comes up very well, very well, for example in Fit for 55. Mr Malm then asked about energy storage and synthetic fuels. First of all, it must be said that in your region, LUT is doing an excellent job there, a very excellent job. And there are important steps in my view that we now included synthetic fuels in the distribution obligation. So these are the ones we're going to use to take it forward. And then there's another thing... Someone once said that where the EU, there is a problem, but I do not mean it now, but I say that this clarification of EU regulation at this point too, when this is a little new, would be very important. These sort of tackle good things, and this is the big problem. Representative to Vestman for taxonomy: Last week I attended a meeting of energy ministers in Slovenia. I had taxonomy discussions with Energy Commissioner Samson, I had taxonomy discussions with my Slovenian colleague, my colleague from the presidency, I went with the incoming French Minister for Energy, I went with my next Czech colleague, and they know very well our position. And taxonomy has always been the subject of communication and discussion. The fact that it is not done through you or through publicity does not mean that it is not done by the government. We are very active in this. Then to Mr Lindén on this growth strategy in the pharmaceutical sector. In my opinion, the fact that we got it moving was a good thing. That is an area of great interest. We've got a little bit of it in two places. Foreign pharmaceutical operators are very interested in investing in Finland, and on the other hand we have a willingness to export. And in a certain way I would see that a little of these two interests we need to be able to put together, and this is where Business Finland has done a very good job too. So, yes, this is a good wind in the sail.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u330	Thank you. — Representative Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u331	Mr President! As has already been pointed out in many speeches in this debate, the rise in the labour market has highlighted the problems of access to labour. There are now record numbers of open jobs: in July 21 was nearly 70,000, which is over 18,000 more than at the same time in 2019. In some sectors and regions, the availability of labour has become a barrier to full activity and enlargement. The availability of labour varies between sectors and within sectors depending on the regional location. I understand that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is launching a project aimed at finding sustainable solutions to meet the labour needs of different sectors in the short, medium and long term, taking into account regional differences. Could Mr Haatainen at this stage tell us a little bit about how this project is doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u332	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u333	Mr President! The Government's will is to increase the employment rate of the domestic labour force, and at the same time it is to increase work-related immigration. According to Matti Sarvimäki, work-related immigration can contribute to the employment of Finns, but it can also reduce the wages or employment of employees already in Finland. This has happened, among other things, in the construction sector. In some construction jobs, the amount of foreign labour is already so high that it is reflected in the income of the Finns previously employed in these jobs. Matti Sarvimäki, Deputy Professor of Economics at Aalto University, Senior Researcher at the State Economic Research Centre, also says: “NeFinnish workers who are able to do the same things as Finns do abroad, are competing for the same jobs. If such an employee is recruited abroad, it may reduce the wages or employment of employees already in Finland.” The government is now talking about ‘knowledgeful labour immigration’, but if you look at the worker’s residence permits issued for
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u334	And now the time has already been exceeded. — — — — Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u335	Mr President! For the welfare state of the future, one of the most important things is that growth continues to be hard. Fortunately, the confidence of SMEs and consumers is high at the moment and strong stimulus measures are actually driving growth, as is the break-down of the pressure on consumption after the interest rate. However, growth in creative industries has been slower in Finland than in other European countries before the corona, even though the audiovisual sector and the music industry have entered a clear growth career before the corona. There is a lot of potential in the creative sector in Finland, and the state really needs to ensure that it is supported by the operating environment. Intangible assets are very much involved and the government has good objectives in terms of the exploitation of intellectual property rights and the commercialisation of research results.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u336	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u337	Mr President! The Board of Directors decided to increase the income limit for students for the following year. This is a really great decision, thank you for that. Personally, I would like this change to remain permanent. Increasing income limits is important not only for students but also for employment, as many students work alongside studies, and it is great that this is encouraged. Work should never be punished, on the contrary, work should be profitable in all circumstances in this country. This decision will make it easier for students to work, and it is also important for those sectors that suffer from labour shortages. In many areas, students' input is invaluable, even if it should not replace a trained workforce. However, raising income limits will not solve this gap in these areas where there are no factors. In the past, I submitted an initiative for action to be launched by the government in order to respond to labour shortages, particularly in the social and health and early childhood education sectors. I would like to ask the ministers of value: what concrete measures is the government now taking to target employment measures so that they can be used in such a way as to ensure precisely the availability of labour to those sectors where this shortage of labour is the greatest?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u338	And Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u339	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the opportunity to continue this debate. In the event of a shortage of beneficiaries, it is essential that Finland strengthens the training and conversion of unemployed people. Education, research and enterprise R & D investment are key. Research and development will be promoted in the budget by introducing an additional reduction of 150 per cent from next year. It is proposed that EUR 15 million be authorised to support innovation in shipbuilding for new ship projects, and of course it should be thanked as quite Finnish in particular. I hope this will be visible in our area. The Government's starting point is that Finland is a carbon neutral and sustainable welfare society by 2035, and we know that a lot is happening in this area by many of our companies. Mr Lintilä: how will we succeed in getting even more new investments, jobs and exports in the next year, in relation to our expertise in this sector, which is enormous in different regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u340	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u341	Mr President! I'll be right back to this state ict jam. So the government has been telling us for a couple of years that it will be replaced by a new one, but it's not there, it's not there. When's the TEA coming? Then to Minister Lintilä: The Government hopes for a new shampoo from this green economy in Finland. However, there are a considerable number of growth companies in Finland, and it is worth asking whether it is currently targeted at business financing, when most of them go to large companies that could already finance their R & D activities. How is this green shampoo forged when, for example, Climate Fund Oy, which has hundreds of millions of capital and up to 14 people with high wages, has made only two investments? Well, according to the information I've received, the company's investment strategy is so strict, complex, employing, it's certainly not a moss builder. How do you intend to improve the adequate risk tolerance and long-term financing of innovative business start-ups so that we can actually get more real growth companies here in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u342	And Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u343	Mr President! On taxonomy, I'd say. My question really was whether the government is actively involved in getting nuclear power inside the taxonomy. In fact, I did not doubt whether you, Minister Lintilä, would be working on this. The question is whether the government is united in this matter and whether this has been raised in such a way as to be a high priority in our EU policy, that it will also be influenced, for example, by the Prime Minister. The question of the government's passive nature arises, for example, from the fact that Finland did not participate last spring in a letter from seven Member States to the Commission, where, under French leadership, nuclear power was required as part of the taxonomy of sustainable financing. Then I would have asked about the reform of the regulatory framework for nuclear energy legislation, which is important, among other things, for harnessing small nuclear power. In other words, the pregnancy of regulation is one possible barrier to harnessing small nuclear power. Where are we going?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u344	And Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u345	Mr President! New jobs are created in growth-oriented companies, and for the balanced development of the whole country, it would be good to have these companies in different parts of Finland. Of course, growth-oriented companies are assisted by R & D investments and also by public capital investment. I therefore hope from this parliamentary task force that it will become a good toolbox for this research effort, so that growth can be achieved. This budget also includes a mandate of 3 million for the SME Growth Acceleration Programme, which aims at export-driven growth also for SMEs. When you just mentioned that foreign trade trip as the first holiday, do we have enough at the moment, it is said, these export locomotives that could take their wings over smaller SMEs and make such joint clusters in these foreign acquisitions and activities, what is being exported?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u346	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u347	Mr President! I agree with Mr Malmi's good withdrawal from the importance of synthetic fuels, but they emphasise the need for zero-emission electricity. Of course, energy reserves cannot be replaced by zero-emission energy production. Tki is an important source of growth and prosperity. It has not only direct investment but also a wider environment and conditions. It requires that we have training in order — well, it is another ministry — that we have a skilled workforce — a lot of talk about it — that we have incentives to invest, but also that we have a competitive environment in which you do innovation as a company enables us to gain a competitive advantage, to manage, to find space in the market. I would have been interested to ask what it looks like in the eyes of the ministers: would it still be worth investing in the fact that we have a market that works for companies of all sizes and in all sectors in such a way that competition works effectively? And perhaps in this context, the news of the day on the EU's regional development funds: how to monitor their effectiveness and their real renewal and creation and effective use of this kind of money? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u348	Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u349	Mr President! I would like to thank you again for this Nordic model of employment services, because this EUR 70 million investment is truly significant. I would also like to stress and thank you for the importance of this. We currently have these employment services under-resourced in Finland compared to the other Nordic countries. If we are talking about a few thousand, much more than ten thousand workers are spoken of in Sweden — a little comparison, of course, of what is counted there. But the fact is that our resources are very small, and this is an important contribution in the sense that now that a person is unemployed, he gets the support and help and advice that what that path is back to working life. In that sense, I see that all the euro that is now being channelled here is extremely important. I would also like to thank you for these permanent pilots of the municipal experiment. We have had good experiences in Pirkanmaa in particular, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u350	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u351	Mr President! A total of 475.6 million are proposed to support RD activities, and new financing decisions may then be made on this item up to 572.5 million, which at this stage will probably make sense when we are looking for growth. However, 66 million of this appropriation and 234 million of the mandate will be financed through the Recovery Instrument, which means that funds have already been earmarked for the identified targets in accordance with Finland's Recovery Plan. It is quite a huge sum, but then this section of the report is very, very weakly presented, essentially at the title level for which it is being used, that is, much depends on trust in the institutions. However, with a total of EUR 0.5 billion, which will create growth and jobs in the future, could the Minister: Lintilä gives examples a little more concrete than in this section of the budget book where this money actually goes and is planned to go with these
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u352	Like this. — Mr Kalli, and then the ministers will have a brief closing statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u353	Thank you, Mr President. As this debate also shows, the promotion of employment and the reduction of unemployment is a multidimensional and demanding entity which does not have a single silver bullet to solve this whole, but perhaps could be summed up in such a trim of employment. The term energy trilemma is certainly familiar to Minister Lintilä, perhaps many others, but employment could also be summed up in such trilem. In other words, at least willingness to work, ability to work and know-how — i.e. willingness to work, motivation to seek and receive work — is needed, for example, the fact that taking work is always worthwhile; the ability to work, that is, health, well-being and well-being; and the knowledge that has been talked about today. And I would like to ask Mr Haatainen, as it were, how this budget book responds to the three important dimensions of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u354	Like this. — And now Minister Haatainen, just over a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u355	Mr President! The question was raised here about this training and availability of labour and how to respond to it — or, in fact, how to respond to it. It came up on a number of issues here. This is what we in the Ministry are now preparing a completely separate project in which we are now seeking sectoral information on what these bottlenecks are and what the labour needs are. And in these sectoral discussions we will also go through with both employers and employees — with the social partners — what they think would be the means to respond to this. And it is also sought that all together then look for those solutions and are active on this issue. So let us put all the resources into working together to resolve this and, of course, the government on its own side can also be involved in it. These preliminary discussions have already taken place with this sector and with the construction sector, and all sectors will be wadeded through. This brings together this kind of national project also with the social partners. I will be running the steering group itself, which will then gather this information. We already have a lot of sector-specific information. It has been acquired by various parties, but it must be assembled, squeezed and compacted, and it must then also enable the fins and ideas that are found there. There was also a question here about the Climate Fund, which I am responsible for. There's two investments made. There's new ones coming. It has started well, and this Climate Fund does not, of course, finance or support all Finnish growth enterprise activities. It has its own instruments. They'll be on Minister Lintilä's side then. There were still questions. Representative Nurminen raised this trial of municipalities, and that we go into a permanent arrangement and the whole big change that we are about to make here. The government is now making a major change in employment policy, a change in the way we view employment services. Until now, they have been in such a bad state and a little like a stepchild, and now they are being strengthened. This is partly due to the fact that we have been able to study the fact that it is worth investing in employment services. They are part of this range of services for the welfare society. The more we face here, the labour market changes — the green transition, the transition to digitalisation, the new skills needs — so all this cries out after that such structural systematic change is also made. And at the same time, we'll take them closer, that's where the boys are. Here comes the big responsibility of the municipalities to take over this task. The municipalities then have knowledge services, there is education, there is immigration policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u356	Like this. — And now Minister Lintilä, more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u357	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as regards the creative sectors for Mr Kosonen: In fact, I have now put together a table of creative industries like this. It has creative sectors from different sectors, and its purpose is actually to go through the situation of the creative industries, that they would, for example, be financially in the same situation as, could you say, this kind of traditional business. If you currently have a creative industry, even music, a company, your balance sheet is relatively light. It's kind of hard to get funding. And it doesn't matter if we're in design, design or so on. So we are now going to go over the fact that there is a clear financial palette for them, one that would enable them to operate. Representative Taimela asked about new investments, and I have to say that your angle is quite good and the threats that have been made have been prevented there, and yes I think and I am sure that it is good to feed the good. However, in a certain way you have the cluster there, and here I have said several times that the investment ground, the environment must be such that those companies feel that this country, this region. After all, companies will make a market-driven decision when they first choose Finland, where they will do it, and it will then assess employment situations, labour supply and so on, depending on the case. Then, Mr Wrist: this green transition. Is it a shampoo? — Yes, it is quite a key opportunity at the moment, because I can say that already during the last period, when I made export promotion trips in this same role, Finland was most interested in energy expertise, waste management and education. And when I collected, or in practice Business Finland collects these delegations there, the idea was, here I am referring to Mr Pirttilahti's comment and question, that we generally tried to build it in such a way that it was a clear engine company and then there were companies that were a little bit like the same hose. So we got the ideal results by selling the total packages, and I remember well, for example, that I had such a small company as a four-man software company that made applications for a Finnish, large-scale energy company,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u360	Here, thank you. — And now we will move on to the general debate again. — Mr Multala, Mr Multala is absent. — — — — But Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u361	Mr President! Our job is to create the most child-friendly and family-friendly country in the world from this country, where it is good to go to school, study, work and try, have the desire, the ability and the strength to work and act with an entrepreneurial attitude. It is great that next year a Nordic model of employment services will be introduced in Finland. In the future, the unemployed will receive better individual support for their job search. When the employment services move to the municipality, everyone who helps is better known there and can help the work to the side. In order to promote the employment of people capable of part-time work, the intermediary company is also a great step. People with disabilities can better find genuine, suitable work for them. I've had disabled workers at my previous job. The job worked well when a suitable task was found and given adequate guidance and guidance to the work. Mr President! A well-being family is an important growth base for responsible living and working life. Reconciling work and family helps parents to support the growth of children and young people. Amongst the first parties, the Centre put forward the reform of family leave. A number of important improvements to family leave were already made during the last parliamentary term. Now we are implementing an overall reform of family leave, in which the wishes of families are fulfilled and, among other things, home care support is maintained. Pay-related family leave increases, flexibility increases, and the possibility for families themselves to decide on the use of the leave is improved. It is a question of values, of family appreciation, of reconciling work and family, not so much of employment policy. Of course, flexibility facilitates reconciliation between work and family, which can have a positive impact on employment and return to work. Family leave reform is a major improvement in family benefits. It must now be clearly communicated to future fathers and mothers in order to detect and introduce the flexibility involved. We take important steps in building a family-friendly and entrepreneurial Finland. Mr President! Education and education are the cornerstones of our country's success. Its success is also directly reflected in the increase in well-being and vitality. When the operating environment is predictable on the part of the experts, companies venture to invest in Finland and Finland. According to the Education Policy Report, in the future less than 70 per cent of new jobs will require higher education skills. The aim is therefore that at least 50% of 25-34-year-olds, i.e. half, should have higher education. This will require us to have more starting places for higher education, which are on the way. During this term of government, we have received 10,000 new starting places for higher education institutions, and they are well placed in different parts of Finland. They should be targeted at areas where there is a lack of knowledge to prevent growth, innovation and development, but also the implementation of basic services. I welcome the allocation of EUR 1.15 million for labour market training leading to a university degree. I hope that's how we get new people to work. Good education and continuous learning for the whole population will be the basis for our survival in the future. In the post-Rorona care we now need lifelong learning and continuous updating of skills. It also keeps our company in a wave of development and growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u362	Thank you. — And Mr Aittakumpu, Mr Aittakumpu, absent. — Representative Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u363	Mr President! Timely access to treatment is the key to treating mental disorders. It is therefore very important that the decisions of the Budget Committee focus on, among other things, the dismantling of the social and health care, rehabilitation and service debt and speeding up access to care. Our current welfare model, which is based on a high employment rate, can no longer withstand the social impact of weakened mental health in the long term. We cannot afford to lose individuals on disability pension or long periods of sickness benefit at the current rate. We need early intervention and care models for working life and, more generally, effective and effective management of mental disorders. The good mental health of the working-age population strengthens economic growth, as it is a prerequisite for many of the qualities required in working life, such as adaptability, new learning, creativity, problem-solving and interaction skills. Mr President! Mental health disorders are today the main cause of disability pensions. In 2018, more than half of disability pensions are mental health-related and more than one third of new disability pensions are mental health-related. The number of mental disability pensions for persons under 30 has doubled in the 2000s. Sickness allowance periods paid due to mental disorders have become more common rapidly. In 2018, 31 per cent of sickness allowance was due to mental health and behavioural disorders. Of course, the effects of mental health are not limited to economic factors, but mental disorders represent a major public health challenge. It is therefore also important to ensure the mental health of those who are outside the labour market. According to THL’s recent school health survey, the anxiety experienced by young people has increased and loneliness is also increasingly being affected. In the school health survey, nearly one in three girls reported moderate or severe anxiety. This is really worrying. The sooner help can be given to mental disorders, the smaller are both the individual’s difficulties and the cost to society. The promotion of mental health is researchedly impressive. It is estimated that on average one euro invested in the promotion of mental health will return to society five times as much. With the new treatment guarantee proposed by the government, emergency care would be available in the next seven days, as the limit is currently three months. The budget under discussion now decides on the financing of the management guarantee. The draft budget enables the implementation of the care guarantee within the planned timeframe and shows the commitment of the Marin Government to implement the seven-day care guarantee. The functions of the welfare state must also be developed in the middle of the pandemic year, and the dismantling of care and care debts must be at the centre of post-coronapandemic care. This is part of the socially, economically and ecologically sustainable policy that the Marin Government is committed to implementing. The Social Democrats want to ensure that people get the care they need at the right time without waiting in line for months. The implementation of the care guarantee will significantly improve people’s well-being, as rapid access to treatment can prevent prolonged illness and prevent many problems. Timely care is also in the interest of society, as the problems are often multiplied, costs are increased and, for example, the risk of incapacity for work increases. Promoting the care guarantee continues the policy of the Marin Government, which focuses on facilitating people’s everyday lives and improving services. Mr President! The shortage of trained medical personnel is alarming in Finland. The time for interest has further weakened the situation, and unfortunately we can already talk about a crisis of some degree. The traction and appeal of the Sote personnel must be improved quickly before it is too late. It is very important that the government has decided to launch an intersectoral programme under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to ensure the availability of social and health care staff. However, that is not enough. Measures to ensure the adequacy of medical staff should definitely be prepared together with all parties involved, and they should be initiated immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u364	Congressman Honkonen, Congressman Honkonen is gone. Mr Kauma, Mr Kauuma is also absent. Ledamot Löfström, Löfström Borta. Congressman Kettunen, even Congressman Kettunen is gone. — Representative Kiviranta can be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u365	Mr President! In this referral debate, I have not yet touched on tax policy at all and I intend to do so in general. The government will continue to pursue a consistent tax policy that will support the recovery of the economy and thus help the country to rise from the corona pit. In accordance with the Government Programme, an index check is carried out on income tax in order not to increase taxation as a result of an increase in the price or earnings level. The scales are subject to a 3% inflation check across the board and are also subject to revisions to the reduction in labour income and to the basic reduction in municipal taxation. For over 60-year-olds, a step-up reduction in labour income is laid down. It should take time to prepare for this until 2023. The maximum amount of household and nursing and nursing work will be increased from EUR 2250 to EUR 3,500 and the compensation rate for the VAT-based compensation for work will be increased from 40% to 60% in this respect. This is a two-year experiment between 2022 and 2023. In terms of wages, too, this percentage will be raised from 15% to 30%. In connection with the abandonment of fossil fuels, especially in heating, the household allowance will also be increased to EUR 3500 and the corresponding percentage increases will be made, which will be valid for the years 2022 to 2027. In addition, of course, direct subsidies are available for the disposal of fossil fuels in heating. Fuel taxes will not be increased. This applies to both transport and heating taxes. The government also made a very good decision to maintain the current refund of excise duties on fuel oil and electricity used in agriculture. This is the issue of agricultural incomes, it was agreed on in rural tobacco in 2005. If this excise duty had been abolished, it would have meant a reduction of about 10% in net agricultural income. The income threshold for agricultural abandonment aid will be permanently abolished. The double right of withdrawal of machinery, equipment and equipment will be extended for the years 2024 to 2025. This already applies to the years 2020 to 2023 and to a very broad range of business sectors, including agriculture. Instead of the current two and a half terawatt hours, the Government set 4 terawatt hours as the target for the use of biogas. The achievement of this objective will be based on the implementation of the national biogas programme and will require substantial investment. The current production of biogas is about 0.7 TWh, of which only about 10% is agricultural. Mr President! The possibility for forest funds to use forest reduction through co-forests will be restricted from the beginning of next year. And the special provision is that the interest on the joint forest acquisition debt will be explicitly deductible from the beginning of next year. Many people have thought that this is the case, of course, that joint forest shares cannot be different from those of other forest assets. I think this provision is a clarification of the legal situation, and the fact that there has been some confusion at all is a strange thing. As far back as the beginning of 93, a decision was made at the initiative of the Tax Administration not to distribute income to shareholders because it was cumbersome.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u366	Yes, thank you. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u367	Mr President! On behalf of domestic energy, I too dare to speak after the excellent speech by Mr Kiviranta. I am really concerned about what is happening in Finnish energy policy. We have now recently outsourced this domestic energy supply to the care of foreign countries. I am talking about that peat decision that will cause the problem next winter that we will run out of electricity from this country. So, as we all know, electricity is also produced in the combined heating of dwellings with CHP production. It produces 1800 megas of electricity for the national grid during the hardest days of freezing. And when it is about to go away, now that the peat is being hated again, we ourselves are causing ourselves the problem of running out of electricity. Throughout the autumn, I have followed this electricity price in Nord Pool, this joint stock exchange. It has been running at its best, i.e. at its worst, around EUR 150. And we must remember that the prices you see there are tax-free prices and there are no electricity distribution costs yet, which means that it is much more expensive. And if we run out of electricity... You will remember that last winter, for example, in Sweden, paper machines were shut down when electricity cost so much that it was no longer worth making paper with those roofs. And the same applies to the metal industry, which is entirely dependent on the price of electricity. At the moment, we have the serious situation that the reactor of Olkiluoto 3, the Olkiluoto 3 of Eurajoki, is still... I do not know where it is now, but I am slowly beginning to lose hope of whether it will ever start and whether it will become the most expensive monument of industry in the world. Let's hope he gets started. He'll be happy to go tomorrow. But what is of great concern is that the situation of domestic energy in relation to forestry is very serious. I have felt very ill because we do not want to understand that the fate of this domestic energy production is linked specifically to the use of forest energy. Then the peat comes into it to achieve maximum power for both heating and electricity generation. And then the third is the biogas and other new energy sources mentioned by the great, competent representative Kiviranta that Finnish soil makes possible: that is what the government has invested in, and that is a very good thing. There's a certain amount of biogas coming. But I am tired of understanding the way of thinking that exists in Europe. Take that Germany as an example when it is so familiar to us all as a partner, a trading partner and many others. Germany is now shutting down nuclear power production. Then it will stop energy production with coal and lignite and will be replaced by Russian natural gas. In my head, Mr President, there is no room for a climate policy and an increase in the use of fossils. Finland goes on the same track. We do not have much of a choice when these domestic energies are slowly being driven down by this means and resorting to pure Russian energy, i.e. wood chips, and some peat comes from there. I wonder what's getting better in this world. And what bothers me a little bit in this debate is that we are talking about reducing emissions from the climate when we stop using peat. We have increased emissions enormously, and no expert has ever splattered his ear. I haven't seen Sitra's experts giving presentations on the streets and markets, driving Russian trucks along the Finnish roads, burning black smoke rises from the end of the exhaust pipe, driving a chip from Kostamus directly to Oulu. At least there are similar trucks on Lapland's roads, and the entire Ilomants Route 6 is occupied by Russian trucks. What kind of climate policy is this? It's for fools. And in some way even fools are offended that they are likened to this kind of procedure, which we ourselves have done. I'm a little confused about what we're doing. I would be happy to see that we value Finnish work, leaving the money in Finland. Now we're paying all that energy money directly to the Russians. And I'm sure the Russians, as a trading nation, can add one plus one. In other words, when the whole of Finland is forced to buy, it certainly affects the price of energy. And we are already paying almost 2.5 billion housing allowances. Now that a huge heat bill is added to it next winter, certainly when the next budget is made, there will be a figure of 3 billion here that the housing allowance will have to be increased to cover all other costs. After all, it would be good if this house, too, gradually began to reflect on the Finnish work and the Finnish enterprise. You know, lately, I've been a little short of that lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u368	Like this. — And Mr Kalli, and then we will move on to Minister Paatero's subjects.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u369	Mr President! This draft budget is actually summed up in one word, 'growth'. It shows in all ways that it has been sought to build up growth in mind. It now seems that growth forecasts for the near future are very good, but it is important, as has also become clear in the recent debate, to take measures to make growth permanent, not only to the delight of the next few years. Well, for growth to be permanent, we obviously need both demand and supply for work. And if I start by thinking a little about that demand for work, which is looking good right now, even up to a serious shortage of labour — we are sure to all know the problem of matching in our own province — then there are some important things there that will contribute to the fact that the demand for work will continue to be strong. Perhaps the most important thing is that the operating environment is perceived to be stable and predictable and that companies have a long-term view of what is going to happen. Then companies will dare to invest, take risks and employ. Of course, this issue is also strongly linked to EU regulation and the debate that has just taken place with Minister Lintilä. He well described that there may also be risks that EU regulation, when it is implemented here in the country of origin, can also contribute to kicking the ankles with its growth if it is not wisely built. And this is something in which we must be very awake and also be prepared to recognise and defend our own national interests in order to maintain a good environment here. Let me take one example, for example, with regard to this Fit for 55 package. It is important that the bioeconomy is well and will continue to grow here, and it cannot be that we have to make U-turns. And, for example, now that the Renewable Energy Directive is being opened, there are certain threats and challenges that we must now be able to deal with and tackle properly. Well, then, of course, we must have a competitive operating environment compared to the control countries and other competitors. There is, of course, the whole package of taxation, which Mr Kiviranta has just talked about very comprehensively, but also business subsidies and, for example, good transport and telecommunications connections. With regard to taxation, I would like to take the example of this fall in the electricity tax on industry, which has already been made by the government in the past and which is a very important factor affecting competitiveness, and the possibility of double depreciation, for example. As far as subsidies are concerned, for example, this support for electrification is also very important for Finnish industry, and this research cooperation incentive and its increase has its own meaning, or at least can have its own meaning, and I hope that companies will take it up. Well, with regard to transport investments, this government has made significant investments in the development of the transport network, and it is worth continuing to do so. Perhaps the most important thing there has been this increase in funding for basic infrastructure management by 300 million years, and that is something that must be maintained in the future, by future governments — and, rather, by continuing to increase it, as agreed by the Transport 12 paper, rather than vice versa. There is also a need for fast online connections throughout Finland and, fortunately, support is now being given to the construction of telecommunications connections, for example, light fibre, and, among other things, this EU recovery instrument is being mobilised. That too is extremely important. Well, then there is this supply side of the job that I was trying to sum up in that debut under the Tri Lemmat term for this type of employment. I made it up in my own head just now, and I'm sorry, it's not an official term, but it's an indication that if a person is to be employed, he has to have not only the will to work but also the ability to work and the ability to know how to work. I would hope that this debate will be able to focus on this whole, because each of these three dimensions is just as important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u370	Yes, thank you. - And now, Minister Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u371	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! In the development of central government, we have also ensured that the basic funding of the agencies and institutions is in order under the circumstances of the corona. In the context of economic recovery, it has also been necessary for state personnel to be operational and not to be dismissed or laid off. At the same time, for example, additional funding has been provided to the Treasury to enable it to manage and manage the allocation of cost support and its organisation for companies. Similarly, regional government agencies still play a major role in managing corona risk. The reform of central government and public administration as a whole has been the subject of a separate public administration strategy, the implementation of which is currently under way, and funding has now been made available for next year. There are a few pieces of this. In particular, it is good that it is done together with the municipalities and also that flexible, multi-stational work is promoted, among other things, at shared remote workplaces, and this is also being tried out with regard to customer service, so that the first pilots will start next year. Joint service points between different agencies and municipalities and new electronic distance services mean bringing services closer to people. At the same time, the use and mobility of farms will be improved, bringing emission reductions and savings. After the interest rate, the transition to a new normal allows us to speed this up. These changes will free up premises, but investment is also needed for new needs. For this more systematic use of facilities, the investment mandate of the Senate Group's businesses will be increased by 220 million next year to a maximum of EUR 700 million, in particular the Defence Forces and the rest of the security sector. The second is digitalisation, where Finland is one of the leading countries in Europe. Maintaining this position requires constant work on our part. We're in a good place, but we can't stay here. On this point, the budget for promoting digitality has been secured, which, perhaps I would say, is precisely what is needed to move these critical projects forward. And here are a few examples: The first is the digitisation of public administration services, which brings us efficiency benefits, and at the same time the services are more easily accessible regardless of time and geographical location. Digital support is becoming more and more stable and we are better able to help people with e-services. This is important for the whole of Finland. On the other hand, we are building a new digital identity, which will provide a more equal and smooth way to identify ourselves when dealing with public and private services. The project will ensure that personal ID numbers do not run out, while at the same time ensuring that these issues can be properly handled electronically, so that we also facilitate work-related immigration. I would also like to draw attention to the third amending budget which has already been discussed in Parliament, which provided the Digi and Population Information Office with additional resources for the dismantling of congestion so that we can reach reasonable processing times. Then the municipalities. Finnish municipalities have been taken care of during the corona. The Government has wanted to ensure that the municipalities’ ability to function remains — through municipalities it is easier to live — so that basic services can be provided. As a result, municipalities have been reimbursed and will be fully compensated for the costs of the interest rate. The central government share of basic municipal services will fall next year, but for the most part this is a technical change, as the central government shares in euros will increase by nearly EUR 300 million. It should also be remembered that this current government has promised and implemented 100% compensation for new and expanding tasks. This is a new principle. For next year, this amount will be EUR 116 million. Local government finances have also been strengthened and strengthened in the construction of well-being areas so that changes in municipalities in 23 would be manageable. Hopefully, spending pressures for many municipalities will be eased as these costs of care services due to ageing then remain in the welfare areas. As far as welfare areas are concerned, we are investing in temporary funding for this: already this year there were 15 million, next year 47 million in building it and raising it to its feet. At the same time, there will be own funding, especially for the ict side. And next year's budget shows a large amount of 880 million, which is two weeks' funding for welfare areas from the 23rd budget, but is already paid for this year so that the welfare areas have at least the buffer to pay salaries on 1 January 23. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u372	Thank you. — And if there are willing debators among the representatives, there is now a chance. — Representative Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u373	Mr President! I would like to thank the Government and Minister Paatero for making this choice of values at the beginning of the government's term, for the government's willingness to support municipalities and to enable municipalities to invest in these vital basic services. This promise has also remained during this corona crisis. It is a tremendous achievement, and I believe that the emptiness of this hall this evening also shows that the government has actually succeeded in this very important promise, and it has also been seen in Finnish everyday life: schools have run, teachers have been able to meet their students and provide support, help, teaching during the corona period, and social workers have been able to focus on this important work during the crisis, so thank you Minister Paatero very much for that promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u374	Congressman Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u375	Mr President! I would like to continue with these thanks, as has been said above, that this government has been very committed to this safeguarding of the operating conditions of the municipalities and has been very successful in doing so, especially in these challenging corona conditions. Municipalities have played a very central role in the fact that in Finland at all, this corona has been so well combated and yet, at all times, it has been maintained that our services work. We have been able to produce things remotely and with new ways of working. All the municipalities have done a tremendous amount of work on it. It was a pleasure to hear the Minister's presentation on these e-service development projects as well. They are all very important because they provide the flexibility to make things work out in time and such bottlenecks and problems can be dismantled and resources can be allocated in a sensible way. It is a good thing that this work continues here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u376	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u377	Mr President! I was prepared to continue the TEM debate on this energy intensity, in fact, but now that the minister is from the local government, let us continue with it. There is no thanks here at this stage, as Mr Heinäluoma did, but there are questions for that too. Perhaps less attention has been paid to the transfer of personnel, employer and business services from TE Centres to municipalities. How is the division of responsibilities clarified, how is the financing model thought to be implemented, and what is meant by these international recruitments, in which the state would play a supranational role? Then there is the organisation of these services, with 20,000 people coming to the border. For example, in my own municipality, Naantali has 19,500 inhabitants. Would we be responsible, or should the provision of services be done together with other municipalities, such as Masku, in order to cross the border? I believe, however, that the municipalities would have a rather wide responsibility for the services of the inhabitants of their own region, in other words, in this situation this is, in fact, a rather wide-ranging change in the current situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u378	Thank you. — and Mr Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u379	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. It is indeed a great thing to make this multi-skilling possible, precisely these digital services, both for companies and then for citizens. And a good list of these services: the dimensions of care for the elderly, child welfare and so on in this municipality. So the development of state administration is none of your business, but promoting diversity and this digitalization together make this diversity possible. This preparation for the administration of welfare areas is then a big piece, which should be ready on a short schedule for these VATE groups. I would have asked about the adequacy of funding at that stage of change and, of course, the fluency. Will we be able to complete it on that schedule in the VATE groups, and what do you see in the bottlenecks? Of course, there is a different message about property ownership, debts and so forth, but they are also, of course, municipal solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u380	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u381	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Interest has been taken care of for the past few years and has also been taken on a number of decisions to support those affected by the interest rate, businesses, individuals and also, of course, municipalities. The important message that the Minister said there is that municipalities will be fully compensated for interest payments. That was perhaps the best sentence in your speech. Finland has one of the world's highest quality, most reliable and most efficient public administrations, and its development continues. Next year, three pilots of state joint service points will be launched and will be an important reform target. Finland is a model country for digitalisation in Europe. Digitalisation is also evolving, and further development of digitalisation in central government is also important. It is commendable that you have reacted to the handling congestion of the Digi and Population Agency and that you are making it more efficient with additional funding. Thank you very much for this, because many citizens have faced these problems with regard to lobbying and estates, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u382	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u383	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the good knowledge that the situation in the municipalities during the phase-out of the social welfare reform has been secured. We all know that there will certainly be stages that we cannot even imagine yet. But it is good to know that we can count on this period of crisis being handled well. In general, in digital terms, when it comes to high-speed broadband connections, we all know that the only option is fibre optics. Access to 5G connections to rural areas is practically impossible. In my municipality of residence, such a fiber optic network was built five years ago, and I can recommend it to everyone. I would like you, Minister, to send an ever stronger message to the Council of State that as far as these structural funds are concerned — and then there will be JTF money — and now there will be recovery money, and so on — the only real project that will certainly be able to improve the standard of living and improve services in this country is to build a fibre network covering the whole country. All services will be digitized. For example, at a health center, when you take an X - ray, you can send it to a university hospital very quickly and get a good answer, which is the patient’s problem. If such networks do not exist, the service will not play.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u384	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u385	Mr President! I could generally praise the government, but my question concerns the change in the beginning of 2023 when the tasks of social welfare and health care are, as is well-known, transferred from municipalities to welfare areas. Of course, it automatically affects the central government shares of municipalities. But here I heard that the mayors had apparently held such a rather extensive Teams meeting this week and there had been such a feeling that there would be a change in state participation legislation in connection with the year 2023. I would like to ask you, Minister: what is the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u386	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Paatero, for taking care of the municipalities in the middle of the corona. In many areas, digitalisation has been introduced. Finland is a large and beautiful country, and it is good to keep the whole of Finland inhabited and flourishing. Modern technology and fiber optics enable many people to do their work regardless of their location. The recovery package gives us funds to pull the light fiber. With interest, new good practices have also emerged, some of which will certainly live. When promoting digital services — as examples of piloting joint teleworking stations starting next year and preparing digital identity — it should be remembered that not everyone knows how to use technology. Young people could be a guide to parents. This would be a good task for organisations whose funding needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u387	Like this. — Let us take Mr Kettunen, and then Mr Paatero will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u388	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Congressman Kiviranta was about to compliment the government, so I am now complimenting Kiviranta for asking the question. After all, the government will improve the conditions for work and housing in a multi-spatial and non-spatial environment by promoting digital services for citizens and businesses alike. This is a welcome support for the development of the regions on an equal footing, and it will enable the choices of the way of living to be made for an ever wider number of Finns, whose majority wishes to live more freely. In this respect, Mr Kinnunen and Mr Hoskonen raised the importance of broadband, the importance of photo fibre, and, as we all know, it is the service platform for the services of the future that we will use. Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u389	Like this. - And now for the Minister more good performances, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u390	Thank you very much, and thank you for your thanks. It has been a pleasure to be here, although in a difficult time of interest, and to work together to promote public administration as a whole and in cooperation with municipalities. And that is one thing that has also progressed during this term of government, that there is no confrontation between municipalities and the state, but that has been tried to mitigate. But to these few questions: Digital support is our tool for helping these people in the regions. This has been a project so far, and projects across Finland have been managed in different ways — somewhere they have been by municipalities, somewhere they have been by regional associations — and now the aim is to have them consolidated so that this digital support is available throughout Finland. But it will be, as the representative said, in the future, with parishes, organisations, municipalities and, of course, with government and, of course, with other actors, how best to implement it in that municipality. But this will thus become a permanent activity on the part of the state administration. Then these municipalities' central government shares, this question from Kiviranta, that in 23 C.E., is there going to be a change to the central government law? This is not the plan yet, but we have, of course, in the process of considering the funding, taxation and tasks of municipalities, and that is, when welfare areas start, we need to think about the whole thinking of municipalities in a new way. How do we ensure that the funding base for municipalities will continue to be sufficient in the future? And we will certainly change the municipal law, we will change the law on state aids and others, but there is still no information on the timetable, because by the end of this year we will have information about these background studies and the proposals that will then be promoted and we will see how they go. But it is known that there will be changes in state contributions. For optical fibres: I couldn't agree more, and even though this is a matter for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. [ The speaker laughs] The creation of the Digital and Population Information Agency has indeed been a challenge because at the same time it has had to be done to digitise old documents — you know that in local register offices and churches and elsewhere — and at the same time to create digital services, i.e. two things. And there was not enough resources for this, and now that the management of human affairs, such as the care of elderly matters in matters of lobbying or the distribution of inheritances or the sale of housing or so on, has become a growing need, and that is why we have come into this situation, and now we have got over two million people who have been able to hire more staff. So this year the 15 million for the well-being regions, 47 million for next year. Question for Pirttilah: Is that enough? That's a very good question. When it has not yet been achieved, it is a little difficult to estimate, but the first feedback has already come, and I am also going to go through the situation particularly in these, perhaps, fragmentary provinces, which have not had this joint municipal model, which is starting now. The situation is different from that of the provinces where the joint municipal board has been established for years. And we have a group inside the VM who are thinking and looking at the estimates that if it seems that funding is not enough, then we will see whether it is in the supplementary budget or whether it will be in the next year — which is probably more realistic when we know the practical costs — then in some amending budget. The transfer of TE services, Mr Junnila, is a very big change, and here I have to say that there are no ready answers yet, because these decisions are being taken in the Employment Ministers' group week by week. A larger policy has been drawn from the 20 000 employed, i.e. there must be the 20,000 people in the working area — people of working age. In addition to that, there have been bigger guidelines on which services are to be provided, but the financing model has not yet been decided, and this is being discussed with municipalities at the moment. And likewise the line of these national services that which remain as national services, which are then at the head of the municipalities, it has not yet been exactly done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u391	Thank you. — and Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u392	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to continue with this very important issue on the congestion of the services of the Digi and Population Information Office, to which Mr Viljanen also wisely referred. After all, this has been an unreasonable situation when, as a matter of principle, in these matters of guardianship and lobbying, it is the sick people, the elderly, who are unable to manage their own affairs. They have needed a guardian, and this treatment of this trustee has been extended from up to four months to six months. In May this year I put a written question on this, in which I demand that the government correct this resource situation caused by the interest rate and the fall in the revenue of this agency. It is great that the government is responding to this, but I would like to ask the Minister what the situation is at the moment with regard to this congestion situation and these queues. Are there still a lot of queues there, and with these additional government resources, can the queues be repaired?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u393	And Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u394	Honorable Speaker! In that sense, the Minister of Local Government has a challenging job, especially when this reform of the welfare areas comes, so many issues overlap. Especially in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and then in municipalities we have been thinking about the year 2023 and since this FCG calculated these costs of social protection, which would appear to be 6.4 billion in the first eight years after the war comes into effect, and the Confederation of Taxpayers had calculated that for the average income it would be EUR 1800 additional taxes per year, and then, if turned into municipal taxes, we would be talking about an increase of up to 5 percentage points. How have you reacted to this calculation of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and in what way should this matter really be approached according to your view? And then, in connection with those welfare elections, there has been talk of so-called democracy money, when new regional councillors can have two to four meetings a year, but in some provinces there has been talk of up to 6,000 or even more money, annual compensation for groups, what is your opinion? Is this reasonable in view of the fact that these regions actually have considerably fewer jobs than the local councillors currently have?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u395	Like this. — and Mr Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u396	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with those leaders in the light fibre that hopefully we can make 70 million dollars available for symmetry, i.e. that the outgoing and future kuso would be just as strong, so that it also needs it in these services. Regarding welfare areas: They need their own administrative structure with them. And I understood here, at least from the Pirkanmaa VATE Group, that this would come afterwards. So when first paid and made that digital environment for that new administration, it would only be paid later. This is a matter for the VM, but I hope it will come in time, because in these well-being areas there is not much funding for themselves at the moment. Then the role of the new municipality: you mentioned it in financial terms, but is there any mental support to rebuild this municipality — now that the services of the TE Office are being re-established, then the services are leaving — to preserve or strengthen the heart of vitality in the new municipality? What kind of projects will be involved? And the last question is this transfer of rescue services. Is the transfer of this rescue service, including contract fire brigades, to this future welfare area also within the 47 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u397	And now that there seems to be no further requests to speak to this debate, if Mr Paatero will finish by commenting, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u398	Thank you very much, I'd love to. There are a lot of things here that we will probably continue to discuss after that. Of this 47 million, which will be funding for next year: That is to take the first steps of the administration, and the actual agreements will only be transferred at the time of 23, which is what the larger funding, which has been discussed here at the time of the legislative package, includes. I say this as a challenge to all of us, who are the municipal decision-makers and those in the region, that the number of these agreements that are going through — I remember, for example, Pirkanmaa: there were 20,000 agreements going through one region. So there's a lot of work to do, not to mention the real estate and the staff. They'll be there. This re-establishment of municipalities is also our joint work. So we are doing the research now, and it is also done together with the various networks of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and then we will be able to decide what it is. But if you just get out of this corona, as it now seems, it would be necessary to also take regional rounds, to do such joint seminars or round table discussions, because there is no such right option. There will be legislation, but after how the municipality takes its own view of the role of our municipality and the tasks of its vitality and civilisation and how it settles in that other municipal field and cooperation with its welfare area, it is the task of the new mandated strategy and it is a big job at the moment. To this ict side: So now, in this budget, a total of 175 million will be going to the ict side, I think, to coordinate these programmes in particular. Not so much to completely reform some programmes, but to make all these programmes work together when they are combined with municipalities and medical districts. It has separate funding, but it is to be applied for. It is in the form of a grant, which means that it is not in the form of a normal state. On the municipal side of Junnila's question: We are, however, in good cooperation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which was actually published just this week on Monday, and on Tuesday there was also an opportunity to do so. There was not exactly a 5 per cent increase to the municipal tax rate, i.e. not quite as large figures were reached. But there is undoubtedly such a need, a little different from that of the size groups of municipalities, what the increase pressure will be if the existing service structures and other municipalities continue, and this will probably come up. I know that there are also many consultants on the move, who then count these different ones. For this financing and election of welfare areas: I am going to Kainuu next week, but I realized that when the Kainuu administration model was started, the number of meetings there was quite large. In other words, I believe that the number of council meetings in the future will perhaps be less in the years to come, but it will probably be quite frequent at the beginning, because when you build something completely new, for the first time in a hundred years, that number of meetings is quite demanding, even on schedule, but those things too are quite demanding. And now here is the question of what is the meeting fee or the funding for the group, and that is for each region to decide for itself. But it may be worth considering this first year and then the normal time, when the welfare area works, in a different way. And from the DVV still to Mr Heinäluoma: I asked this question as to how far it would take to dismantle the traffic, and yes, the answer was that it would go to the end of next year before reaching the so-called more normal period. But we are always getting better at the moment, and hopefully I think that if we could still catch up. But next year's side would be on a normal time. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u399	Thank you, Minister Paatero. — Let us move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u400	Mr President! Digitalisation will change our lives and the operations of municipalities in a significant way in the coming years. Many services come just as close to a person. The municipalities will be re-created together. New municipalities can focus on promoting competence, vitality, planning and well-being. Care must be taken to ensure that the services that people, citizens, need every day and often, are kept close. It is very important that this digital support becomes a permanent state-run activity that can be carried out locally through cooperation between different actors, such as municipalities, parishes and organisations. It is important to ensure that everyone learns to use digital services. In the future, diversity, the opportunity to work in different places, will increase thanks to the promotion and advancement of digitalisation. Indeed, the parliamentary group in the sparsely populated region has raised a number of new openings that are worth taking up. Together, we will ensure that the new municipalities remain viable. Mr President! The labour shortage affects almost everywhere in Finland and prevents business growth and employment. In addition to employment measures, this problem will be addressed through a reform of continuous learning. It is the task of the Centre for Continuous Learning and Employment, which will start in the autumn, to coordinate regional networks to tackle the problem of encounters. The harsh fact is that at the same time we have unemployment and exclusion and a shortage of skilled labour across the country. The work and the perpetrators don't meet. The problem of confrontation must therefore be solved together. The Nordic labour model adds its own added value to helping the unemployed and laid-off to close the work to the side. In it, jobseekers seek work on their own and receive strong individual support for their job search at an earlier stage. Forgetting to apply for a job becomes a reminder. In the second time there will be 5 days without compensation and in the third there will be 10 days. The Sustainable Growth Programme will allocate EUR 15 million to new starting points for higher education institutions, which I hope for evenly across the country. There are also opening places for the second stage, such as local nurse training. Next year, EUR 43 million will be allocated. Mr President! Finns value science and research, researched data as the basis for decision-making. So far, funding for science has been secured when next year's solution was found. However, we have a genuine problem with the fall in the mark-up of the bet. Combating gambling harm is an important issue for which the Parliament is committed. However, it must not lead to permanent cuts in the funding of voluntary and well-being organisations, sports operators and cultural actors. For the coming years, we need parliamentary cooperation so that we can work together to resolve the financing of science and research in the longer term. Beneficiaries should be provided with a view and predictability to the future financing model. In the long term, we must aim for a 4% share of GDP in R & D investment. Mr President! Many good openings have been made to strengthen vitality and skills. However, Finland is not yet ready. Working together to build a thriving and prosperous Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u401	And Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u402	Mr President! A few words about the budget proposal for the Ministry of Justice's administrative sector. Courts have been congested by the number of pending cases and, at the same time, the delays have increased. In order to streamline the proceedings and to ensure better criminal liability, there is still a need to increase the budgets of the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In fact, the need is absolutely necessary. Mr President! A video storage system is designed and constructed for the reception of recordings of oral evidence in proceedings. Additional funding will be provided for this purpose. This is a record of the Government Programme, according to which the taking of evidence in court proceedings is concentrated on district courts, where the evidence is stored for court proceedings. Mr President! From the beginning of October 2021, an illegal threat becomes a criminal offence under official charge, in accordance with the Government Programme, when a threat is directed against a person because of his duties or public trust. As a result of the change in the number of criminal reports and the resulting pre-trials, it is estimated that there will be an increase in the amount of additional appropriations for both the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u403	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u404	Mr President! Let's have a referral debate on next year's budget. Today there has been a debate on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Finland's goal must be to make Finland the most attractive investment environment for companies. Predictability and stability must be at an appropriate level in many sectors. Ensuring the availability of skilled labour both at home and abroad is also an essential part of this. No one will invest if the workforce is not available. Government objectives and decisions regarding foreign and fluent permit practices are important. New jobs are created in growth-oriented companies. For the balanced development of the whole country, it is important to have growth companies born in different parts of Finland. In my own country, Kainuu is currently expected to invest some EUR 2.2 billion. If everything happens, it means getting over 1,500 additional jobs in Kainuu, a province called Kainuu, and if you start building factory investments, there can be more than 3,000 jobs in the construction period. The largest investments are directed towards the chemical forest industry: KaiCell Fibers factory investment is ahead of us. But if we are to have skilled workers, the mobility of workers within the country should also be brought to an appropriate level, and the labour force has always moved from other countries, that is to say, this work-related immigration, and this should be promoted. President! Finally, in this area of employment: I would like to highlight the promotion of the employment of part-time workers. In fact, a new special government agency will be set up. It now runs by the name of Mediator Oy. It is the task of this company to employ those who are able to work part-time in longer-term employment relationships, to provide support for employees and to create opportunities for career advancement. In next year's budget, a State subsidy of EUR 10 million has been proposed for the activities of this company.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u405	Like this. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u406	Mr President! Of course, the government alone does not create any jobs, they are created in companies. We must therefore improve the environment in which they operate. The best measure for employment is therefore to ensure that companies can operate and expand. For the balanced development of the whole country, it is important to have growth companies born in different parts of Finland. The government's decisions to reduce the electricity tax, double depreciation, support companies over the corona crisis and care for the investment environment have created work and growth here in Finland. We must now remain on this path of growth. Many other good decisions have been made. I am pleased that the government has shown by its action that it understands the irreplaceability of companies as importers of vitality and work. As the household allowance now expands, it will increase jobs in the services sector. Research cooperation in R & D also supports companies to renew, develop, innovate and cooperate with researchers, universities and universities. It is now being extended by two years. In addition, Finland’s sustainable growth programme supports the green transition of industry in many different ways. Above all, Finland needs a skilled workforce from both Finland and abroad, as Mr Kettunen described there. No one will invest if there is no workforce and talent available. We need to get everyone who can work on a nail. These fluent permit practices from abroad will be promoted and then the employment of all Finns will be facilitated and supported by these many good government openings.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u407	And Mr. Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u408	Honorable Speaker! Mr Kinnunen made such a good speech, and he missed a few words. I do not want to prolong the debate in any way, but if there is a chance for this debate, then just yet, Mr President, a few words. Indeed, it has often been argued in this Chamber that the government has not taken employment decisions, and that is not the case. This budget and budget debate have responded to the acute labour shortages of companies by making decisions on fast-acting measures to promote access to labour. These include facilitating work-related immigration on this "D" visa. Well, in addition to this, when I spoke in that previous speech about how to get young people to move on to work, the fixed-term increase in the income limit for student aid is the answer. I would hope that this will continue in the future, since this is only a temporary measure. Well, then, a gradual increase in the reduction in earnings for older people over 60 will create a little employment. Well, the earlier decision on, among other things, the abolition of the pension pipeline, the extension of compulsory education, the tightening of the job search obligation and the reform of employment services are the measures to raise that employment. Well, I was talking about that work-related immigration, and it has been claimed that the government is now demanding cheap labour from abroad and that the Finnish unemployed have been forgotten. This is not true either. The Finnish unemployed person and the employee arriving from abroad are in no way in contrast.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u409	We shall now resume at 1 p.m. the adjourned session. The 22nd issue of the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u410	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u411	Mr President! The radical environmental movement Elukas was once again blocked by the Helsinki Mannerheimintie. This time legal order was restored under the law of the police and no camping and other inconvenience was allowed for several days. “In Finland, there is Nevertheless, the public radio reported that the Left Alliance had given support to civil disobedience. Ministers have avoided a debate on this issue. Secretary Andersson, you have called for haste. Of course, Minister of the Interior, Mr Ohio, does not interfere with the operational activities of the police, but last night's riots could well have been avoided if you had shown leadership and courageously condemned such activities. I understand the difficulty, because the Elo rebellion drives the political positions around you. Minister of the Interior, how do you react when the rebels next bludgeon and block public passages? Do you condemn me?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u412	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u413	Mr President! Thank you for the question. It is quite clear that peaceful demonstrations in democracy are part of an open democracy, a civic influence. What is going on in the field — what is legal, what is not legal — is for the authorities to make those interpretations. We are here to legislate on the basis of which law enforcement enforces those laws. There is no need to go very far from this society when you see what happens when peaceful demonstrators are put out of their minds, for example by political decisions. I think it is important that the police in that field should have the peace to do the work they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u414	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u415	Mr President! This question of the representative referred to the fact that the government had, as it were, avoided taking a position on the matter. Yesterday I said to the news from MTV that I do not approve of illegal activities and that the government does not approve of illegal activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u416	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u417	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Valtonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u419	Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u421	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u423	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u425	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u427	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u433	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u437	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u445	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u449	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u455	Secretary Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u471	Secretary Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u475	Secretary Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u493	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u494	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u495	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u496	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u497	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u498	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u499	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u500	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u501	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u502	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u503	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u504	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u505	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u506	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u507	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u508	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u509	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u510	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u511	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u512	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u513	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u514	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u515	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u516	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u517	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u518	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u519	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u520	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u521	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u522	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u523	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u524	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u525	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u526	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u527	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u528	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u529	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u530	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u531	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u532	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u533	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u534	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u535	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u536	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u537	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u538	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u539	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u540	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u541	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u542	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u543	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u544	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u545	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u546	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u547	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u548	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u549	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u550	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u551	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u552	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u553	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u554	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u555	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u556	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u557	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u558	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u559	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u560	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u561	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u562	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u563	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u564	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u565	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u566	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u567	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u568	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u569	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u570	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u571	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-30-ps-107.u572	Mr President! With regard to early childhood education, the government has directed more permanent resources to improve the quality of early childhood education and, among other things, to reduce groups, which is also essential from the point of view of the personnel's ability to cope. More funding is directed towards increasing the number of start-ups. There are also various types of multi-form programmes that enable existing nannyes to study more and qualify themselves as teachers of early childhood education. But I do see that the same way as when we talk about nursing professions on the social and health side, this actually applies to early childhood education: we will not be able to solve this shortage of labour unless we, as decision-makers, are also prepared to discuss working conditions and pay. These decisions and decisions are not taken in Parliament, they are made at local level. This is a matter for the social partners. But there must also be improvement in that area, so that we will also be able to get motivated professionals to apply to these sectors in the future.
