ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 September 2021. The debate, supported by Ms Laiho Sari Sarkomaa, has been followed by three motions for statements, which have been circulated to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u4	Mr President! The government's starting point has been that as high a vaccination coverage as possible will enable society to be kept open permanently. The renewed hybrid strategy has set out steps towards opening up society to government. National restrictions and comprehensive recommendations will be lifted when vaccination target groups of 12 years of age and over reach a vaccination coverage of at least 80% or have been able to receive two vaccinations in all willing target populations. The strategy defines the tools that can be used in the future in the regions to deal with a potential local group of infectious diseases, once the regional phase descriptions of the epidemic have been abandoned and move towards a uniform local response to the epidemic. On Tuesday, the government submitted a proposal to Parliament to amend the Act on communicable diseases and to amend it temporarily. The amendments are intended to remain in force until the end of the year. The government's proposal contains provisions on both the corona passport and the extension of the so-called border lines, and I will present both of them here. The government proposal proposes to provide for the national use of the EU digital corona certificate, i.e. a corona passport. The introduction of the Koronapass has been prepared together with other ministries under the leadership of the STM since August 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u7	Thank you. — Now we are going to have a firm debate, and I would ask those representatives who wish to participate in the debate to press the V button and stand up. — Representative Salmon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u8	Mr President! I thank the Minister for presenting this government's proposal. These are, after all, restrictions which must always be assessed on whether they are necessary. Now that these are coming to Parliament, my wish is, of course... I can promise you that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will at least be very careful to examine these issues and also to assess whether the disease situation has progressed in the direction of consultation with experts, including progress in the vaccination programmes and vaccine coverage, that it is still justified to continue, for example, with regard to travel until 15 October. In fact, I am particularly concerned about the kind of message that Finland has left this past year. That message has not been such that passengers are welcome in Finland. We have only recovered 20% of our air traffic to the pre-pandemic level, but other European countries have already been able to increase to 50% or more.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u9	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u10	Mr President! We must be able to reconcile the current but in many ways a different corona epidemic and then the opening up of the country and, in this context, a stronger recovery in the economy. So, what's this corona situation at the moment? The fundamental difference between the situation one year ago is that more than 7 million vaccines have been given in our country at present, but on the other hand we have the delta virus, and this difference is reflected in the fact that a year ago, at the turn of August and September, we had only ten patients in the hospital, even though no one had been vaccinated. This year, at that same time, we had 100 patients in the hospital because we have a more contagious virus. We have to take care of the borders. We are able to take care of what is being done here within the country, but we must not allow our borders to be infected in vain, and that is why we still need reasonable control, but,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u11	Thank you. — Mr Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u12	Mr. Speaker! In this interest rate policy, I am concerned that more efforts are being made to create a sense of security that is not really based on anything, and then those epidemiological issues are going a different way — those that should really be addressed. In fact, it has been found that a person with more severe corona disease may be less contagious because he stays home sick. Instead, a milder - symptom person may be more susceptible to infection because he is not aware of the illness and is walking around to infect others. In the light of the current study, it is somewhat unclear how much less infecting is done by those vaccinated or by those vaccinated equally easily. Yet you are proposing a corona pass and putting citizens on an unequal footing on a very light basis. Individual freedom will be lost and reinstated conditionally. How do you experience this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u13	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u14	Mr President! I really welcome the fact that the corona passport legislation has finally arrived here in Parliament. It's late, but it's better late than never. In this regard, Mr Tavio presented a problem with respect to the equality of people in the face of various events and events in general. Personally, I would point out that when this negative corona test result is also an essential element in the corona pass, it is important that its negative corona test result is obtained at a relatively low cost. Now if you go to a private person here in Finland, it costs 170 euros, even more. There should also be an opportunity to do that test at the pharmacy, an antigen test with a few tens, so it would be easier for all people who, for some reason, do not want to take the vaccine but still want to take part in various events when they know they do not have this corona virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u15	Thank you. — Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u16	Mr President! I am in favour of introducing a corona pass in Finland. Thank you to the government for having the motion before us now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u19	Thank you. — Mr Honkasalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u20	Mr President! The Left Alliance has supported the swiftest possible implementation of the corona pass, taking into account fundamental rights and equality. The Korona Pass is one tool, and it is indeed important to remember that this is therefore an alternative to restrictions and this model is quite different from the corona passports currently in use in other European countries. Personally, I would like to draw attention to the role of children in this government proposal. I hope, for example, that in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media we will look critically at the age range of 12 to 17 and consider whether it might be possible to raise this age limit to 16, because now the situation is that it puts children of different ages possibly in a very unequal position and we may actually be in a situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u21	Congressman Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u22	Mr President! No matter what you think of the benefits of the corona pass, this project is now unremarkable. Many countries are already giving up their corona passports and opening up societies for all. I think that the corona passport would also mean tampering with individual rights, so there should be a high threshold for such use. The current hospital and intensive care burden is not in favour of carrying out the project. High vaccine coverage is an important objective, but I believe that it should be pursued on the basis of a genuine voluntary basis, just as has been achieved with other vaccines. And if this corona pass were used as some kind of coercion to take vaccines, it might provoke suspicion and resistance to corona activities. The tests should be free of charge to be fair and for passport purposes
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u23	Congressman Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, there was talk of internal security in this Chamber, and the government said that everything was in order. Today, a day later, we are dealing here with the government's Nazi passport bill, which is dividing the people in two. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : Madam Vice-President,please use the appropriate language. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u27	Congressman Werner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u28	Thank you, Speaker! The government's proposal is to be welcomed, and I am particularly pleased with the government's proposal on the introduction of the corona passport. We all know that in the field of events, physical activity and culture, the last year and a half has been silent. This is one of the tools that we can make possible the activities of event organizers in the field of events, culture and physical activity in the future. Last week, I met with the staff of the Teosto in the field of cultural communities, and it was also hoped that this passport would be made available quickly. This is what is happening in society at the moment, but we must do everything we can to ensure that events can be organised safely. I warmly support the introduction of a corona pass and I believe that the field of events will also welcome this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u29	Thank you. — Mr Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u30	Mr President! As far as corona vaccines are concerned, we do not know at the moment how long those corona vaccines will protect against that disease. We know, however, that even those vaccinated can infect the disease and also get the disease themselves, even though they do not get as serious as those not vaccinated. This alone will drop the bottom of me on the entire corona pass. Then I would like to ask the Minister how constitutional experts have commented on Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution. - in relation to equality and in relation to personal freedom and non-discrimination? What positions have come from there, because when I read the law itself, I see that this corona passport is strongly at war with both these articles of the Constitution? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u31	Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u32	Ärade Herr Talman! Precis som ledamot Salmon rain så är det viktigt att ricksdagens utskott tittar på om de raus halso controlernas förlängning faktikt är motiverad. Vaccinationerna går framåt i snabb takt och det har gjort att regeringen har beslutat om en ny hybridstrategist för att öppna upp samhället. Det skulle vara viktigt att det också gällde gränserna, för gränserna ställer till stora problem för gränssamhällen som till example Åland. Jag vill fråga ministern: Hade man alls övervägt att man till exempel för Norden, som ju har ett lisadant vaccinationsläge och ungefär likanande epidemiskt läge som Finland, åtminstone skulle avskaffa älso controlerna. För gränssamhällen som Åland ställer det till problem att åländska lag som specar i svenska serier på grund av geografin nu är uustängda från att delta i Sverige på grund av att ungdomarna inte ännu har TVå doser vaccin, och det är är valdigt beklaglt. Lappland har fått [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u35	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u36	Mr President! Better late than never. It is very good that the corona pass is finally in Parliament. That heartless delay has caused tremendous human and economic destruction. If we had had a corona passport in time, companies and the industry could have acted, but it is good that you won the ideological repulsion against the corona pass and brought this motion. The event industry has made such a statement that this passport would still be needed after the turn of the year, because major international events, for example, take place on a long tendon and Article 58 of the Act on Disease Control. will also allow for a restriction of events. This may prevent major international events. I ask, Minister, how do you respond to this, and could this law still be amended here in Parliament? The Coalition Party is in favour of looking at age limits for children. We also wish to see a statement on our proposal, on the proposal of the Assembly,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u37	Congressman Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u38	Mr President! It should be remembered that Finland has done well in the fight against corona with relatively light restrictions and from the point of view of health and the economy. I think it is good that this corona passport has been carefully prepared. It is important that we open up society and that opportunities can be held, and I am sure we all think that we hope that this passport will not even have to be introduced, because that is an alternative to these various restrictions. But I would also like to stress this point of view for children and young people, and the situation of these 12 to 17-year-olds should be looked at very carefully in the committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u39	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Matias, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u40	Mr President! Throughout this crisis, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have been emphasising the economy and health and how they go hand in hand, and the best crisis management has always been — and it is, in fact, continuing to be — the proper management of the health crisis, enabling the economy to be kept as open as possible and people to have confidence in spending. Now that the vaccine coverage has reached a good level and the situation is that all Finns have had the opportunity to take two vaccines, the corona pass is easier and more justified from an equal perspective. There is now much talk of delay and ideological opposition in this Chamber, but, as far as I am aware, the Group of the European People's Party has already identified the problems of equality with this corona pass in the spring. There are clearly fewer of them now, and we are on the move in a timely manner when, after people have received two vaccines, we finally get a passport.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u41	Congressman Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u42	Mr President! I take particular care of it, if it were to continue, beyond Christmas, that tourism without double testing would only be possible for those who have been vaccinated twice in the European Union as well. The Minister has stressed that there are hundreds of millions of people in Europe with this double vaccination. Well, it is, but has there been any thought of such a situation, if you think of a British tour operator, how he collects the information in advance, who has a double vaccination, who doesn't, and who knows how to target marketing there. Sweden is not required to: Sweden does not require this double vaccination and test whether it exists at airports. Is it going to be that we have 10,000 seasonal workers without jobs and its social, health-related effects on the Christmas season if we over-prescribe this... Has it been carefully assessed how this can be arranged in such a way that Finnish tour operators do not fall under the hill and snow when the Swedes pass? The opening of the salmon to this was good. Supported him.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u43	Thank you. — Mr Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u44	Mr President! Although I agree with the criticism of why the preparation of the passport was not started earlier, I think that it will be a good thing when it comes into use.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u47	Thank you. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u48	Mr President! I understand that this corona pass is also available when you have been to the test and have a negative test result that is valid for 72 hours. In Finland, however, the costs of testing would be borne by the user. We know that it costs EUR 200 to take this test in the private sector, and sometimes it even takes a considerable amount of time to get the test result. For example, in Denmark, where the corona passport was valid for some time — no longer, of course — testing was free of charge even for tourists. There everyone quickly got to the test, and the result is that the corona pass does not mean the same thing as forced vaccination. In this situation in Finland and in this government proposal, the only practical alternative to getting this passport is to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u49	Thank you. — Representative Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u51	Thank you. — I will give you two more answers. — Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u52	Mr President! It is always healthy to remember that it is the basic premise that we have freedom of movement, industry and assembly. That's no exception. In order to be able to make exceptions, it must be justified by necessity. The basic problem with this vaccine passport is that if the vaccine works, it is not really needed, and if the vaccine does not work, then at least it is not needed. After all, vaccination does not seem to prevent the disease from being given or infected. So what exactly does this passport prove? It is particularly reprehensible that the government should present a passport to minors in general and that the test would be paid for by adults against a considerable amount. Could the Minister now, quite honestly, admit that this is actually a question of imposing a vaccination requirement on this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u53	Thank you. — And Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u54	Mr President! The Finnish Government has many successes in combating the corona epidemic in Finland, but delaying the implementation of this corona pass is apparently the worst failure of this government in its corona activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u57	Congressman Mäkynen, Matias, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u58	Mr President! As has been said, we saw in the spring that there is a need for a corona passport and that it should be prepared. Indeed, it was introduced at the borders at a rapid stage. At that point, apparently, other ministries were in the estimation that this disease situation would ease in the summer and autumn, and there was no suggestion that it would be necessary to prepare for this. Well, this autumn has fortunately been the case, and now that the vaccine coverage is beginning to be good and every 12-year-old has had the opportunity to take two vaccines, we will also be able, within the framework of the constitution which Mr Zyskowiczk is very well aware of, to introduce this passport. This is a very well-founded proposal. I'm glad we can get it to the parliament now, but we also know the terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u59	Let us continue with a few more speeches. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u60	Mr President! In April, the assembly presented a corona pass, and then you, Minister Kiuru, at the A-Studio said on 8 April that the corona pass was a means of closing society. Well, now this is a big failure. Six months later you brought this and yesterday at the press conference you regretted that it was delayed for two hours. You would have regretted, Minister, that this is six months late. Lost all summer, lost summer events, concerts and theatres in large part. Mr Salmon: full support for your proposal, but it seems that you, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, are only hard at talking and in this Chamber, and again in committee you will accept what Mr Kiuru is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u62	Congressman Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u63	Mr President! As has been said here before, Finland and the government have been extremely successful in this interest rate system in the big picture. But I may have to deviate from the norm and admit that I also think it is appropriate for representatives of the government and the government to say that there are some things we have not succeeded in. In my opinion, the opposition and the cultural event and restaurant sector were right that a little earlier — I do not know if six months earlier, but faster than now — the corona pass could have been made available in Finland as well. Nor is it a sin for government representatives to admit that good ideas can also exist in the opposition. I think it is perfectly normal that this is the case in democracy. Not all wisdom always dwells in government and government representatives alone. But I'm glad we're getting this. Let us hope that it can be used in the future if the situation deteriorates. We don't want it to weaken. I'm glad we get it now. And these comments, which have been made here today, will hopefully be taken into account by the committee and the ministry in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u64	Thank you. — And now let's go to the Minister's speech. — Minister Kiuru, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u65	Mr President! These were a lot of questions for the representatives. Let's get out of these borders. The purpose of the big picture is to keep Finland open and catch the virus at the borders. It's nothing weirder than that. It's nothing special.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u74	Thank you, Minister Kiuru. — There appears to be a need for further debate. — — — — Congressman Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u75	Mr President! Minister Kiuru, the Coalition Party presented exactly the same corona passport in April 2021, less than six months earlier. Our group chairman, Mr Mykkänen, was still going through extensively how it could have saved this summer in relation to events. It was accompanied by a vaccine, but when the vaccine coverage was not sufficiently high, it was similarly accompanied by a diseased corona or a negative test result. It would not have obliged anyone to take a vaccination, but it would have helped keep the sporting events open, summer concerts open, festivals open, dances open, everything that would have happened in Finland in the summer, and tourism and restaurant business. Quite a lot of restaurants would have survived the summer much better,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u76	Thank you. — Mr Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u77	Mr. Speaker! These strict interest rate restrictions are no longer proportionate. I ask the Minister: when the capacity of the hospital seems no longer to be threatened and the majority are vaccinated, how is it justified that you are simply pursuing your most serious restriction measure so far, the corona pass? I am particularly surprised that, contrary to the THL line, you also extend this to children. What do you say, Minister Kiuru, to the 12-year-old who, for one reason or another, has not been vaccinated and who you propose to convert from the gates of the playground?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u78	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u79	Mr President! This is an exaggeration, as was the case with the previous speech by Mr Tavio, of these effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u82	Thank you. — Mr Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u83	Mr President! Yes, I think that Tavio's comparison was right. This is the way it will be in practice. We're gonna have kids, some of them getting into football bars or hockey bars, and some of them don't get to run around all the time testing themselves. This is wrong, and it is now a clear violation of individual rights. Then I would like to repeat the question to Minister Kiuru about this preparation: after you have probably heard a number of constitutional experts regarding this equality and integrity — Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution. — what kind of message has come from there?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u84	Thank you. — I will give one more reply, then to the Minister for 2 minutes. — Representative Salmon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u85	Mr President! I understand the criticism that this corona passport could have come a little earlier, as many people have said, but it must also be acknowledged that if we have a very low vaccination coverage, then this kind of passport cannot work. But I would also like to see a real picture of this corona passport removed from this hall: This is certainly not the most powerful way, as has been said here. Or when many citizens give their feedback that this is about tackling equality or human rights, they can be confident that, from this point of view, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee will examine with absolute certainty that this is in line with international human rights and does not violate the equality of Article 6 of the Constitution. This is an alternative, as the Minister has said here, if the criteria of necessity require that restrictions on the use of farms be introduced in a region — then there is no need to do so if there is:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u87	Congressman Mäkynen, Matias, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u88	Mr President! It is now precisely the difference between last spring and this autumn that needs to be noted, and this is particularly true in terms of vaccine coverage. Last spring, the corona pass would have excluded more people from these services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u92	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u93	Mr President! It has been well stated here that this corona passport, in the form presented to Parliament, is opening up society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u102	The time allocated to this matter at this stage has thus expired and the debate and proceedings will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after examination of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u103	We will now resume the debate on item 3 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — To the list of speakers. Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u104	Mr President! George Orwell once said that telling the truth will become a revolutionary act when lying prevails in the world. Now we are living in a time of lying and the revolution has already begun. There are already so many liars who speak the truth that it can be called a popular movement and even a civil rebellion. And it's growing bigger and bigger. Colleagues, you can be sure that it will oppose all restrictions on this fake pandemic, as well as on the corona pass. And surely civil disobedience will also be seen if certain groups of people are being subjugated in this country. Discrimination has always been widely condemned in this society, and, good government, you are now going on the path of discrimination by means of a corona pass. You're about to throw that first stone now. With this motion, you are going to legalize discrimination. In particular, the Non-Discrimination Act states that no one should be discriminated against because of his or her health. What do you think, my good government, are you going to get that stone you threw on your neck and many more? The evening paper reported yesterday: “The seller asked the man to make a mask in Germany—a man-shooter. “ Does this news not even wake you up, ladies and gentlemen? Mr President! If this Nazi passport, despite what I have said, were to be enforced, would it not be possible to immediately assign sleeve marks to people on the street? Whoever owns a Nazi passport could have a swastika name and a blue cross flag for those who don't have a passport. Perhaps this will give you, good government, stimulating memories — or images of the future situation. Sleeve mark versus sleeve mark. In addition, non-vaccinated persons could be obliged to cry out when they were moving around the world ‘Defiled, unclean’, as in the past, as they had to do with the Bible. The Bible goes on from the lepers: “As far as the disease Outside the camp — that is where you, the good government, are now putting healthy people, separating them from society, such as leprosy. So the only difference is that now the diseased are healthy people. I mean, healthy people who just haven't agreed to take a series of poison spikes. Mr President! This false pandemic and the government’s exceptional measures have in many ways deepened inequalities in our society. Now, good government, you are about to make two people worse and create two stories of our people. You are in the process of a division in which the factor of division is not wealth but conviction. The dividing factor is also the lie against the truth. The key to that race is which side of the race will each be placed on. Mr President! The People Party is always on the side of the truth — and so is the case here. We're on the side of freedom against a fascist totalitarian. One day the truth will be revealed to all and the light mentioned in the Holy Book will yet be born here in the North. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u105	Thank you. — and Mr Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u106	Mr President! I thanked the government for the corona pass bill even during the previous debate. This law is needed in the anti-pandemic toolbox. The Greens gave the corona pass the green light as early as February of this year. The KoronaPass brings certainty to the event and cultural sector, it already works across the board in tourism. The KoronaPass enables health-security events to be carried out even in worse epidemic situations. If further restrictions were to be imposed, the operator could partially deviate from them by introducing a corona passport. The passport also encourages vaccination, but vaccination is not a prerequisite for obtaining it, and the passport can also be obtained with a negative test or a certificate of covid-19 disease, as Mrs Turtiainen repeats here. No corona passport is required for persons under 12 years of age and, in accordance with the principle of priority in the best interests of the child, the possibility of free testing is offered to persons under 18 years of age. The best option would be for the restrictions to be lifted and the passport will not be needed very long in Finland either. As legislators, we can now add this new tool to the pandemic toolbox if we still have to introduce restrictions because of this or the next infectious disease. Mr President! Korona is still raging around the world, and we must therefore ensure that new variants from the world do not threaten the current disease situation in Finland. The opposition here, as we know it, is struggling this time to explain why the corona pass has not been brought to this Chamber before. The vaccination coverage of Finns is only now at the level that the passport can be introduced in Finland. The vaccine situation in the spring did not make that possible yet. The countries mentioned here today have, for one reason or another, been able to vaccinate their populations more quickly, and therefore the introduction of a corona passport was also successful in them earlier than in Finland. Even so, Finland has done well internationally in its interest rate operations. I hope that the urgency of the opposition for the introduction of the passport will continue also during the committee debate, so that the government's proposal for a corona passport returns quickly to us for approval in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u107	And Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u108	Mr President! As we know, there are two key issues to this government proposal: firstly, health safety practices for people arriving in Finland, i.e. we welcome, in practice, those with a full vaccine series, those with a corona within six months or those with a recent negative corona certificate. Those who do not meet these criteria will be subject to further measures or tests in the case of entry. The second point is the possible introduction of a national corona pass, which aims to reduce coronavirus infections associated with gatherings and to promote the opening up of society. The starting point of the Corona Pass is to facilitate the activities of those sectors which currently suffer most from restrictions or where additional restrictions would be imposed in the event of a worsening of the disease situation. In practice, however, in areas where significant restrictions exist, a corona passport would enable traders to operate. Examples include restaurants, nightclubs, public events, gyms, sports and sports facilities, swimming pools, spas, dance venues and so on. This would therefore be an alternative to nothing else: the corona is burning, and restrictions are being imposed. In this case, a corona pass would be a means of maintaining the business world, a means of not catching the boutique. President! We all recognise the debate that has taken place both around the entry restrictions and the corona passport. It is quite clear that many aspects are also justified. For example, do we jumble in the difficulties of winter tourism in Lapland or treat people equally? As far as tourism, for example, is concerned, of course, we cannot afford to lose another winter. We must therefore have agility, and whether there is enough of that, the committees should also think about it. Finally, I see that the corona pass is a possible equipment supplement that will enable us to open up society. So it's not a restriction. It's a freedom pass. I certainly hope that it will not be necessary to use it, but that we will be taking a bolder and bolder step towards opening up society in any case. It could be in the back pocket if the gates threaten to close again. That way of closing, that is, the way of closing, we no longer want. It is equally clear that we must have our senses in this hand and our hearts warm in that we do not break up and rule but build community and responsibility and do nothing unnecessary. President! Finally, it is certainly healthy and wise for us in the committees also to reflect on the position of people who, for example, cannot, for one reason or another, take a vaccine. The same applies to the position of children. In this respect, I believe that, in committee, these matters of the draft law will become more specific, more precise and perhaps better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u109	Thank you. — and Mr Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u110	Mr President! For some time now, we have been able to get used to a more open society where restaurants are open and opportunities can be arranged. This has been made possible by well-functioning vaccinations and a well-controlled disease situation. The present bill for amending the Act on communicable diseases is part of the government's plan to dismantle the restrictions imposed by the corona. The government has rightly outlined its corona strategy by means of a variety of measures to keep society open simultaneously and to manage the disease situation. I think it is important for the government to keep society open. Free movement and participation are relevant to both physical and mental health. For example, staying close to school and students would be a prime objective. Although distance learning has, of course, been a better option than nothing, it is now known that, in the exceptional months, children's and young people's credits have deteriorated and mental health problems have increased. So you don't want to go back to distance learning unless you're in an extreme situation. This bill contains a proposal for a corona pass as one way to keep society open, even if local disease may raise its head. Two vaccinations, a diseased corona or a recent negative result of the corona test would be required to receive a corona passport. Although I agree with the criticism of why the preparation of the passport was not started earlier, I think that it will be a good thing when it comes into use. It is important to make it possible to open businesses, shops and shops, and to organise various events and events. Open society is the best form of enterprise support. There have been criticisms of the introduction of the Korona Pass that it discriminates against citizens. It has also been wrongly designated as a vaccination passport. You have to remember that a recent negative corona test is enough to get a corona pass. Vaccinated and unvaccinated in this way are on an equal footing with regard to access to the passport. The best thing would be for citizens to act responsibly and take both the first and the second vaccine. It is very unusual that some people are not satisfied with the common views of leading health experts in Finland that vaccines are definitely worth taking. Two-time vaccinated patients with a possible mild corona. The corona patients in intensive care are therefore unvaccinated. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health will soon be hearing experts who will open up health reasons why the vaccine cannot be taken. It is questionable that these virologists in their own lives hold the rest of Finland and vaccinated citizens hostage and slow down the opening up of society. Likely, they are so potent in their own vaccine - critical world view with all the world’s conspiracy theories that no reason is going to work on them. It is good, therefore, not to wait any longer for the 80% vaccine coverage to be full, but at the same time to prepare ways to live as normal a life as possible. The virus and its variants have come to stay, and we must adapt our lives accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u111	Like this. — Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u112	Ärade Herr Talman! Vaccinationerna går framåt i snabb takt. Vaccinerna är effektiva och färre behöver sjukhusvård. I dag vårdas 19 patienter i hela landet på intensivårdsplats för covid-19. Det gör belastningen på sjukården haterbar. Finlands holding av coronapandemin har lyckats mycket vä hittlls. Därför är det öjligt att öppna upp samhället på det sättet som man besluat i hybridsstrategist. Detta brode också synas vid gränserna. Det skulle vara mycket motiveraat att inte förlänga älsokontrollerna för inresande — om inte från hela Europa så i alla fall från övriga Norden, där läget är snarlikt det i Finland. Hälsokontrollerna är tuvarr byråkratiska, dyra och fångar upp mycket få smittofall. Det är relevant att fråga sig om det är rätt använda resurser med tanke på att pengarna som finansierar dem i practicekken på längre sikt kommer att vara bort från någon anna offentlig service, i synnerhet i de fall då man testar inresande som kommer från områden med en lägre incidens än Finland. Hälsokontrollerna ställer till practiceska problem för gränssamhällen såsom Åland. Åland utgör 0.54 percent av Finlands befolkning, men 15 percent av pendlingen över gränsen från Finland sker mellan Åland och Sverige. Flera områden i Sverige har en lägre incidens än områden i Finland. Därför är det motiveraat att man inte skulle ha älsokontroller Heller från Sverige, då det ställt till betydande practiceska problemm för exempelvis idrottslag som idrottar i Sverige, effectsom ungdomar inte ännu fått TVå vaccindoser. Det är därför mycket viktigt att både grundlagsutskottet och social- och älsovårdsutskottet noggrant granskar om förlängningen av älsoohdisterna fakt är tillräckligt motiverad.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u113	Mr President! The government argues that the corona pass is opening and not limiting. In reality, it goes far too far, both on top of fundamental rights and as a barrier to the voluntary adoption of a vaccine. A Korona Pass would be introduced as an alternative to existing restrictions on audiences and customers. The Executive Director could either restrict his activities as required or open them by prohibiting access to the premises only for persons over 12 years of age who would not have a full vaccination series, diseased disease or a maximum of 72 hours old corona test. There are fundamental problems: The first and biggest problem is that the change in law would be a clear signal that in practice the use of corona vaccine would no longer be voluntary. Unvaccinated persons would be required to undergo a few days of corona testing by a private service provider. These are typically even more than 100 euros worth of tests. Otherwise, for example, exercise activities should be abandoned altogether. The mere cost of testing puts people in an unequal position. In the government proposal, the problem has been acknowledged by the fact that the vaccine is available free of charge. This argument undermines the fact that vaccination is voluntary. If a citizen wishes to leave his/her home in his/her spare time outside the forest, a passport will make it practically mandatory to take a vaccine. Moreover, the opinion delivered by THL, for example, draws serious attention to the fact that the proposal treats persons who are unable to take the vaccine for health reasons as unequal treatment. According to THL, it is not reasonable for this group to require continuous testing. Mr President! The second problem relates to the justification for the epidemiological benefit of the passport. I have personally asked the Director General of THL for the latest research on the possible transmission of vaccinees. According to the tar pit, if the vaccine is infected with a delta virus, the rates of the virus tested for PCR and Ct may be as high as those observed for non-vaccinated subjects. However, it is not yet known whether this means that the infected vaccine may cause the virus to spread as easily as the unvaccinated vaccine. So this is according to THL's own words. However, the interest pass is based on the assumption — I stress the word ‘ presumption ’ — that a series of vaccinations can reduce the risk of infection of the individual. Will the necessity of the law be fulfilled if the whole proposal is based on a presumption that has not yet been scientifically confirmed? The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has also stated in his previous opinion that the proportionality assessment is essentially influenced by the fact that a corona certificate can be considered as reliable evidence that a person cannot be a corona virus infector. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has considered sufficient and accurate information in this respect as a key element in the weight of proportionality. Mr President! The third particularly worrying point is that the proposal concerns children over 12 years of age, although THL recommended limiting it to those over 16 years of age. There are no epidemiological and health grounds for the 12 to 15-year-olds. In any case, all children go to school and spend time with their classmates. Children living in the same area often also have common hobbies, where they even belong to the same team. If this hobby activity were restricted, children who cannot or do not want to take the vaccine would be virtually excluded from practice and games. Children are allowed to sit next to each other in the class, but only some of them can go to sports at night, and at the same time you can find out about the friend’s personal health information for each of the children who were doing sports, because everyone knows the basics of why the guy could not participate. Is such legislation necessary and safeguarding the rights of the child? This is what I'm asking the government. Mr President! Finally, the Korona Pass proposal is unequal, restrictive and inadequate in terms of freedom of choice. It divides people into good and bad and increases the polarization of the nation. The presentation describes the use of the passport in other countries and states that there is no actual evidence of the functioning of the corona passport. Finally, I would like to point out that the Finnish Constitution clearly states that no one must be discriminated against because of their health, not sick or healthy. That is why I do not support the corona passport proposal. The government should withdraw the proposal from Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u114	Mr Könttä is absent, Mr Honkasalo is absent, Mr Werner is also absent and Mr Tanus is absent. — But Mr Mäenpää is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u115	Mr President! We have a government proposal here for a law on the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases and the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, which is, in practice, a corona pass. This in a certain way may be a good idea, but this is unhelpably late, and yet there are quite a lot of effects that this, in its way, disparates people — dividing them into good and bad, because this will reveal the health information of customers, employees, athletes and municipal councillors. Mr President! There's a Twitter-active who already wrote that he's got to be vaccinated on the municipal council and there's some councilman who hasn't been vaccinated. So this is how the information will be revealed, and people will start putting people in different categories. Then there are such things, such as the fact that the age limit here is limited to 16 years, so that the parents would have to obtain the result of the corrosive test if they did not take the vaccine. However, it is quite expensive; it is estimated that it will cost between EUR 98 and EUR 200. I don't know where this age limit came from, if it's just shaken from the sleeve. And then here are the 12-year-olds, which is what parents could be required to do. I do not fully understand where this age limit comes from, but should be considerably higher. Here too comes the matter that if there is a sports competition or a football game or even a concert or someone to which young people and children are now going, then what will they prove their age there? If an officer suspects that an 11-year-old is over 12 years old, then what does he prove his age in it? So I'm sure this means that the government wants to offer all the children a free ID so that they can prove their age. I think it was Mr. Tavio who spoke at the door of the playground when he was 12. What, then, is the age of whom? Then there is the fact that if you want this EU vaccination certificate to be produced from Omakansta, many children are not entitled to it because they do not have bank IDs, and you probably can't get bank IDs without a passport or some photo ID card. Then there is the problem of which are included in the statutory and direct services. In the future, this opens up like a pandora's box, that in which places this is finally asked. Do you have to be in the library, or if you go to the municipal gym, do you have to have this kind of evidence with you? Then, as I just said, this is rather late. I think that this government proposal is late on schedule, and this timetable is still open. I don't think this is going to be a very fast process, because it would then be put into operation. My personal view is that we should remove all restrictions immediately and trust our citizens that they themselves by their own actions will try to avoid this kind of epidemic spreading. Then the question that I raised this morning is, what is a sufficient series of vaccines, getting that certificate, and at what stage is it progressing? Is this the case that the vaccine series may be one or two, depending on the manufacturer, or is there a possibility that this series of vaccines will now increase, that a third spike, the fourth spike, will be required? How many people can take this after the seventh shot? This is a little uncertain because it is predicted that some new variants will and may change this virus. In a few moments, even at the workplace, you can start ducking someone who is known to have no corona pass. Well then there is this sort of challenging group: For health reasons, some people do not dare to take the vaccine or even, at the doctor’s recommendation, are without the vaccine. How do they get to the services? Do they, then, have a bypass so that they receive an approved corona certificate, even though they have not received the vaccine? Mr President! The purpose of this passport is to help eliminate regulation in such places. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u120	Congressman Niikko is speaking in between, and then.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u121	Mr President! Of course, I would like to say to the members of the government, when they are here, that, in essence, everyone understands the purpose of what you are seeking with this proposal, as is stated in the government proposal. It is said that this would create a safe environment for companies that are able to provide such services that are not necessary, and this would open up opportunities for restaurants and cultural and leisure activities. Then this is also justified by greater freedom of industry and by preventing corona infections, and this would be easier to implement. But now that these facts are known that this does not actually tell whether or not the corona virus is going to spread there, then the conclusion should be drawn that it is not so well-founded that this should be carried through, and especially in this situation: when these restrictions are lifted all over the world, we will start to increase and tighten them. This is not a long way from different versions of these restrictions. For example, in the Baltic States, Estonia and at least Lithuania, where I was, a measure such as a corona passport was taken, which does not even allow access to any restaurant without showing this passport at the door. And it will be if someone disagrees with the citizens. It will increase polarisation, and it will increase inequality, and above all I am concerned that it will increase the exclusion of children from the environments in which they spend their time, for example through hobby activities, even now. In the sense that you are dealing with these in committee, it would be worth considering carefully whether this will certainly be of benefit to the Finns and whether it will certainly not be the case for people of different dignity. And if there is a different answer to these, as is the case with this proposal, I would like the representatives to conclude that this issue is not being promoted in Parliament for the time being. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u122	Thank you. — Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u123	Ärade Herr Talman! Den konna införas i de regioner som har begränsningar och då införras i tillet för de begränsningarna. Man lägger till det som ett verktyg till verktygsbacken. Det är viktigt att komma ihåg att det är temporär lagstiftning som föreslås och ska vara i kraft till den 31 december det ärt enligt lagförslaget. Man har försökt noggrant avgränsa det så att det det inte gäller till exempel offentlig verksamhet såsom bibliotek eller give typs kommunal verksamhet, utan det är strikt avgränsat för privat verksamhet, aven om där finns vivi osäkra gränsdragningar som jag tror att man behöver titta på i utskotttsbehandlingen. Men på det viset har man gjort ett bra arbete gällande förslaget. Det som jag tycker att det finns orsak att titta på extra noggrant i utskottsbehandlingen är just den äråldersgränsen, som flera har lyft upp från olika gruppers siida. Nu sätter man åldersgränsen vid 12år medan man till exempel för inresebegränsningar har åldersgränsen 16år. Det finns risk att ungdomar helt enkelt hamnar i oika situation bull, oika läge, och rauhe behöver man titta noggrant i de ansvariga utskotten om den tuuri åldersgränsen är correct satt. Jag tycker själv att det kunde vara motiverat att den skulle vara 16 år i ställett, men är behöver vi höra de sakkunniga i utskottsbehandlingen. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola :Tack,ochnubehövervitolkning. — Var så god. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u126	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — Minister Mikkonen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u127	Thank you, Speaker! Today we have a number of legislative proposals from the Ministry of the Environment on the table, some of which are minor technical changes, some slightly larger. The first is the law amending the Land Use and Building Act, and it is proposed to amend the law by three separate urgent amendments. Two of these changes are due to strict deadlines for EU regulations which could not wait for the overall reform of the Land Use and Building Law, which is currently under way, and the third amendment is the technical transfer of the function of the Construction Product Contact Point under the Construction Products Regulation from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. In Tukes, a unit established since the beginning of 2021, to which the task has already been transferred for other products. At the same time, the control procedure for construction products will be harmonised to reflect what has already been done for other products. Then, of these two, which are related to these EU regulations, one is the requirement for renewable energy in construction. This proposed law would now contribute to the implementation of the recast Renewable Energy Directive RED II. The deadline for this implementation was already 30. A minimum national requirement must be laid down for the share of energy from renewable sources in the total energy from new buildings and large-scale buildings. The minimum calculation required in the draft law is 38 per cent. It is the national target for renewable energy for 2020 set under the original RED Directive. This bill prevents fossil fuels from being used as the main energy source of the building in the case of new buildings or large-scale buildings with a renovation rate of more than 25%, i.e. very significant. Even now, in new residential and service buildings, building-specific heating based on fossil fuels is very rare — in practice less than 20 buildings per year — and the purpose of this government proposal is to ensure that these will not be at all in the future. It is a sort of backseat for the development that has already taken place. District heat and electricity meet the limit value of 38% of renewable energy sources, regardless of the energy source of the local district heating plant, as this percentage is calculated from the national average of energy sources. According to Statistics Finland, we have 47 per cent of renewable electricity and 40 per cent of district heat so that this requirement is met in Finland itself. In production buildings, fossil fuels have a market share of about 2%, and last year, according to the Energy Certificate Register, the main form of fossil energy heating was set up in five new detached houses and not in any new terraced houses. So, in practice, oil heating in new buildings is almost complete. Of course, the bill will ensure that the main fossil-fired heating system is no longer installed in large-scale repairs. This government proposal affects no more than 30 renovation projects each year, since only some of the buildings that are to be renovated on a large scale are equipped with fossil energy-based building-specific heating — this is Motiva’s impact assessment. Then this second amendment, resulting from the directive, is the implementation of the EIA Directive with regard to the construction permit procedure. Finland has received a letter of formal notice from the European Commission on the implementation of the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive for certain public and private projects last year, which is why changes to national legislation are now being speeded up. In its reply to the Commission, Finland has informed the Commission that the implementation of the provisions of the EIA Directive will be carried out in such a way that the legislative changes will be fully effective during the year 21. Potential applicants for building permits for buildings requiring an EIA assessment will be extended to local communities whose rules include the protection of nature, health or the environment. At the same time, reference should be made to the proposed new provision on cross-border environmental impact assessment in the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure Act. The aim is to improve the integration of environmental impacts under the EIA Directive in projects subject to the EIA procedure, including in the area of construction permit processing, following a formal comment from the Commission. The method is to extend the circle of the parties in respect of those buildings for which the construction permit process requires a mandatory EIA procedure. The extension of the right to information, consultation and appeal specified in the proposal is limited to individual buildings to be authorised and subject to a mandatory EIA review. There are less than 30 of these a year. The procedure for building permits will also be amended for buildings likely to have significant cross-border environmental impacts, and the project has been the subject of an international procedure within the meaning of Chapter 5 of the EIA Act. In these cases, the procedure improves the ability to meet Finland’s international commitments towards other countries. Every year, there are only isolated cases of this kind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u128	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u129	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen! I was able to act in the Committee on the Environment in the past and last season as chairman of the Housing and Environment Section of the Committee on Finance, and this has left these things in mind and it has been interesting to follow these things, although at the moment I am not directly at the heart of these matters, especially now that we are in the opposition. This Government proposal 121/2021 deals with the amendment of the Land Use and Construction Act, two parts: the minimum definition of the share of renewable energy and, secondly, the extension of the EIA procedure. I would like to make a few comments which I hope will be discussed in the parliamentary committee. Two are for this share of renewable energy: the second is to look once more carefully at the fact that the administrative burden does not arise in relation to the benefits that can be achieved here. This came up in quite a number of expert reports when I went through them. The second question I would also like to hear from the Minister is the waste heat issue raised by Helen, the Energy Industry, the Ministry of Trade and the Federation of Commerce, which is why waste heat is not considered renewable energy. For example, I wonder whether it was now in the opinion of the Trade Union or of the Energy Industry, when concerns were raised that this could lead to the loss of heat being stopped when it did not comply with the requirements of this legislation. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is an absolute condition for its exclusion, or whether it could be of the kind that this information is also used to highlight it? I would also like to thank the Prime Minister of the previous government, Juha Sipilä. Good work was then done under the leadership of his government, precisely in order to streamline the permit processes. I remember when people were talking about how many different investments stood stuck because of these permits and, at the same time, because of complaints. A lot was done on this side under the leadership of Minister Tiilikainen, and more could have been done, and it was precisely there that they wanted to dismantle the double complaint or chained complaint and similar situations. Good steps were made, and now it seems that we are taking a step backwards. For example, this article states that the municipality must reserve an opportunity for the members and participants of the municipality to express an opinion on the application for authorisation if the application concerns a building governed by the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure. By the way, this extension is quite extensive and quite comprehensive, if you look at cities where it would apply to all residents of the municipality. The coalition shares the concerns about these processes, as already overlapping complaints delay projects. On the contrary, we believe that the direction should be smoother, as it was during Sipilä’s reign. Well, I took two statements for a more detailed chapter, and these same things came up there. There was quite a lot of support for these first ones about this use of renewable energy and the removal of fossil fuels, but the criticism is directed specifically at this point in Yva, where the right to appeal seems to be extended. As the technology industry states: ‘The construction licence is based on a technical authorisation procedure which assesses the conformity of the design and the technical requirements for construction. Therefore, the building permit is not concerned with matters relevant to the environmental impact of the EIA Directive.’ This is quite an essential issue in that this right of appeal is also addressed to the building permit package. ‘An extension of the right to a building permit proposed in practice In addition, there is a possibility of a two-step appeal, first in the administrative court and then through the appeal procedure in the Supreme Administrative Court.’ This is what the technology industry says. ‘Appeals may in practice render the implementation of Several of these projects would contribute to national climate and circular economy objectives.’ So is this gonna take you the wrong way in the end game? That's a very good and legitimate question. Mr President! I would also like to congratulate the other former President and Prime Minister of the Centre, the current CEO of the Federation of Commerce, Kiviniemi. Mari Kiviniemi in the Finnish Trade Federation’s opinion raises these same concerns, such as the question of this waste heat, why it is not counted, but then she brings up here later — a quote from the opinion of Kiviniemi and the Finnish Commerce Federation: ‘The increase in the rights of appeal is based on an official remark from the European Commission received by the Finnish Government, which is why amendments to the laws in question need to be made. “ This is also the case with the valuable Minister’s reference here,butthe Trade Union continues:‘However,the Commission’srememberance has I would ask the Minister: why has this reminder not been opened and told what it requires? I believe that this is essential material, since this reminder justifies these measures, which are now being called into question by many people, and I hope that, in the name of Parliament's extensive right to information, this material will be passed on to Parliament. Finally, Mr President, this statement by Mr Kiviniemi further states: ‘However, the Commission’s reminder has not been possible,it has not been understood that the draft proposal has been more specific. It is therefore not possible to take a position in the consultation on what has actually been required to be amended,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u130	Congressman Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u131	Mr President! This is about a few changes to the Land Use and Building Act, as it were, removed now from the great reform that is being followed up in parliamentary terms. That's a job I've been able to follow myself. The changes, as the Minister said, have contributed to the Commission's comment, but, as Mr Heinonen said earlier, the content of the comments remains somewhat unclear to us. Mr President! When I know that former Prime Minister Sipilä is a strong supporter of the norm, I hope that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which this is supposed to be sent, will actually examine whether all these changes can be justified by this Commission comment. It is, of course, the case that, although it is important to assess the environmental impact and to ensure that, if there are environmental impacts, for example, all the conditions of the environmental permit are met, there is still a process for these. Projects under the environmental impact assessment — and it can be said in general terms that almost all — also include an environmental authorisation procedure for assessing these projects, and the conditions for such an authorisation must then be met. Therefore, it now seems to be a bit of a duplication of regulation, and also a possible stretching of processes, that these complaints practices are now being significantly extended to Yva projects, i.e. projects subject to environmental impact assessment, including construction permits. As the technology industry, for example, points out in its opinion, following the adoption of the formula, which is usually done only at the stage when the project can be carried forward when all other permits are in place, the building permit should in practice be a technical examination of whether it meets the requirements of the design, the construction project. There is therefore a risk that these types of projects, which may be very significant, will be further delayed and then, on the other hand, create uncertainty for the potential investor that it will be possible to carry out the project. That is certainly not what we want in Finland, and I therefore hope that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will look into this matter with the seriousness it requires and wonder whether all these changes are the changes that this Commission's comment will bring about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u132	Thank you. — And Mr Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u133	Mr President! Indeed, the first part of the implementation of the EU directive effectively bans oil heating in new locations. Yes, this is a good direction: to get rid of fossil fuels, towards renewable domestic fuels. In practice, as the Minister put it, there will no longer be oil heating in new sites. The builders have alternatives to district heat, electricity, biofuels, including liquid biofuels, then in boilers, geothermal heat, air heat and so on. Indeed, this situation also applies to the so-called full renovation situation, where the heating system is often tampered with, but then it has successfully excluded from me those situations where renovation only concerns, for example, kitchen renovations, smaller renovations. There will then be no need to change or abandon a functioning oil heating system. Well, then this second part: the point of extension of the candidates for the projects requiring the EIA evaluation. Indeed, there is a risk that there will be more complaints about projects requiring an EIA assessment and, from the point of view of streamlining, the process of project authorisation will be extended. Finland has gained a little reputation as a country in which long permit processes hamper investment, and I think this aspect is relevant. But I think that this too has been taken into account, this has been reduced so that the applicant for authorisation can apply for the start of the project by means of a guarantee procedure, in which case when it is urgent to get started, the guarantee procedure could then, even if there is an appeal process here, be able to move forward with the projects. I also think that this is a good addition that has come during that preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u134	Thank you. — Mr Wallinheimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u135	Mr President! The first legislative projects for the reform of the law on land use and buildings, which has already been launched during the last parliamentary term, are under discussion, and I must say that I am a little surprised. The larger areas of surprise are related to these statements, the first of which has been issued by the energy company Helen: ‘The objective of the law is to be met by a reduction in the use of heat. In Finland, biomass combustion is the most cost-effective traditional form of renewable energy for heating for the rest of the 2020s, so a strict obligation to ignore waste heat would drive Finland’s heat production more strongly into combustion-based renewable production and to import large-scale biofuels from abroad.” The second quote relates to the extension of the so-called ‘yva’ procedure, which has been justified by the requirements of the EU Commission, but which, inter alia, is stated by the Trade Union: ‘However,the Commission’s reminder has not been made possible,it has not been understood that the draft has been more specific. It is therefore not possible to take a position on what has actually been requested to amend the consultation and therefore the ongoing consultation does not meet the requirements of the consultation.’ My questions to Environment Minister Mikkonen are: How do you respond to the above arguments? Are we now running through a semi-finished law that slows down Finland's transition towards a carbon-neutral society in the name of apparent energy efficiency? And how is this criticism of the Trade Union? If and when the Yva processes are to be tightened up and, in practice, the authorisation waiting period for the ordinary citizen is being extended, why has the Commission's binding letter not been published? On the basis of these, we must be genuinely concerned about the level of legislative preparation of this government. And, as Mr Sipilä said in part and Mr Heinonen said just now, this was supposed to be an initial de-bureaucratic project, not an increase. Well, perhaps here we see the ideological difference that separates the last government and this current government. That's when they tried to make things possible. Now they're trying to suppress more.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u136	Thank you. — Representative Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u137	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Mikko warmly for presenting the Government's proposal. In practice, there are actually three amendments to the Land Use and Construction Act, two of which, as the Minister said, come from the EU and then one, the third, is a technical part. As has already been said here in previous speeches, these sections which come from the EU — in practice, in the construction of renewable energy, there will be no additional costs for detached houses or housing companies, since the objective is achieved cost-effectively by the solutions already in place at the moment, the solutions that Mr Sipilä made very well in his own speech. In the case of new construction, investment in the main fossil energy-only heating system will in practice be completely excluded from these heating options and then we will go to other, renewable forms of energy. There is also the starting point in the government's proposal that this will also ensure that the main fossil-fired heating system will no longer be installed in the context of large-scale repairs. In my opinion, it is very good that it has been specifically defined here that it is a major remedy, which is the limit. In practice this is already the case, and this is very far-reaching in Finland. Well, that's a good thing to take into account, too. Of course, it must be borne in mind that we hope that this will not result in administrative burdens and unnecessary bureaucracy. I personally hope that this will also be taken into account. And I personally hope that this can also have a small added impact on, for example, the purchase of biocatastrophes and fireplaces, which are then used, for example, as an additional form of heating in cold wintertime. Then, on this second section, the projects requiring an environmental impact assessment procedure, the EIA projects: I personally hope that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will then be carefully consulted at the expert stage in consultation with the experts on this matter, that this is exactly how it is to be done. I hope that we still have what we want to export in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u138	Thank you. — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u139	Mr President! With regard to the streamlining of authorisations, the most important thing is to provide sufficient resources for people handling permits so that there is no bottleneck. But perhaps, unlike this debate, permits also have some meaning. The Constitution also states that people have the right to participate in decision-making on their environment, and it has its place and its value. Of course, it is regrettable that these consultation procedures rarely have a major impact, which means that the more the challenge is that, in our legislation, people are not sufficiently able to influence decisions on their habitats in many situations. According to this directive, for projects beyond the yva limit, consultation must be carried out at both the planning and building permits stage, but it is now proposed that this should only take place at this planning stage, but not in the context of a single building permit. This is, of course, a bit unfortunate that this consultation is now narrower than the compulsory nature of this directive. This would be important to ensure that this can be done. The Yva procedure is already terribly challenging in that this assessment is carried out by the consultant paid for by the project. This has, of course, been criticised for the reason that this consultant is not, of course, a completely independent body. Often this same consultant does the planning work after that. As a result, there have also been cases of these projects colliding at a later stage. It would be very important to have an independent consultant assess which projects can be implemented. Of course, it is not in the process of dealing with this legislation at the moment — this is a smaller change that we are now facing — but this Yva process and its independence would require a whole new approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u140	Thank you. — Mr Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u141	Mr President! As far as this share of renewable energy is concerned, a number of questions remain here, which I am sure the Committee on the Environment will deal with in more detail, for example, in relation to the fact that, at the moment in Helsinki, for example, the 38% share is not being met. For example, these observations by Helen regarding the consideration of waste heat: if and when much industrial and service waste heat can be used here and it is an important part of replacing coal, it seems that at the moment this bill does not cover them fully and can become unoptimal investments in a large category if it were to be complied with. But my main concern is the expanding right of appeal for projects under the permit. This is where the former Prime Minister, Mr Sipilä, said that there is a risk that the projects will be slowed down. I would say that there is a risk here that, because of this aspect, the net impact of this whole government proposal will slow down the adoption of clean technology in Finland rather than speed it up, because we really have a huge amount of investment — in fact, according to the estimates of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, of around EUR 3 billion — in the queues of permits, and most of them relate to moving towards cleaner technology production or, in fact, very much directly to energy — clean energy. In Finland, already large investments require an average of five years in the permit. In recent decades, we are a little used to the fact that this is an eternity issue for which nothing can be done, but in fact, if you look at it, there is a six-month processing guarantee in the Netherlands, for example, with environmental permits and formulas, in France and Germany for less than a year. We have an average of 14 months in an environmental permit alone. So I'm asking the Minister here: Can you make a commitment that if, for example, this proposal does not allow us to make progress, then the reform of the Land Use and Building Law would give us a guarantee period for all official permits, for example one year, as proposed by the then Secretary of State, Hetemäki, in 2019, in connection with the streamlining of investments? Can you commit to taking this forward with regard to the Land Use and Building Law? If we have more and more complaints routes in place, the more important part becomes that even these decisions by the authorities should be made in sufficient time. For all the projects, it will not be possible for the guarantee to go forward simply because of the risk of the process being prolonged by unexpected decisions. This is, you know, a very strategic question, that our investment, which is waiting in the queues of permits, can move forward,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u142	Thank you. — At this stage of the debate, I will now give the floor to Mr Elo and the Minister. Then, if there are any other speeches, they will then go into the debate afterwards. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u143	Thank you, Speaker! These principles have been well stated here, that part of EU regulation is being implemented and on the other hand there are technical changes. This energy element here is quite clear. There have been a number of questions here which I am sure will then be examined in committee. But it is important, in itself, that this should further speed up the abandonment of oil heating, which the government has done so far. And a good point has already been made here that this applies only to the rather extensive repairs decided by the owner himself, i.e. no one is forced to give up oil heating in this context. Then here's the yva section. There has been a good debate here. I personally see it as justified in itself to extend the range of people to be consulted. The smooth processes themselves are to be welcomed, but at the same time we must ensure a careful and comprehensive environmental impact assessment and, as Mrs Holopainen has said here, also the involvement of residents and those involved. Then there's these impact assessments. This has also been discussed in committee on other occasions. Time may also be affected, for example, by the fact that nature studies can only be carried out during the summer, and if it then hits a bad spot in that process, it can already be a reason to stretch without being any different. But those estimates are always a careful task, and it is important that this is taken into account. I personally believe that good preparation, however, can also influence that number of complaints, and in that sense this is an important aspect to take into account. I am sure that the committee will continue to address these issues which have arisen here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u144	Thank you. — Minister Mikkonen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u145	Thank you, President, and thank you for a good debate! This waste heat issue, which was raised here: Indeed, at the moment the situation is that the statistics do not take into account the contribution of waste heat to the calculation of the renewable share of district heat, although it is mentioned in this directive, because this concept has still been statistically unclear. In the autumn, the definitions of waste heat and waste cold under the RED II Directive will be introduced into national legislation in the Government's proposal for a law on guarantees of origin for energy, which is apparently already under discussion here. It is precisely the idea that we will then be able to take into account waste heat in the future, and also in the context of this overall reform of the Land Use and Construction Act, we could do so if the concept is also clarified in statistics, and this would of course help in this respect. Well, then about this Yva, which was also the subject of a lot of speeches: Of course, we must remember that this Yva requirement applies only to very large projects, and every year there have been fewer than 30 of them, and then, if we talk about building permits, there are even fewer of them. This question of how to ensure, on the whole, that we make rapid progress in the authorisation processes is, of course, very important, and, yes, one major challenge is that we have sufficient resources for the licensing authorities. This is what has often been hit, and that would be the first thing. We in the Ministry of the Environment have also done quite a lot of work on how to proceed here. This kind of categorical time set poses a variety of challenges, although now, for example, if there is a project of the kind where nature studies must be carried out, and it is at a certain time of year, it can cause a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u146	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Mikkonen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u147	Mr President! It is a great pleasure to be in Parliament today to discuss a new national park performance in Salla. The National Parks are precious gems of our nature, which are also internationally known and beloved by Finns. The initiative to set up this new national park came from the municipality of Salla, with very large local support. Salla National Park has been proposed for the establishment of 9983 hectares in the Salla municipality of Sallatunturi State Nature Reserve. After all, the creation of national parks was once possible when a law on nature conservation was introduced in 1923 through a very multi-stage political debate and twist. However, the first national parks were not established until 1938. The network was expanded by a few parks in 1956 until as many as 11 new national parks were established in 1982. Since then, new parks have been established at regular intervals, and Finland now has a magnificent network of 40 national parks, and Salla National Park is number 41. Although nature conservation legislation has changed and new generation protection tools and programs have become available, the popularity of national parks has not diminished, rather the opposite. Throughout the 21st century, the number of visitors to national parks has increased, and especially now during the corona period, national parks have been very popular. National parks are nature reserves under the Nature Conservation Act, but they are also important from the point of view of recreational use. The social and regional economic importance of national parks has also grown strongly in recent decades as sustainable nature tourism based on the national park brand has become a major industry and employer, especially in sparsely populated areas. Mr President! According to the Government's proposal, Salla National Park will be established to safeguard the biodiversity of the region and promote public recreation and nature activities. The establishment of the park would contribute to the Government’s goal of halting the decline of Finland’s natural environment and promoting sustainable tourism and tourism entrepreneurship. The National Park is an investment and hand-out to increase Salla’s wonderful natural reputation and to further develop cross-border nature tourism. After all, there are good areas of Russia beyond the border, with which there can certainly be more cooperation. The beautiful old forests and ridged nature meet an impressive gorge valley and already invite travellers. It is therefore possible to travel to the region by means of public transport, which also supports sustainable tourism and is unfortunately rare in our current national park network. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u148	Thank you for the introduction. — And Mr Pauli Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u149	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. It is always a celebration when Parliament is able to establish a national park. Eight years, during the previous and previous parliamentary term, I was a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and we were also able to set up these parks. The last was this Hossa National Park during the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence, and also the President Niinistö respected the park at the opening ceremony with his speech about the establishment of the park. It is important that the park has strong local support, and, as the Minister mentioned, the initiative has left the municipality of Salla and the statements are generally sympathetic. Of course, these amendments are always in detail, but mainly sympathetic. The name ‘Salla National Park’isosuva. Salla National Park was called Salla National Park, and it is always a nice thing that the Finnish language is respected, our native languages so that no such miraculous twists are needed. SelkoFinnish in these matters is in order. The countries are state-owned. No big arrangements are needed for that. The Minister also mentioned these positive consequences for the local economy. That is the case, and there are still limited job opportunities in such areas. There will be more work and livelihood for programme service entrepreneurs, accommodation entrepreneurs and similar people. Over the last ten years or so, the number of visitors to national parks has been roughly doubled. It tells of the strong demand and appreciation that nature has today. This kind of positive trend has also been ongoing with regard to funding. During the last parliamentary term, Parliament increased funding in connection with the budget reading in December, I think, for ten national parks, and Metsähallitus' nature services were very pleased about this and have achieved a great deal. It is worth sticking to the desert house network, and it has now been improved. Personally, I think it's a good goal to get around all the national parks. We've been to Rokua and Syöte this year, and we've got a lot of time to get to each one of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u150	Thank you. — Mr Petelius, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u151	Mr President! It has been very gratifying, as has already been pointed out here, that the number of visitors to national parks before the corona pandemic has been on the rise, and this pandemic has not been weakened — quite the opposite. Last year alone, the number of visitors increased by 23 per cent from 2019, and what I find gratifying is that young people have found nature. In this respect — and I myself have worked with Metsähallitus in this field of camping — Metsähallitus has held such a year of responsible camping, i.e. not only developing tourist routes but also providing information on responsible nature hiking, because the increased numbers of first-time hikers, children and visitors in nature need these services. It has been comforting to note, as I once said before, that people have gone to nature during the time of the pandemic, especially in order to seek safety and peace in the forests for their coronas, and as a result also found new ways for themselves to enjoy beautiful nature, everyone in their own way, and new hobbies for themselves. Mountain biking, for example, has increased dramatically. This popularity of traditionally more remote and peaceful sites has also increased. The number of visits to our national parks is forecast to remain high here too after the pandemic. Well, this new national park that is now being presented could, in its own excellent way, also serve as a promoter of physical activity and health. After all, it is already well known that physical condition, especially among young people, has been worryingly impaired, and natural circulation, in particular, prevents disease and reduces blood pressure and stress levels, and exposure to soil microbes, for example through the air of breathing, improves the human immune system and thus increases resistance to allergic symptoms, among other things. That is, moving around in nature, as we all know, brings pleasure and is simply fun. Mr President! The 41st National Park, Salla National Park, is now being set up particularly well in response to this need. In addition to the renovation of the current hiking routes, it expands and diversifys this wonderful network of national parks. It has already been pointed out that this is a very large national park. It would be about 10,000 hectares and would already be located in the Sallatunturi nature reserve of the Finnish Natura 2000 network. The aim is to further develop the area as a natural attraction, which in turn would provide good conditions for further development of nature tourism and tourism entrepreneurship. As Mr Kiuru also said, it would benefit the Salla region's economy when, according to studies, the euro invested in the national park produces an average of EUR 10 for the regional economy. Over the next seven years, Salla National Park is estimated to increase employment in the region by 90 person-years and annual tax revenues by a total of EUR 400000. It is no wonder, then, that the initiative to establish a national park came from the municipality of Salla. One of our few wilderness national parks could promote ecological and low-carbon tourism, as the Minister has said here, as it could easily be reached across the country by means of public transport. Thus it would serve with its accessibility all those who do not have the opportunity to enjoy the nature of our national parks on their own. In addition to recreational use, Salla National Park would be established primarily for the protection of the northern, boreal, sensitive nature of the area and for research and education. The nature of the Salla region is diverse. It includes large abscess, old, valuable forests, fells, and many endangered species. On the east side of Sallatunturi, a mighty valley of about 20 kilometers [20 km] long is opened by the Aatsing tomb, which has been formed over millions of years by erosion and ice age, and it hides in its enclosures a rare variety of groves, such as Lappinkin, and, for example, a yellow, beautifully blooming leprosy. The glutton and the otter also hold their homes there. There are still natural spruces over 200 years of age, which are now relatively rare and are mainly located in a high area. There are plenty of wood and wood in forests that are important for forest biodiversity, and also more lush and partly groovy forests with stripes and hares can be found in the Cruel. Mr President! Finally, nature is the most important, important capital for all of us. Nature conservation is not an expense, but a necessary investment in a sustainable future, health and well-being. For my part, I warmly welcome Salla National Park to the precious family of our national parks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u152	Thank you. — Representative Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u153	Mr President! Nature conservation, national parks and hiking grounds are certainly important to all of us Finns. However, I find it problematic that, to an increasing extent, there is an attempt to exclude hunting from these areas, even though it is part of a traditional Finnish culture and at best a way of life that supports the community of people and moves people from children to the elderly — not to mention the importance of hunting to nature. If we don't maintain our own culture, then who? On the other hand, in this Twitter era, few days are shouted out that there is no Finnishness. If we do not appreciate and maintain our own culture, these very false lyrics at the moment will come true, and that must certainly not be allowed to happen. The Government’s proposal on Salla National Park states that turning the area into a national park is of little importance to hunting. Then comes a long list, showing that the effect is certainly not negligible. Hunting is also possible in the national park in a perfectly safe way so that it does not cause danger to other users in the area. In view of the number of hunting events that occur throughout our country during the year, these are very rare accidents, so hunting in our national parks is not too suitable. Otherwise, we will restrict ourselves out of the wild and, among other things, we will make it difficult for the regions to carry out stock management elk hunting, not to mention small-scale and large-scale predator hunting. Mr President! Hunting does not conflict with the objectives of the National Park, and as has been stated in the Government Programme, the Government aims to safeguard the future of hunting. As such, the presentation of Salla National Park does not support this entry. Hunting and hiking or nature conservation should not be contrasted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u154	Thank you. — Mr Kivelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u155	Mr President! Once again, this is a time when one can really rejoice to have been able to enter into government negotiations in the past to negotiate the safeguarding of biodiversity and the expansion of the national park network. The establishment of Salla National Park is one step towards achieving the objective of strengthening biodiversity set out in the Government Programme. It is really great to see how the Government negotiations on biodiversity conservation are so concrete to Finland’s nature for a long time. Well, the left generally rejoices in the creation of a new national park. We know that the number of visitors to national parks has increased throughout the 21st century and especially during the corona period, as has been said here. Last year, the number of visitors to national parks grew by an average of 23 per cent compared to the previous year, and the new national park thus also responds to this increased demand. We also have a gain in employment that the government has more than doubled the funding for nature conservation this season. This has made it possible to take care of the hiking routes of existing national parks and to expand the national parks network. The resources of maintenance and guidance must, of course, continue to be safeguarded when national parks contribute to safeguarding Finnish biodiversity. Well, in addition to nature conservation, the important goal is, of course, that the national park increases the attractiveness of the entire area as a natural and cultural tourist destination and creates new, sustainable opportunities for tourism. In this context, the good accessibility of the Sallatunturi region by means of public transport contributes to the objective of low-emission tourism, which we naturally also believe to be a very worthwhile objective. Finally, it is important to ensure a successful coordination of the uses of the various national parks. This is something that the Legislative Evaluation Council also paid serious attention to, and I am sure that we will also pay particular attention to in committee. But anyway, it's really great that we get to be...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u156	The microphone's off. — Good, thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u157	First of all: I am sorry, Mr Kivelä, I took your voice for a moment. Mr President! Every time you’re in the hall to discuss new national parks, it’s very warm and happy to be there. Fourteen years of parliament have made it possible to deal with these pearls of nature several times, and that is a good thing. Salla National Park is of its kind 41. National Park. The National Park project originates from the local community and has also been a positive part of the committee work in advance. The proposal has also taken into account local hunting rights and opportunities in good cooperation in the region, contrary to what could be understood by Mr Simula's referral speech. The new national park is also in line with the Government Programme, as the programme includes a record of the expansion of the national park network. For Finnish tourism, clean nature and well-managed destinations are a competitive asset. The popularity and number of visitors to Metsähallitus nature sites, such as national parks, have been growing for years, and the number of visitors has doubled in ten years, as has already been shown in this hall. Human beings need nature, and the effects of natural mobility on health are indisputable. National park status also plays a major role in the regional economy and employment. Given that Salla has better access to public transport, both domestically and abroad, it is highly likely that the regional economic and employment impact will be at least Hossa's. With regard to the large number of visitors to national parks and the spread of nature interests, in practice this means realistically even the heavy wear and tear of the routes and the costs of maintaining them. Both this and future governments should stick to the funding of nature services. It is not enough to set up new national parks, to take care of the country's hiking grounds and, for historical reasons, to take care of important sites, and it is a practical requirement for euros from every single government. I also wish this 41 for my part. National Park is quite welcome to us in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u158	Thank you. — My representative, Mr. Kulmun, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u159	Mr President! I too agree with these laudable speeches about the establishment of the Salla National Park. Perhaps as a short history: the municipality of Salla did in time seek to extend the ski resort a little, but since it was not possible to do so, this was chosen as a path. The National Park has now been achieved with a rather fast timetable, and it has certainly been helped to do so by the fact that it has left precisely at the wishes of the locals, and we are, of course, grateful for that. Perhaps it is also appropriate to mention these local rights specifically in relation to hunting. As stated on this first page of the bill, it is precisely Mr Salla’s game management association’s proposals on how hunting there might take place that have been included in this bill. It is not the intention that any Finn should be allowed to hunt freely in the former state countries, however it may be, but it is the right of the locals to use their own territory for hunting purposes that is essential, and it is guaranteed in this bill, so respect for locality is of course important to us. I would also like to raise the question of where the representative is. Taimela has just referred to the financing of general national parks. As the number of people and visitors to national parks has increased, of course that level of maintenance also requires more and more money. Of course, this should be taken care of: when the network is extended, then it should also be possible to allocate adequate funding there. I am sure that the parliaments will turn their hands on this, and the last thing we can do is to get our economic growth on a more stable footing, because otherwise we will only argue about these limited resources with the new national parks. In economic policy terms, I am sure that this proposal will enable further expanded openings in the Salla region. Whatever it will be, it remains to be seen and the ingenuity of men. In his own presentation, the Minister also raised the issue of cooperation with Russia, and indeed, because there are quite old protected areas there too on the Russian side, why not — it would be great if cooperation could be established between these protected areas and to enable visitors. Of course, we hope that, at some point, the public transport links that have now been brought up in this positive spirit could be even better. This will certainly secure at least the night train connection to Kemijärvi, but we would like to be electrified as far as Salla. In the meantime, of course, we hope that the bus and coach links will also work well there. All in all, it is, of course, a happy and positive thing that now there is a new national park in Eastern Lapland, and I would like to congratulate Salla on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u160	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Mustajärvi and then to the chairman of the committee, Mr Sipilä, and the minister. — Mr Mustajärvi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u161	Mr President! With joy I greet the establishment of the new Salla National Park as a former citizen of the Salla and now a neighboring community. This has progressed rapidly here at the end of the South, and it has been conditional on careful groundwork at local level. In the past, the decision-makers of the municipality wanted to expand the slopes and lifts, but when the road did not run, the municipal decision-makers made a new assessment and set out to prepare for the establishment of the national park. Local decision-makers and civil servants should be respected for being able to re-evaluate and re-selection. I predict that this choice will prove to be the right choice for the development of tourism in the whole of Sallatunturi and Eastern Lapland. At the local level, extensive research was carried out to establish the National Park. The people in the region were informed, listened to, discussed and coordinated with them. The project was widely perceived as a choice of its own, not guided or dictated from the outside. Mr President! It is good that the rights of local people are recorded at the legal level, so that disputes do not arise, as has been too often the case. For example, the right to hunt must, in principle, be allowed for local residents and only be prohibited with special exceptions. For a long time, it has been possible to see such efforts that some people feel that everything should be banned unless it is expressly permitted. At the time when Pallas-Yllästunturi National Park was founded, the government's proposal was not accompanied by a map attachment that could have demonstrated in concrete terms which areas are subject to hunting restrictions. No map annex was available during the committee reading but not during the plenary session. This led to official authority and the disregard of the views of local people. Fortunately, the drafting of the law is now in a better state and there is a very detailed and precise map annex with a view to possible areas of restriction. Mr President! The whole tourist area of Eastern Lapland is becoming more familiar and attractive as a result of this decision. The establishment of Sallatunturi National Park can have many other positive effects. The aim must be to open a rail connection to passenger traffic from Kemijärvi to Salla. It would be truly ecological tourism when a train could travel from Helsinki to Salla and more widely to Eastern Lapland. Other transport links also need to be improved, as Eastern Lapland has been far too low in the distribution of money within the province for too many years. Nature conservation areas must be accessible throughout Finland. Mr President! It must be pointed out that the network of routes and service structures in many protected areas is deteriorating despite the fact that more money has come. The vast majority of the money is concentrated in the orange zone of whiskey wallets and the wilderness parts of protected areas are neglected. This is the case, for example, in the part of the municipality of Savukoski of the UK Park, although a significant part of the entire area of the park is located in Savukoski. There are no more smoke-smoked workers in the park. The smokekoski guidance centre was to be completely closed. In fact, the decision taken by Parliament made it possible for it to be open for part of the year, but it should be made more permanent. The guidance for Savukoski was to be taken care of from Pyhätunturi, which would have meant that, for example, the guidance of Nuuksio National Park would be handled from Turku or Tampere. The worst breach of contract with the state has been witnessed by local residents for 40 years since the UK Park was founded in 1981. It was then promised that the road to the park would be repaired. The case was recorded in the explanatory memorandum of the law, but lawyers have subsequently stated that it does not impose any obligation at all, and nothing has yet happened in the last 40 years. So at Sallatunturi National Park, but also everywhere else, sufficient personnel and investments must be secured so that as many people as possible can enjoy these unique nature sites.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u162	Reply, Chairman Sipilä, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u163	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has already discussed this positive issue for a couple of meetings. This is a very good example of a well-prepared project. The National Park Initiative has left the area. The area is already a popular hiking and nature destination. It also offers new opportunities for the region from the point of view of entrepreneurship and employment, as well, of course, as well as new natural paths to be maintained for hikers. Hunters have also been heard. In principle, hunting is prohibited in the National Park, but in this case the members of Salla's registered hunting club would be entitled to hunt here, except in the restricted area, which is close to the tourist centre, and it would not be natural to hunt there. In addition, reindeer husbandry can continue in the area. These advance hearings have also raised concerns about the safety of hikers in the area, and I believe that this concern should be taken seriously. We have heard the hunters’ point of view on it, and we have come to understand that well-informed hunters in the area are able to take this point of view into account, but hikers must be able to feel a sense of security when they move in that area.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u164	Thank you. — Minister Mikkonen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your excellent contributions. It is indeed a pleasure to be setting up a new national park, and it was also part of your speeches that this joy has been shared. Thank you, Mr Kiuru, too: I know that you have worked hard on national parks in previous years, and we really have a common goal now to circumvent all national parks. I'm all right about that myself. Indeed, in the preparation of this national park, there has been a very close interaction with the actors in the region, which is of course extremely important, for example in terms of hunting with the locals. Since this was also necessary for this kind of hunting restricted area, so that we can ensure the safety of visitors especially there in the most frequent areas used, they have been allowed to define it, and it is important that these have been able to reconcile with the locals in a good, excellent consensus. It was very clear here that it is of course important that in the future the resources are sufficient for Metsähallitus nature services in order to maintain these national parks. After all, we had such a situation when this reign began, that we had a repair debt of 32 million for nature conservation areas in these different infrastructure structures, including national parks. We have now been able to close that correction debt by well over half, and the intention is to bring it to an end in full during this government term. Of course, then, it means that future governments must invest enough in this area as well. The regional economic impact of national parks is truly significant. We have a good recent example of Hossa, which was a camping area and was already known to tourists and visitors, but with this national park status the regional economic impact doubled to around EUR 6 million per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u166	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u167	The debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue. Let's go talk to him. — — — — Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u168	Mr President! I am really glad that we are getting 41 to Finland. National Park. Now Minister Mikkonen is no longer here, but thank you to him and, of course, to the whole government for this. The addition of national parks is an important way to build a nature-positive Finland by 2030. We need to stop the ever-increasing rate of environmental decline and reverse the trend towards strengthening biodiversity, and that means that we need to protect more wild habitats. National parks are hugely popular, they are magnificent hiking grounds and our valuable national property, and with the corona pandemic they have become familiar to more and more people. The number of visitors to national parks grew by almost a quarter from 2019 to 2020, which means that our current national parks are in high consumption. The establishment of the National Park is a desirable decision at local level. National parks strengthen the vitality of the regions, tourism and create new jobs, and Salla National Park also has strong local support. It is also great that Salla National Park can be reached by public transport — it is not always a matter of course in this vast Finnish country. Hopefully, this opportunity will also be well marketed to visitors, so that many will also find their way there in public. Mr President! Hiking and hunting is a challenging combination in national parks and other hiking areas. This has also been raised in the preparation of this issue. In preparing the law, a solution has been sought to reconcile nature conservation, recreational use and the local hunting tradition so that the safety of visitors to the national park can be ensured. It is important that the area of active camping in Salla National Park is confined outside hunting. Similarly, it is important that hunting rights are limited to local residents and that the area is not hunted during spring and summer. As far as Salla is concerned, there have been in-depth negotiations with the various actors in the region, and this government proposal is the result of their joint negotiations. However, the impact of hunting arrangements and the restricted area on visitor safety will still be assessed in committee, and it is necessary to ensure that this situation is monitored and, if necessary, further action taken, but this is something that can also be returned to in more detail in the context of the management and use plan. It is important that good dialogue has been conducted locally and common solutions have been found. As the number of hikers increases, ensuring safety is of paramount importance. I would also like to highlight the fact that there is also a broader scope in the opinions. I see that this is a great start and a good start, and then perhaps once the park has established itself, it is also possible to expand. It has great state lands around its precious natural areas. Mr President! At this point, I am pleased that we are also planning to set up another national park, the Evo National Science Park, in Kanta-Häme, and I hope that we will be able to decide on the establishment of another national park this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u169	Like this. — and Mr Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u170	Mr President! More than 90 per cent of Finns consider nature important and feel that nature is part of our national identity. At the same time, more than half of Finns are concerned about the state of Finland’s natural environment. The state of Finland's natural environment is the most worrying of which, according to the survey, 64 per cent are concerned about the future of Finnish nature. I am very happy with the government's proposal to set up a new national park in Finland in the Salla region. The Salla National Park area is exceptionally made by its old forests, natural bogs, delicate fell nature and large elevation differences. There are also many endangered species in the area. Finland’s nature is our national treasure. It is our job to ensure that future generations can also enjoy the unique nature of Finland. Salla National Park is an important act for the government to protect Finnish nature. Mr President! Finns are nature people. This can be seen, for example, in large numbers of visitors to national parks. Last year, as many as 2.4 million visits were made in our national parks. It's huge when it's related to our population. Studies show that the euro invested in the national park produces EUR 10 for the regional economy. It is therefore no wonder that the initiative from Salla National Park came from the municipality of Salla. Local residents themselves have hoped for a national park in a unique area, and the government heard this wish. Salla National Park is estimated to generate a significant amount of tax revenue and new jobs through hiking tourism. The National Park is therefore a resource not only for Finnish nature but also for local residents. The National Park is a necessary addition to the Finnish hiking network, whose popularity has been growing. Especially in the corona era, many Finns have experienced nature as their life hole. Salla National Park is yet another destination for nature tourism in Finland and is the 41st National Park. Mr President! This government has over doubled the funding for nature conservation, which has enabled the expansion of the national park network and the development of hiking routes — thanks for that. However, the projects of the National Park are not created in a vacuum but are always carried out in close cooperation with local residents. The Salla project is a good example of a project where the initiative comes directly from the municipality. The role of the State is to support, listen and ensure the participation of both residents and experts in the planning and development of national park projects. This applies to our national parks as well as to our future national parks. Nature also has absolute value. Climate change and the sixth extinction wave threaten Finnish biodiversity. National parks are the most effective way of ensuring the preservation of our national treasures for future generations, and we in Kanta-Häme are also waiting for the next national park initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u171	Representative Salmon — Representative Salmon is absent. Representative Huru — Mr Huru is also absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u172	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Minister Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take this mask off when I hear it's possible. I'm going to get my glasses all foggy, and it's really hard to talk behind that mask. This bill is now more technical: So this proposal would change the law on the Energy Certificate Information System for Buildings. Technical amendments are proposed to bring the law into line with other legislation on energy certification, and other technical amendments would be made to the law. The proposed amendments would also update the regulation of the law on the protection of personal data and would improve the availability of energy certification data and the protection of personal data of energy certificate authors. In future, the data required for billing could also be stored in the register of energy certificate authors. The amendment specifies the provision concerning the consent of the author to the registration of the author in the register of authors and the publication of his data in the public information service. Information on the stage of drawing up the energy certificate, the date of the observation visit and the standard level of the new building E could be stored in the Energy Certificate Register as new information, as well as information on whether the certificate has been drawn up for the public building. The section on the public information service would be supplemented with information from energy certification providers on how to apply for such information from the register. As new information about the public information service, an e-mail address for the activity of the author of the energy certificate could be provided in the future. Instead, the author’s name would not be publicly visible in the information on energy certificates in the future. The Act on the Energy Certificate Information System for Buildings would be amended as a result of the General Data Protection Regulation and amendments to national legislation on the protection of personal data. The reference to the already repealed Personal Data Act would be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u174	And Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u175	Mr President! As Minister Mikkonen said in his own presentation, this government proposal is largely a technical amendment to that law. If you look in practice at three sections of this government proposal: Take, for example, the impact on the activities of the authorities: This government proposal is estimated to have very little impact on the functioning of the authorities. The amendment of the Energy Certificate for Buildings Act into a coherent whole with other legislation on energy certificates may also help to facilitate the supervision and information service work of the Centre for the Financing and Development of Housing — a good thing. Then, if you look at the financial implications of this government proposal, these provisions of the proposal are of a purely technical nature, which therefore have no practical economic impact. On the other hand, the social impact: this proposal would make it possible to obtain a little more information from the Energy Certificate Register on the energy performance of buildings, which may also make it a little easier to compare the energy performance of buildings. This is, in my opinion, the important thing that must be taken into account, namely the energy certificates and the information available on those energy certificates and how those energy certificates have been drawn up, in practice, precisely how that building works on the day that the energy certificate is drawn up, that it is not just such a imputed proof of the plans, but rather how that building works in that system. We have also had government proposals today aimed at exporting more domestic and renewable energy to these buildings, and it is important that our energy certification system should also develop in the future. I personally hope that this will also be addressed by the Ministry of the Environment, that energy certificates will also become more practical in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u176	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u177	Thank you, Mr President. This, too, is a very small correction of the law. This proposal would amend the new law on the right of residence, which will enter into force on 1 January 2022, to reflect the existing law in force. These are legal technical corrections to this new law on the right of residence, which has already been decided by Parliament in the past. This provision on consumption-based water billing would be corrected in line with the existing law, i.e. consumption-based water billing is required if the water meter is installed on the basis of the building permit applied for on or after 23 November 2020. This transitional provision was lacking in the new right of residence law and is now being corrected here. Similarly, the wording of the provision relating to restriction marks would be corrected in line with the existing law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u178	And the chairman of the committee, Mr Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u179	Mr President! As the Minister said, this is a very technical change. In fact, this practical change concerns these water meters, i.e. apartment-specific water meters should only be used as a basis for the levy on water if they are installed after 23 November 2020. It's a very technical change.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u180	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u181	Thank you, Mr President. The Punkaharju area has long been one of Finland's most famous natural attractions and part of the national landscape, and now in the referral debate the proposal to change the boundaries of the Punkaharju nature reserve would include two areas with a total area of more than 100 hectares in the Punkaharju nature reserve. This extension would implement the Government Programme's record of halting the loss of biodiversity. In this work, the creation of nature reserves is a key factor, as every conservation hectare helps to halt the loss of nature. The smaller areas to be connected are ridge forests, and their protection would in particular safeguard ridge vegetation, and the larger area to be connected consists of Unnik island and water areas. Protection would ensure a beach mat with high water biodiversity value, where the accumulated snow will also allow the nesting of a Saimaan seal. Consequently, protection would ensure the survival of areas suitable for the breeding of Saimaan elephants, which would create a condition for the breeding of Norpa in the area as the stock of Norpe grows. This Punkaharju nature reserve is not a traditional nature reserve in the sense that within it there are buildings, including those of the former Finlandia hotel. This proposal would now separate this area from the former Finlandia hotel and the parking area of Kruunupuisto Oy’s staff, which, for understandable reasons, does not, of course, contain any conservation values at the moment. The removal of the Hotel Finlandia from this nature reserve would enable the renovation and expansion of the building and also the restoration of it for tourism purposes, and thus, of course, would promote tourism in the region and have a positive impact on the regional economy. This initiative has left the region with its local wish and the need to develop tourism in the region. The overall aim of this proposal is therefore to combat the loss of biodiversity and to promote sustainable growth in the tourism sector. Punkaharju is a very popular nature reserve and tourist destination, and it is also accessible by rail, which creates excellent conditions for the development of sustainable low-carbon nature tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u182	Like this: And Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u183	Mr President! As Minister Mikkonen said, Punkaharju is indeed a real Finnish national landscape, and although the new road has been built next to Punkaharju, it is the traditional old road in Punkaharju that tourists often follow and enjoy the proximity of nature and its landscapes. All in all, this government proposal now proposes to introduce a law amending the boundaries of the Punkaharju nature reserve so as to change the demarcation so as to separate from the nature reserve about three hectares of the former Finlandia hotel and a small parking area for Kruunupuisto personnel for their own part, and at the same time to include an area of approximately 115 hectares, which includes Unnikikkisaari with its surrounding waters. Where there are novel areas, a very good thing. In my opinion, and also in the opinion of these contributors, this also serves precisely nature conservation and then tourism and industry in the region. And when you look at this commentary, the town of Savonlinna, for example, advocated the bill and considered the planned change in the boundary of the nature reserve to be very justified in terms of nature conservation and good for the development of the tourism industry in Savonlinna. Metsähallitus also considered the bill as a whole justified and necessary. Then, when you look at the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the proposed demarcation changes were considered reasonable and justified in terms of tourism business, building protection and nature conservation. In my opinion, this government proposal is also very good and well-founded in that it leaves the region specifically for the needs and needs of the economy, the municipality and the city and the development that it feels is necessary. Then such a government proposal may very well be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u184	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u185	Mr President! It is good that these areas are being developed and taken into account also the needs of other construction. When the minister is here, I wonder a little bit about it in this Finland that we are constantly inundating huge numbers of protected areas and in various ways. I am referring, for example, to Natura sites. In the case of Ilomants, it meant that the promises that were then made to us, that rights were preserved... At the hearing, the then authority told us, in front of 500 people, that you do not understand, the Joymants, for your own good when you oppose such things, and all rights remain. How'd it go? No, they didn't. The fear of local people turned out to be real. Of course, hunting rights remained, but there were significant restrictions. That now that we are moving forward and we seem to want more and more construction of nature reserves, I would like to see: We have existing protected areas, many national parks where structures are acidifying. There are very bad roads there. If you want to get to know me, even though the road to Petkeljärvi National Park in Ilomantsi is in bad shape. It has now been tried many ten times, or it has been hoped that it will be put in order while tourists are there. And if you go in a trailer or an RV, a bigger plane, it's gonna be hard. That bridge in the middle is kind of sour. That now that the minister is eager to drive these new areas, I would like to see the wishes of the locals finally being taken into account, because ultimately the game will be determined by the condition in which all the existing nature parks and national parks in Finland are, because if new ones are sought and the old ones forgotten, then we will do a disservice to the whole system. I hope for a constructive approach to this, which I certainly believe the Minister has. And I also remember money from last year’s budget — and as far as this year is concerned — that there will be money to improve the various structures, so that there will be money to make sense of it, even for practical work locally.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u186	And Congressman Kivelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u187	Mr President! I, too, would like to say briefly that this proposal is a good and positive one and supports the fact that, in accordance with the Government Programme, we want to safeguard biodiversity. I think the Minister very well said that every hectare is important when it comes to stopping the loss of nature. Indeed, as Mrs Torniainen has already pointed out, in these opinions, the change in the boundaries of the Punkaharju nature reserve was in principle considered to be good for nature conservation and for the development of tourism in the region. I personally think that it is particularly good that, by changing this demarcation, we will have more of that nature reserve, that is, this increase. Finally, I would like to point out that it is also good that when you actually get to Punkaharju by rail, good conditions and good opportunities are created for sustainable, low-carbon tourism. I personally feel that it has been very important for this government that, in all these situations where a national park or nature reserve is established or changed, the local population is strongly consulted and that they have local support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u188	Secretary Mikkonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u189	Thank you for a good conversation. — Indeed, I think this is a good practical example of how sustainable nature tourism can be promoted and, as in the previous Salla National Park, the wish comes from there locally. It is precisely there that we have seen how much people are interested in domestic tourism and nature tourism and that we can improve these conditions is of paramount importance. Congressman Hoskonen asked about the structures of the existing national parks: You were not here in the hall, as they were also discussed in connection with Salla National Park. After all, during this term of government, we have significantly exhausted the debt of correction that exists in existing nature reserves and national parks in relation to these structures. There were 32 million of them, and we are now well over halfway through, and those repairs are being made all the time around Finland. They are also very important, of course, for the continuation of the fact that these areas in tourism use are better than before, but they are also important employment investments in the region where the practical work is available to the locals — whether they are entrepreneurs from whom the services are purchased, or they are the work of Metsähallitus. The real objective is that, during this reign, we will be able to fully recover the debt of repair that lies there in the construction of nature reserves and national parks. And, of course, the important thing is that in the future it will be maintained at all times so that the debt cannot be accumulated and therefore there is no need for such large one-off investments, but can be maintained and maintained at all times. It will then also create opportunities for tourism in the region, which is extremely important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u190	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Economic Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u191	Mr President! The climate crisis is the greatest threat of our time. The message of science and researchers has long been clear and alarming: if we fail to take the necessary climate action, the alternative is not the continuation of the world, but the fact that the adverse effects of climate change on man and the rest of the environment will be strengthened, and it will also be heavier for our economy. In the Paris Agreement, Finland is committed to playing its part in limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. The annual climate report to Parliament once a year gives Parliament the opportunity to monitor how climate work is progressing. The annual report examines the development of emissions in different sectors and assesses the state of achievement of the targets on the basis of available emission performance estimates. The Annual Report relies on a solid knowledge base, which is produced by both research institutes and Statistics Finland. The report on climate change in the referral debate today is the third in its order and has been submitted to Parliament last June. The Climate Year Report shows that climate work is well under way. According to rapid preliminary data, greenhouse gas emissions in 2020 fell by 9 per cent from the previous year. The reduction in emissions was concentrated on the emissions trading sector, where the fall is almost 16%. On the other hand, the trend was clearly more moderate in the burden-sharing sector, whose emissions decreased by only 3 per cent. This has been the case in recent years. According to the preliminary data, the net sink of the land use sector was minus 23 megatonnes. The sink strengthened significantly from the previous year, especially as a result of the fall in fellings, by more than 8 million tonnes. Finland has been obliged to reduce emissions from the burden sharing sector by 16% by 2020. The encouraging news is that, according to the 2020 flash estimate, this objective will be achieved. However, it will not be finally confirmed until next year. However, Finland may, if necessary, make use of flexible means to ensure that the target is achieved. By 2030, Finland will reduce emissions from the burden sharing sector by 39% compared to 2005. In July, the Commission proposed to tighten up the obligations of the Member States so that Finland's obligation would rise to 50%. This change has not been taken into account in the June annual report on last year. The Government has outlined the additional measures needed to achieve this objective in the context of the budget debate, and these measures will be included in the planned medium-term climate policy plan, as well as in the climate and energy strategy for the emissions trading sector. In order to achieve the carbon neutrality target of 2035, the key conclusion of the annual report is that the so-called emission gap is about 11 megatonnes of CO2 equivalent. More action is therefore needed to achieve carbon neutrality. The necessary new measures will also be considered in the context of the medium-term climate policy plan in the climate and energy strategy currently under preparation and in the land use sector climate plan. This review is based on the budget debate held in early September and the guidelines adopted in this context. Mr President! In connection with the examination of last year's climate report, Parliament has presented some new development needs for the annual report. In line with Parliament’s proposal, this year’s annual report includes an overview of economic and social impacts and reviews of the carbon footprint of household consumption and positive carbon handprint of companies. As in the previous year, the report also includes reviews of cross-sector measures such as municipal climate policy and circular economy. According to a calculation compiled by the Finnish Environment Agency in spring 2021, the carbon footprint of household consumption per capita was just over 10.3 tonnes in 2019. Emissions fell between 2010 and 2015, but since then they have remained broadly at the same level. The change in the carbon footprint can be purchased for three factors: changes in consumption expenditure, changes in the consumption structure and technological change. According to heart rate estimates, the carbon footprint of consumption increased between 2000 and 2019, while changes in the consumption structure and emission intensity of consumer products reduced emissions. The main factor explaining the carbon footprint is the level of income, alongside which other factors are of limited importance. Mr President! The extreme events of last summer's weather, such as the floods in Central Europe, the record heats in North America and the record-long heat period in the country, have at the latest awakened us to the progress of the climate crisis. Accelerated global warming highlights the urgency of adaptation measures and the need to prepare for change. As in the previous year, the Climate Change Annual Report contains an assessment of the state of implementation of the National Adaptation Plan. The implementation of the National Adaptation Plan aims to reduce the adverse consequences of climate change on human safety, health and living conditions, nature and other environment, industries such as agriculture, forestry and reindeer husbandry, infrastructure and important societal activities. What gives us hope is that things are still in our own hands. With our own decisions, we will be able to influence the fact that the climate does not warm up too much. That's why climate work continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u192	And Mr. Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u193	Mr President! It is good that we are talking about climate policy, because it affects our decision-making and the basis for it in many ways and almost everywhere. The city centre is strongly involved in climate and environmental work, and we see that it is the task of man to both cultivate and preserve the land. Of course, it is also a question of what future we are offering our children and young people, future generations. The aim of the Centre Party is to make solutions that reduce harmful emissions but also enable housing, living and entrepreneurship throughout Finland. There is no point in taxing and chastising ourselves so that activities and living simply move elsewhere. Mr President! It is true that solutions to the fight against climate change can be found very close. First of all, we must favor domestic food. It is not racist to leave vegetables and fruits imported from abroad in a salad work and to choose to replace them — although it was recently stated in a media that racism is not in favour of making salads, when making a tasty salad, it is worth taking raw materials around the world. Of course, foreign food can also be used, but especially in public procurement it is necessary to emphasise and further increase the use of domestic food. It's a great climate action when food comes close. I would therefore like to thank the Government for its many contributions to the operation of Finnish agriculture and forestry. Farmers' livelihoods and occupations must be made easier. This is a good and right line, which has also been reflected in government policy. There are also a lot of climate action in agriculture every day. The most important single agri-climate action is to ensure profitability. It is also essential for the security of supply in our country. What would happen if we really fell on foreign food and then suddenly lost or even stopped coming? Mr President! The growth of Finnish forests has doubled over the past 100 years, as we know how to manage sustainable forests. Finland is a pioneer here. Our forest know-how and other know-how should therefore be exported abroad. The Climate Report notes that cooperation and partnership with others strengthen Finland’s possibilities. We can export knowledge and technology in areas such as food production, the availability of clean water and the sustainable use of natural resources, including forests. Here in Finland, forests are a huge carbon sink. The use of forests should be continued. For example, increasing the number of wood-based products and wood-based construction is very profitable and sustainable. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: How is the increase in wood construction recorded in the Government Programme? How's it going? Mr President! Climate action must be extremely careful that we do not really do things that simply shift production or consumption from Finland to abroad. If, for example, we increase the taxation of fuels needed by companies and industry, which fortunately is not being done now, there is a risk that production will move to where it is cheaper. It is clear that emissions are likely to increase at the same time as the lives and work of Finns become more difficult. Mr President! The Centre sees that technological developments are going to be enormous and have already given a huge number of solutions to the fight against climate change. Development work is being carried out in Finland, for example, in the development of coal-free steel production, and we recently heard promising news from the University of Oulu, where carbon-neutral cement is being developed. Today, the cement industry produces up to 8% of global carbon emissions. It is therefore important that development and research are supported and adequately funded. With regard to transport, too, it is important to remember that when the corridors are in good condition throughout Finland, transport will also produce less emissions and will provide opportunities for further development of clean Finnish technology and industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u194	And Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u195	Mr President! Transport accounts for about one fifth of all greenhouse gas emissions in Finland and up to 40% of emissions in the whole burden sharing sector. Reducing emissions from transport is crucial to achieving our objective of carbon neutrality. The Government Programme aims to halve transport emissions by 2030 from the 2005 level. In this work, the Government's decision in principle on the road map for fossil-free transport plays a crucial role. In road transport, we need to increase incentives for our new car fleets for biogas and electric cars. In addition to the renewal of the fleet, we must increase support for public transport and step up the use of locomotive equipment and railway capacity. We have all the prerequisites for moving towards carbon-neutral transport, and that is where we are headed by this government. Mr President! Reducing emissions from transport will have not only environmental but also health effects. The dismantling of fossil fuels, support for public transport and the construction of cycling routes bring health benefits as air quality improves and people become more mobile. At the same time, reducing emissions increases the comfort of residential areas when traffic is planned from the perspective of people and nature. Emissions-free transport not only reduces particulate emissions but also noise pollution, which is a genuine problem in many residential areas. Fossil-free transport is the key not only to a cleaner but also to a more comfortable environment. Mr President! In the future, more and more Finns will have the opportunity to use public transport and to travel safely on foot or by bike. Our own car will continue to be needed in a large part of the country, but we need to get rid of fossil fuels. Implementation of the first measures of the fossil-free road map has already started. The Government supports, among other things, the expansion of the biogas distribution network as well as the construction of the electric vehicle charging infrastructure in the parking spaces of housing companies and jobs and service stations. The first measures include public transport subsidies, an investment programme for walking and cycling, and supply subsidies for electric cars and conversion aid for ethanol and gas cars. In addition, the obligation to distribute biofuels will be increased. The aim is that the environmentally friendly option is always cheaper than the more polluting option.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u196	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u197	Mr President! The President of the Confederation of Agricultural and Forestry Producers recently made it clear that it is in the primary producer's interest to be involved in the fight against climate change. A farmer’s livelihood, if anything, depends on weather conditions: a bad harvest year is seen as a bad account. Instead of painting dark images of the end of the world or denying a scientific fact called climate change, we are involved in solving issues related to the phenomenon. It is important for the centre that things are done fairly and without blaming the primary producers. Of course, as a country in the good countries of the world, we have an obligation to set an example for other countries, including in environmental matters. Here too, however, moderation must be maintained. The real work is done at the tables where the world’s great nations, which are even the biggest emitters, are gathered. It is important for Finland to play its part, we are involved in the impact work and also exporting to these countries, these countries following Finland in their climate action, our advanced climate technology. Mr President! I have been able to learn more about the kind of primary production in Finland today. I've been sent a picture of an emergency. Production requirements are top-class, which is what the conscientious producers in Finland strive to achieve. Small farms are no longer profitable. Everything must be in line with great and constantly tightening regulations. This usually means large investments with debt money. Together with poor agricultural profitability, debt investment is a exhausting combination. In Finland, we are used to taking our own high self-sufficiency rate for granted. The terrible fact is that a growing number of producers every week stop because of low profitability and fatigue and no new ones will be replaced. Producers know that Finns appreciate domestic food, but the political climate towards them is hostile. In their view, certain political groups are strikingly eager to discourage a Finnish peasant. This is the knowledge expressed at the mouth of many producers. I hate working in a guilty atmosphere. It would be good for us decision-makers to bear one fact in mind: if a minus figure falls below the line, there will be no investment and there will soon be no business to do. As the situation worsens, our national food security and security of supply are under threat. On the contrary, climate change should be prepared to produce food for the rest of the world, as Finland is in a climate change development perspective among those countries where living conditions remain sustainable. I therefore hope that Parliament will also pay particular attention to the survival of the primary producers. How are our producers, how is Finnish food production, and what is the future of Finnish agriculture? These are the answers I would like to receive from the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u198	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u199	Mr President! According to a recent UN report, we are on our way to global warming of nearly 3°C by the end of the century. The climate crisis is something that we, as decision-makers, will be remembered for and that must remain at the heart of all policies. At the same time, it is certainly positive to say that Finland's emissions have decreased. Thank you not only for the important work of the state and the municipalities, but also for the constant and very necessary pressure of civil society on this issue. However, Finland’s emissions have also not been sufficiently reduced to reach the 1.5-degree target. I therefore welcome the fact that the EU's update of the emission reduction target for the burden-sharing sector obliges Finland to speed up the introduction of emission reduction measures, including in agriculture, whose emissions have not been reduced only in this sector. Emissions reductions in agriculture must be taken seriously. The Finnish food system must be put on a sustainable footing so that farmers can have a stable environment and know the direction they are taking in food production in the next few years. The role of farmers is crucial, and it is essential for them too that their livelihood is based on sustainable agriculture, which not only provides food for all of us but also provides vital ecosystem services such as carbon sinks, nutrient cycles and diverse nature. In the burden-sharing sector, transport emissions have also, to my satisfaction, decreased faster than anticipated. Nevertheless, the 1.5-degree target and the fact that Finland can create a model for a sustainable transport system for global use also requires a pioneering move away from combustion engines at a rapid pace. Mr President! I would like to highlight the issue of consumption-related emissions. At the moment, emissions from Finnish consumption are far too high. They exceed the earth’s carrying capacity many times over. According to the study, the individual’s carbon footprint is clearly explained most by the income level: the higher incomes, the higher the emission footprint — just as the climate annual report shows this. This is not an individual problem for the left: public authorities must tackle the individual's potential to overexploit this planet. Certainly none of us deliberately choose to destroy our own environment, but I think that we are largely guided by the social environment and standards. In other words, when everything is allowed to be advertised and marketed in this society, individuals also get a misleading picture of the effects of their own consumption in a big picture. That is why I think it is important to tackle consumption emissions through regulation, so that it is not left to the individual alone to try to understand what the footprint is, which product is going to make the environmental crisis worse and how much. Well, of course, there should not be any products on the market whose consumption destroys the living conditions of the earth. Mr President! The annual climate report has been further developed since the previous year, which is a good thing, and I think that this is about the increasingly urgent need to measure greenhouse gas emissions in Finland and Finland more closely, so that they can be cut at the speed of the Paris Agreement as well as our human and life-cycle safety limit. I hope that this important document and its measures will be widely examined here in Parliament and that those measures will also be taken to make Finland's emissions and emissions from the Finnish way of life environmentally sustainable within the timeframe required to keep the global average temperature below 1.5°C.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u200	And Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u201	Mr President! Today, therefore, there is a third annual climate report of its kind in this Chamber. The report monitors the implementation of Finland’s emission reduction targets. It contains information on the development of emissions and sinks in our country. And what is important is a broad reflection on the impact of the policy measures envisaged on emissions. The annual report is also a good way of assessing the need for new measures in order to achieve the objectives set. Thanks can be given to the fact that this report is more concrete and has in many ways gone for the better. It may also have been heard during preliminary proceedings in committee work. Finland's emissions are decreasing, but the pace of climate action needs to be tightened in order to achieve Finland's objective of carbon neutrality in 2035. This is not intimidation. This is realism. New measures are needed and care must be taken to ensure that the planned measures treat Finns fairly and fairly. On the whole, much is happening in climate policy. The preparation is based on a medium-term climate plan KAISU, an updated climate and energy strategy and a climate plan for the land use sector. A number of committees are also working on the Fit for 55 package. When dealing with the report, it must be said that Finnish consumption is not sustainable for the climate. The average carbon footprint of Finns is far from the estimated sustainable consumption. There has been progress, but I think this too should be said out loud. According to the Finnish Climate Panel, the carbon footprint of households should decrease by up to 70 per cent in order to achieve Finland’s objective of carbon neutrality in 2035. Mr President! As we move towards low-carbon transport and heating and reduce agricultural emissions, we will need various tax solutions and subsidies in the coming years. In this work, knowledge and long-term policy actions have continued to be examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u202	And a representative of the field fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u203	Mr President! There is now a 129-page climate drop on our government's annual favorite children, saving the whole world, and the Government's climate pose. The main objective of Prime Minister Marin's Government's programme is to be carbon neutral by 2035 and from now on to be carbon-negative, contrary to what the European Union's objectives and climate agreements currently require of us. It is worrying that the European Union has already taken decisions to tighten up its climate policy objectives and Finland's response to this is that the current efforts to achieve this objective are not sufficient and that further efforts are therefore being included in the new medium-term climate policy plan and climate and energy strategy that is under preparation. In other words, the Government's climate-management and blackmail policy, which undermines Finnish living conditions, are significantly increased, new taxes are invented and old ones are raised to achieve ideological objectives, even though Finland's targets are already 15 years more ambitious than those of the European Union and, as an example, 30 years more ambitious than those of China. The Government Programme records that emission reduction measures are implemented in a socially and regionally fair way and that all sectors of society are involved. The implementation of this entry has certainly been brilliant in its absence in all the actions the government has taken so far, or they have been completely apparent and inadequate. The imbalance between growth centres and sparsely populated areas is growing and it is too great for the government to have the capacity to solve their problems fairly, and that is why climate poserisation is hitting the people of rural areas the strongest, and thus the vitality of rural areas in the government of the Central Party, despite the tinkering. Mr President! The increase in the price of electricity and heat in the emissions trading sector has already hit the consumer and there is no end to their growth. We are already flashing the threat of an electrical crisis and tens of percent price increases. In the case of district heat, the increase has already been at its worst 30 points at regional level, and it should be borne in mind that the difference between the transmission prices of monopoly power transmission companies may be up to three times higher depending on the consumer's place of residence. Is this what the government now believes to be the social and regionally fair transition to fossil-free energy? In addition, the Government aims to reduce emissions in the land use sector and to strengthen carbon sinks substantially. Well, carbon sinks are not reinforced by cutting thousands of hectares of forest under green wind power, its transmission lines and service roads. It is worth remembering that the Finnish forest owner is an elite in the fight against climate change. Our forest industry is one of the rocks in our economy. Well, this climate drop states that the most relevant to climate change mitigation is the development of net emissions, i.e. total emissions less net sinks in the land use sector. This is an interesting entry, because the impact of unrealed wild bogs on carbon sinks at European Union level has been left entirely unquoted in decisions, i.e. they are not counted as carbon sinks at all. One third of Finland's surface area is swamp, so on the basis of this we can say that the calculations in the annual climate report are based only on ideological and political decisions and on the business around them. Science and truth are secondary to this ideology. Mr President! Good government, I have suggested that the decision of the early 21st century be repealed with regard to peat and that peat be declared a renewable resource. I wonder why it is not good enough, because it is a win-win situation: 4.2 million hectares of wild swamps will then be a carbon sink there too in the EU calculations and will be almost as carbon sink as much as our transport emissions. This would provide the tools to avoid making tax increases or trampling down our agriculture and industry. I would ask that action be taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u204	Thank you. — And now Minister Mikkonen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the conversation. — Here the concrete question arose from Mr Aittakummu on how to promote the construction of wood: this government really has the objective of making a significant contribution to the construction of wood and also to the construction of wood. We must remember that we do not always have to build entirely from wood, but can do partly, and wood can also be used in infrastructure construction. In the case of housing construction, for example, MAL contracts have individual incentives for wood construction and there are also recommendations for wood construction in the construction of ARA and in public construction. Of course, when there are a lot of municipal decision-makers here, I also hope that the municipalities will use wood construction to a large extent. Well, then the question arose here about this fair change: Of course, it is an important clue to our government's climate action too, and that is why, for example, we have a wide range of grants for households, for example, for the abandonment of oil heating, which has now been added and increased so that it is an option for as many people as possible, and also for low-income people, a solution is tailored so that this high initial investment is not hindered. What is more, of course, we have, for example, existing subsidies for a clean energy solution that want to find the good emission-free alternatives so that they can be cheap. At present, wind power, for example, is already a fully market-based and, in fact, extremely cheap form of electricity generation. Agriculture and agricultural emissions were then raised: in agriculture many farmers have done a very good job. There is talk of means of regeneration that have taken care of the carbon stock in the soil and thus also of the condition of growth and, for example, of crop security. These good examples are all over Finland, and it would be important for us to be able to direct this even more with support policy, because of course the production of domestic food and, in particular, the addition of vegetable food is also like a good everyday climate action, with which every consumer can make a difference. I would like to see the MTK, which has done excellent work on the climate map, jointly define the target level by 35, the emission reduction path to be pursued, and then consider the good means and also how to use existing aid instruments or other possible new forms of support to achieve this objective. We know that the agricultural sector is long-term and things do not happen in the moment, and that is why it would be good to put that goal on the horizon sufficiently far and then determined to go together to work towards it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u206	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u207	We will now resume the debate on item 9 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u208	Mr President! Finland lives from forests, fields, nature. Steady economic growth can be ensured by protecting the environment. As we live close to nature, we are built on a wholesome view of our environment and its protection. The 2021 Climate Year Report opens up for us prospects and opportunities for everyday climate policy. The annual report develops and diversifys year by year. This is now the third report in order. Finland's goal is to be carbon neutral in 2035. The government is committed to this. Our job is to cultivate and preserve. We also want to give this country, for the sake of nature and the environment, to future generations in good condition. We secure a good life for our children and their children. Emissions have decreased in Finland faster than anticipated. The fight against climate change must also be seen as an opportunity. We can take our expertise and high technology to places where we are more polluted. Air pollution does not know the boundaries of the kingdoms. Finland plays its part, but it also requires others to do so. Many Finnish companies see a wide range of business and export opportunities in solving climate change. We can be solvers. We are creating the necessary jobs, exports and growth that we need to be involved in. A number of sensible climate measures were taken in the autumn spending limits debate. The Centre brought many important proposals to the negotiating table, such as plastic recycling obligations, climate-friendly feeds, recycled fertilisers, subsidies for the abandonment of oil heating, promotion of the use of biogas and many more. It was decided to reduce emissions reductions in agriculture by various means, such as promoting permanent grassland by supporting grasslands and set-aside, establishing wetlands and supporting wasteland afforestation. The Government also allocates funding to climate-wise investments in agriculture in a solution-oriented way. From the point of view of food production, it is important that we keep arable land as productive as possible. Food producers, farmers and primary producers are responsible people who live by nature and want to develop food production in an increasingly sustainable direction. Farmers are the first to know the changes in their environment and in their own bank account bag. Climate change is a real place for them. They are ready to diversify farming and produce clean Finnish food with sustainable methods. Our job is to take care of the farmers. We need complementary knowledge and continuous learning, which must be carried out by secondary and polytechnics. We need specific training. We all have a lot of common sense to do for nature and the climate. We can each be the solvers ourselves. We can clear food waste and increase the share of Finnish clean local food in public procurement and catering. Direct municipalities to favour local and organic food, promote the circular economy, keep you in shape, take care of the soil, the good condition of fields and forests, so that they produce as well as possible, and so that they bind and store coal. We'll plan the forests, we'll thin out the gridlocks. Restoring ungrown swamp forests into wetlands. Take care of biodiversity. Promoting the development of wood-based products and the construction of wood-based products. Exporting high and sustainable environmental and food technology abroad, making them an export product. Finnish clean food is preferred. I am very pleased that the European Capital of Culture of 2026 On Monday, Oulu launched an Arctic Food Lab label for products with close proximity to food culture. At the moment of the celebration, we were given a bottle of rye under our arms. Such exemplary, comprehensive openings are needed. The cultural programme emphasises social, cultural, economic and ecological sustainability. The plan of Oulu’s sustainable Capital of Culture states this: ‘To curb climate change in particular, we need to change our ways of interacting withthe planet and nature. Transnational changes can be met by trans-European cooperation, which is increasingly important as a result of a pandemic. Europe can only solve the big problems together.” We need to work together. The National Climate Adaptation Plan is an important tool for understanding our future. It is important to assess the impact of climate change on people's safety, health, nature and important industries and all important activities in society. Keep security of supply and food security at a good level. The most important single agri-climate action is to ensure its profitability. If the account is red, it will be impossible for the farmer to make sustainable investments. Mr President! With our own responsible solutions, we will be able to contribute to a sustainable future. Cultivate and preserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u209	And Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u210	Mr President! Thank you for this informative report. As the Minister has already said in his presentation, we now need a paradigm shift to put an end to ecological indebtedness. The aim must be to maintain and even strengthen our natural capital. We must now be able to recognise that over-consumption and the challenge of continuous growth are a problem for the climate. The aim must be to build a sustainable way of life, and new means and tools are also needed. The circular economy is one part of this new paradigm and the transition to the circular economy needs to be accelerated. Despite the many negative consequences, the corona pandemic must have contributed to moving forward with this new thinking model, for example through the introduction of telework, which is likely to have also led to a reduction in transport emissions. However, building a new paradigm, a thinking model, still requires a lot of civil debate, for example, on what are the things, so valuable that we do not want them to be destroyed. Incriminating people is always a bad starting point for such a debate and participation in general, and that is why it is also necessary to bring forward positive issues and to develop together, especially through consultation with young people. They need to know how they can influence and contribute to climate change mitigation, but on the other hand they need to be able to rely on the ability and courage of adults to make decisions that promote sustainability. One obstacle to civil dialogue is the fact that the concepts and phenomena associated with climate change mitigation are still partly unclear and this also partly leads to contradictions. For example, the bioeconomy is not necessarily sustainable and renewable energy is not necessarily low-emission. Such contradictions confuse citizens and make it difficult for them to discuss matters. The Annual Climate Report is therefore an important tool not only for assessing objectives, but also for promoting interaction between the various stakeholders. For example, the climate impact figure in the climate report is very interesting and useful for the public debate. Open civil dialogue is also needed to justify the need for further climate action. President! I am raising the same issue from the report as last year, namely emissions from municipalities. They have decreased slowly compared to the targets, but on the other hand the differences between municipalities are significant. We have many excellent Hinku municipalities, but also those where the matter is still new. In this respect, we would like positive competition between municipalities and more sharing of good practice. All municipalities should be involved in low carbon circular economy agreements, together with regional enterprises and other actors. Climate objectives should also be emphasised in public administration. At present, procurement legislation encourages, but does not oblige, environmental considerations in public procurement. Another point that drew my attention when I looked at the report was the size of the carbon footprint of consumption. More efforts are needed to facilitate citizens' everyday lives towards sustainable consumption. There is an interest in the matter, but how can it be done easily in a matter of urgency — that is what many citizens ask. It is important to help citizens make choices that are more environmentally friendly. President! In addition to slowing down climate change, it is also important to talk about adapting to climate change. The implementation of the National Adaptation Plan will reduce the adverse consequences of climate change on human safety, health and living conditions, nature, industry and other important societal activities. For example, last week's debate in this Chamber highlighted the problems of the Arctic region, that is to say the problems of Finland as a whole. The fight against climate change is a key factor for the future of the entire Arctic region. The Arctic is warming up twice as fast as the rest of the world. People, nature, livelihoods, culture and well-being in the Arctic region are under threat because of the proven melting of glaciers and rising sea level. Last week's debate showed well that Finland must also be a pioneer for selfish reasons. Global warming affects us negatively in many other ways, including as a reduction in biodiversity and as a variety of extreme weather phenomena. Secondly, pioneering gives us a competitive advantage in many areas. Responding to climate change and sustainable development solutions can provide opportunities for business and new innovations and jobs. Finally, Mr President, there is still a need for more interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research into the consequences of global warming and also on these means of adaptation. It must also be borne in mind that, without policy coherence, these objectives will not be achieved, and here we still have a place to do so. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u211	Thank you. — Representative Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u212	Mr President! This third annual climate report of all time shows that climate work is well under way. Progress has been made in emission reduction measures and Finland's emissions decreased by 9 per cent last year. However, further efforts are needed as the annual climate report shows that current efforts are not sufficient to achieve carbon neutrality. The report shows that emissions in the burden-sharing sector are slowly decreasing. It shows that our national climate policy does not effectively guide the reduction of emissions. The report covers 2020 and does not reflect the climate decisions taken in the budget debate. Their adequacy to close the emission gap will be assessed in the preparation of posts and with researchers by March 2022. Mr President! The message of the scientific community is clear: emission reductions can no longer be expected. The IPCC report paints a rough picture. Atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, temperature and sea level rise and glaciers retreat faster than in thousands of years. These changes are already visible throughout the world, among other things, through the intensification of extreme weather phenomena. The probability of exceeding the 1.5-degree warming rate in the early 2030s is high, even if emissions are severely restricted. Risks and impacts are greater the more global warming. We therefore need rapid, comprehensive and strong measures to reduce climate emissions. It can be seen, therefore, that a new phase of climate policy is beginning, an economic transformation, in which a circular economy that controls the consumption of natural resources is creating a new basis for the economy. This change is necessary if our consumption is to be set at the limit of the earth’s carrying capacity. Developing and scaling climate-resistant solutions is a profitable business. Industry and industry are already moving towards a green, sustainable economy. The state should be the blackmailer of this development, not the brake. The autumn budget debate showed more clearly that climate policy, industrial policy and economic policy are increasingly interlinked. It is therefore necessary for climate policy to be a cross-cutting element in all decision-making tables. Mr President! It is clear that there are many things that need to change in order to make Finland’s net emissions zero. However, it is possible to make changes so that, at the same time, we take care of people's well-being and strengthen the sustainability of the economy. The Climate Year Report tells us that Finnish consumption is not sustainable for the climate. The sustainable carbon footprint of an individual Finnish is about a quarter of the current. It is important that we are able to monitor household consumption emissions more closely, including emissions from the production chains of imported products abroad. It is important to seek a better understanding of these cross-border emission chains. It would be easier for consumers to have a carbon footprint label on their products. It would make it easier to reduce its own carbon footprint and contribute to controlling production to low-emission products. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the authors of the annual report for a worthy whole. The annual climate report has improved year by year and is an important tool for monitoring climate work. In this way we will also improve knowledge management in climate work. I would also like to thank you for the illustrative summary that translates the key content into a readable form for citizens. On this basis, we will look carefully at the content of the report on climate change in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u213	And Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u214	Mr President! I am a forestry engineer from my training, and I began to cultivate farm fields during my early 20s. I also like to move around in nature. Nature is an important source of calm and good feeling for me. The connection to nature has been unbroken. These two aspects of the economy and nature are not mutually exclusive, on the contrary. Climate change is a major challenge of this time. It is undeniable that the world needs action to tackle this challenge. Finland and the Finnish countryside and our people know and know how to offer these solutions as a model to the world. In Finland, forest management is sustainable and forests are planted after fellings. That will continue to be the case. Forests are our most important and renewable natural resource. Agriculture studies how to make fields carbon sinks and better recycle nutrients. Agriculture is definitely part of the solution. Finnish food will continue to be needed. In the future, manure and biowaste will become more and more biofuels to replace fossil fuels. We promote cost-effective emission reductions and electrification of machine tools based on an ongoing study. We will also examine the conditions and support of electrical and gas-powered machinery, especially in agriculture. We also need to explore how to recycle urban sludge and waste streams even more efficiently and efficiently. The goal must be to have a fully recyclable economy. Last but not least, everyone should reduce unnecessary consumption. Don’t buy anything you don’t need, and think twice about what you really need. Climate change must also be combated in such a way that it does not increase inequalities between people. Mr President! Finland does not solve climate change alone, but we are definitely part of the solution. Finland is developing technologies supporting the fight against climate change and environmental protection, and they must also be exported vigorously abroad, much more powerful than is currently being done. Afforestation has been described as the easiest and most effective way for all to reduce carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and to combat climate change. Indeed, Finland should raise its profile considerably, both in the EU and worldwide, by telling about our own forest plantings and forest regeneration, and also by exporting this know-how and know-how more to the world. Mr President! For the city centre, it is a matter of overgeneration. Future generations must always have a good future. This is at the heart of our party's cause: the country will be left in a better condition for posterity than we ourselves have received. The Centre is ready to work in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u215	Thank you. — Representative Sipilä absent. — Congressman Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u216	Mr President! The Annual Climate Report is indeed related to the implementation of the Climate Change Act of 2015. Accordingly, the Government submits an annual climate report to Parliament to monitor overall emissions developments and the achievement of the objectives of the medium-term climate policy plan. It also includes a survey of policy actions and an assessment of the implementation status of the adjustment plan. It is a comprehensive information package with a lot of material and information, especially over the past 15 years. Finland's total emissions without LULUCF sector, i.e. total emissions from emissions trading and burden sharing sectors in 2019 were 53.1 megatonnes of CO2 equivalent, and since 2010 total emissions have decreased by an average of 4 per cent per year. In the last two years, the rate of reduction has been 7% per year. What about the emissions trading sector? EU emissions trading covers large industrial and energy production plants and intra-EEA air transport. Emissions decreased by nearly 16 per cent last year, and the fall in emissions was caused by consumption of both hard coal and peat considerably lower than in the year before. Over the last ten years, emissions in the emissions trading sector have decreased by around 7% on average. What about the burden-sharing sector, which therefore includes all the greenhouse gases outside the emissions trading scheme and the land-use sector that are reported in the national emissions inventory? These include transport and agriculture, heating of buildings, waste treatment and F-gases. In the burden-sharing sector, greenhouse gas emissions have decreased more slowly than emissions in the emissions trading sector, but there has been a reduction in almost all sources of emissions in the burden-sharing sector. In 2019 emissions from road transport decreased by 4 per cent, and over the last 15 years, for example, there has been a 45 per cent reduction in separate heating of buildings, a 28 per cent reduction in manufacturing. In other words, over the last 15 years since 2005, emissions have decreased in all sectors except agriculture, and consequently emissions in the burden-sharing sector have also decreased by around 16% since 2005. So we have had a clear development over the last 15 years, and there are, of course, a number of decisions behind us, including the decision of the last period to abandon coal, but there have been various political decisions on many other issues. Mr President! Especially in recent years, young people's interest in climate change issues and our reduction in emissions has increased and young people's concern about the effects and adaptation of climate change has also increased. We have information available, as this report on climate change, for example, shows, but I believe that young people should also be provided with this information and the resources of society should be harnessed to do so. Young people would need information in their own channels and in their ways, because if they could get a stronger message that we have been able to reduce emissions politically, although not all the targets have yet been achieved, they would also feel that the political decision-makers and Parliament are taking this issue seriously. Last week I was at the Climate Change Power Panel organised by the Alliance and there I pointed out the importance of hearing young people. Now that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is working on this annual report on climate change, I have suggested that we should consult young people in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, such as the Youth Agenda 2030 Group, which is a comprehensive representation of young people across Finland, on the subject of this annual report on climate change. Thank you to the authors of this annual report, but perhaps it would be useful in the future to be able to provide this information in the form that young people will find it better and then be interested in it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u217	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u218	Mr President! So we have the climate year report from 2021, and it is all right that these things are done, but I would like to raise such a few different perspectives on this issue: It might be said that when I was living in that countryside, there was a difference in waste management and there were such people in the landfill looking for usable goods and materials and so on, and that was real recycling, but then there have been all kinds of bans on people being there, and the waste has been so well-socialized as society. So I don't really see that all this has gone in the right direction. There are a lot of things that have gone in the right direction, but recycling of plastics, for example, is now very far from being able to do much more, but unfortunately much of it is being burned in social waste management plants and turned into heat. I think there would have been better ways to do that. I guess it was last year's side or was it 19 when the Kaipola paper mill quit? There was about to be this kind of real recycling innovation, and they would have had the ability to make waste plastic oil or jet fuel or gasoline, but unfortunately this government only used embellishment to support such things that Kaipola needs to get action. This company that was coming there received no support at all, neither from the climate fund nor from other funding agencies in our society. It is good that there is concern about the climate, and I am quite sure that climate change is true too, because there is a picture on the wall at the National Museum 200 metres away, which says that ‘18,000 years ago there were many miles of ice’. I myself do not fully believe in such a climate emergency, and I think it is wrong for children to be intimidated by this climate emergency or climate change. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out that in the Arctic the glacier is melting and the sea level is rising, and this is true. The glacier is melting, the sea level is rising, certain fish are rising ever higher, and temperatures have fallen, and these have already been noted by marine biologist Zubov in 1938. Personally, I believe that there has been such a cold period between this and ongoing climate change. In his speech just now, Mr Elo said that emissions from import chains abroad should be taken into account, and I fully agree with that. It should also be taken into account for energy use in future peat or wood. There is a heating plant in Alajärvi where peat was brought earlier 12 km away, and now there is a pick-up drive near St.Petersburg, which has hardly been repaired in a sustainable way — I do not know if there is any obligation to plant there since then. This current slowing down of climate temperature is absurd in many respects. The fate of peat has been in your hands, and it seems to me that the present government has destroyed the future of many peat entrepreneurs and of many young people who have been employed in the peat industry. With regard to the consumption of natural resources, I agree very much in every way. I personally believe that I am quite such a person could say ‘compost green’,that is to say that we have been paying attention to home recycling over a long period of time. We also collected plastic as a separate collection in the past, when it was used by a private company, but now over the years governments have socialised domestic plastic waste in such a way that it is virtually no longer collected separately or, if collected separately, then burned in the combustion plants of society and converted into thermal energy, which I do not think is the most sustainable way to reuse plastics. Mr President, this is my brief speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u219	Thank you. — Mr Hassi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-22-ps-102.u220	Mr President! Civilization has developed in the period after the ice age, when the climate has been unusually stable on a geological scale. At a time when agriculture, cities and all that we consider to be civilization have developed, climate changes have not exceeded one degree. Today, mankind has multiplied the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere more than one and a half times the pre-industrial time, and the climate has already warmed up by one and a half degrees compared to the pre-industrial period. So we are about to step out of the climate in which civilization has evolved and where it is known that civilization can function. This will affect the lives of all future generations after us, and in this respect we must understand our responsibilities.
