ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to ask questions to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. In this context, I would also like to remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is 1 minute. Let's get started. I would ask the representatives who want to ask a question to stand up and press the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u2	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u3	Mr President! Finland is about to pay EUR 6.6 billion for the new EU recovery instrument. Originally, Finland was about to recover EUR 3.2 billion from it. Finland is therefore a clear net contributor. Now, according to new calculations, the figures are even worse for Finland. According to the current estimate, Finland's receivables from the Recovery Fund are half a billion less. The numbers may still be fluctuating.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u6	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u7	Mr President! The EU Heads agreed unanimously on a recovery instrument, the legal basis of which was in line with the Treaties, and the start of this exceptional, one-off, fixed-term recovery fund to respond to the common European need for recovery, will make investments to raise this continent from this corona pandemic. And Parliament required that the negotiations should be conducted with particular regard to the financial damage caused by the interest rate. That's why we agreed in July.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u9	Mr President! This money does not come out of nowhere, but someone has to pay for it, and it will be paid by the Finnish taxpayers. This activity itself and the violation of the rules of the game that have already been decided are also driving the entire EU economy in a bad direction. The allegations of the uniqueness of the package are also lacking political realism. The temptation to use income transfers will continue to be quite clear. When money is offered on the table, there will be takers. Such assessments have also been made by many others. These votes have taken place from Germany, including the President of the European Central Bank. Similar insinuations, conjectures, speculations have already been heard from representatives of the government parties. Against this background, I ask the Minister: why are you still saying that the package is one-off?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u10	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u11	Mr President! There are different opinions on this matter and on all other issues. I have noted that the Finns have expressed an opinion on the recovery package, which is very critical to them, even saying that it should not have been agreed at all. Then there have been other kinds of speeches that have been made from the fact that this has been such a good arrangement that this should be permanent. There are opinions, but the Government has its own position. It is what the Parliament required the Government to commit itself to, and it is that this recovery tool is precisely a one-off and fixed-term fund for corona damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u14	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u19	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u20	Mr President! I would remind you again of the context in which this recovery fund has been set up, and it is this global pandemic, whose economic damage is quite unique and whose human decline is also very great. And in this context, the Council of State began by saying that it is in Finland's interest to be together to revive Europe. We have a common internal market. Our economy is exceptionally linked to the EU's internal market: 60% of our exports are specifically to the European Union, and most of them to the euro area. It is very important that this single market area together recovers and is also a huge opportunity for Finnish companies. We are now reviving EUR 750 billion, and there is also a market for Finnish expertise. When Europe invests in new digital growth, green regeneration, a low-carbon economy, Finnish export companies will certainly be able to compete, and I call on the whole Parliament to do this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u21	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u22	Mr President! Some political movements have harnessed the recovery package as a municipal election tool by waving money bags in the provinces, which are now said to be coming from the EU to Finnish municipalities. Of the detail, it is silent that the money in question has been taxed on the Finns themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u23	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u24	Mr President! The Government has just sent a so-called EU own resources decision to Parliament, which this Chamber will have to deal with and approve. Ultimately, it is the Finnish Parliament that decides whether Finland accepts this solution, but the Government assumes that this is in Finland's interest. We must see that we are also involved in this on the multiannual financial framework. There is also a very large amount of development funds coming from there for the regions of Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u26	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u27	Madam President! From the point of view of the taxpayer's and Finland's economic sovereignty, there are quite a few interpretations of this nightmare transfer, which we have just heard about in the ministerial box: corrosive positions, help the Finnish export industry and so on. The fact is, however, that a country that has handled the corona well, for example, will receive financial punishment. Instead, the country that has ruined its finances before the corona gets more money. How does it sound, for example, for a country that receives 72 billion in grants, whose debt is huge, which at the same time increases pensions, civil servants' salaries, minimum wages and introduces basic income, and where there are violations of the rule of law — at the expense of a Finnish taxpayer? Minister, why should the Finnish taxpayer pay?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u28	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u29	Mr President! Indeed, this own resources decision is being taken by the Parliament, and it is a good idea to take this decision on its own merits. But the very broad rationale behind this whole solution is that Europe needs a coordinated recovery after the huge disaster in which we are living. With the next package, the U.S. will resuscitate with almost $2,000 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u32	On this same subject, the Christian Democrats have also wanted to ask. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u33	Madam President! This recovery in the EU will result in a common long-term debt, transfers of income, higher membership fees for Finland and also, last but not least, a path to EU tax law. That government proposal on the system of own resources is very interesting. It lists the Commission's future solutions as a system of own resources and states that by June 24 the Commission will submit a proposal which may also relate to the payment to the business sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u34	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u35	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Essayah that this is not a solidarity debt that we are now taking, but that this part, which Finland is paying, is clearly defined, and it is very important, because this is precisely what Finland negotiated in accordance with the guidelines of the Constitutional Committee and the major committee. We need to have a precise definition of what we are committed to and what Finland is responsible for, and now it is clearly defined that we are not jointly and severally responsible for the whole pot, but only for our own contribution. As far as these new own resources are concerned, we do not yet have a Commission proposal on them. Where we are now taking a stand does not yet cover, for example, a digital tax or a carbon tax. They are these new own resources for the future, and we must come to these discussions and present what is the appropriate way for Finland to raise new own resources for the EU. We are not moving the right to tax, now the tax revenue coming to the Finnish budget, to the European Union, but would it not make sense, for example, to develop a wider international digital tax such as that?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u36	Congressman Essayah, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u37	Yes, Madam President, I did not hear the answer to the government's position on the EU tax on businesses. But is it not time to admit that the instrument is not in Finland's interest either, given that our economic experts have said that it will not revive and save our exports, because, on the contrary, with this system we are now reviving southern and eastern Europe at our own expense? And that is not all, because our contribution is also increasing and we are about to spend the 4 billion on this freeze, which is to say that this is quite a deal we are about to enter. Would it not be time to recognise that this package is not in the interests of Finland and that it has not made sense that we have joined in the construction of a recovery instrument of this kind, which is actually a fiscal stimulus for those countries in southern Europe for which interest rates are already too high and which are not able to carry out these structural reforms in their economy, but, on the contrary, as we are hearing here, are still doing just as much?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u38	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u39	Mr President! I know how to do that. Essayah's response should be answered after the countries have submitted their own recovery plans. The decision of the summer European Council and the more detailed guidance given by the Commission certainly indicate that the items financed by this recovery package are, above all, investments that will start to change the European production structure in a greener direction and will increase the potential for economic growth in the future. It is not the money that is being spent on tax reductions or pensions, but it must be a plan for what that money is being spent on. By the way, if Estonia receives a lot of money from the Union, it may be that it will become investment projects in which Finnish companies operate as builders and machine suppliers. One might ask a rhetorical question: where is the transfer then?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u40	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u41	Mr President! It is clear that the EU must and should take joint action to deal with the corona crisis, but it is also quite clear that we have been and are very critical of the content of this solution itself. But, Mr President, the esteemed representative of the SDP, the Judge-in-Office, writes that this instrument should and will be used in the future. The government has used the argument that this is a one-off argument as one of the main arguments for its introduction and acceptance, and now I would like to hear a yes or no answer as to whether this is a one-off or a permanent arrangement. How do you see this solution and this instrument?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u42	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u43	Mr President! This is a one-off and exceptional response to the corona virus crisis. Of course, with regard to future decision-makers, we cannot now see or predict future crises or bind the hands of future decision-makers to possible other solutions that will be made in the future, but the position of this government and its parliamentary mandate has been that this is a one-off and exceptional measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u44	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u45	Mr President! The basis for sound financial management is that if I can decide to accept debt, I will also be responsible for managing it. Of course, this recovery package does not pay off the debts of the Italian State, but in this flawed form there is a risk that it will send a signal to Italy that even in good times it will not have to take its own debts away, because then, at a bad time, others will come and revive on behalf of the Italians. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude — intermediate call for a group of Finns]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u47	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u48	Mr President! It is important, in the wake of this crisis as a whole, to make the economy of all the Member States sound, and it is quite clear that Finland will contribute to the fact that we in Europe as a whole, both for Finland and for all the Member States, can come up with solutions that in the future each Member State will also be on a more solid economic footing. From that point of view too, this recovery instrument, this whole recovery package, is in fact very important and important, because we also know that if the European economy does not jointly recover from this, then it will be much more difficult for us to make each Member State's economy a more stable career. In other words, from this point of view too, this is an important entity and it has also had an immediate market stabilising effect in July when this solution was reached. It may be that our situation would already be much, much more, much more difficult and worse if we had not been able to reach a solution. It is possible that the market reaction would have been extremely fierce and we would not only be in this pandemic but also in a very different crisis at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u49	Representative Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u50	Mr President! This corona crisis is a one-off crisis. There has been no such thing in the past, and it has also required a one-off, unique and, in my opinion, fully necessary and justified recovery solution at Union level. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you know that this will be the last crisis in the world? And would it be that if such things came again, there would also be a need for further joint action to respond to them? Does not anyone who wants to act responsibly think that we should also be prepared for the future and, of course, try to prevent the future? And could we also do something to avoid distorting or misusing speeches for purposes, but to have a proper debate on the issues that are important for this country and for Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u51	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u52	Mr President! That's the way it is. This government cannot promise that there will be no crises in the future, that these crises will not be serious and that the decision-makers of that time will not find solutions to those crises. That's the way it is. This recovery instrument is a one-off instrument, it is unique and it has been created in this crisis — this global pandemic, the economic discipline it causes — so that together we can overcome this crisis and together within the European Union as a whole, as an internal market, we can recover from it. But, of course, we do not see the future. We cannot promise that there will be no crises and we cannot take and adopt positions on behalf of future decision-makers. Each decision-maker, each government, in due course each parliament will always decide its own positions on current situations and current crises and hopefully try to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u53	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u54	Madam Speaker! The economic effects of the corona have been studied in different regions, and one of the regions most affected by the corona throughout Europe is our entire Western Finland from Turku to Oulu, you can say Finland's export coast, where there is a strong export industry. It suffers a great deal financially because the customers of our industry are on our continent in other European countries, and therefore, in such an economic crisis, such a one-off relief package is justified. But, President, in the view of the Centre, this cannot become a permanent practice and we will not support any such support packages in the government in the future. I just want to say here that no one will be left unclear. Mr President! It should also be noted that Finland is also making a very significant contribution to the very good targets of this stimulus package: digitalisation, high-speed network connections, biogas, strengthening skills. In addition, this stimulus package:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u55	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u56	Mr President! This multiannual financial framework is big and significant for Finland too, and we have obtained a reasonably good negotiated solution. For example, when development on the agricultural side is decreasing, we managed to maintain Finland's level of support and negotiated a significant national envelope, a national envelope of EUR 500 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u59	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u60	Mr President! I would like to point out that, where the USA is probably reviving itself and not Mexico and China is reviving itself and not Thailand, Finland is reviving Estonia and Spain. It's a very special setup. The damage that has now been done to the government is that the money has been distributed before the Parliament has even given it to it. There is a decision on own resources in Parliament, and yet the Prime Minister has already informed Parliament that EUR 3.2 billion will be distributed across the provinces. Now half a billion out of the EUR 3.2 billion has been lost, and no one seems to know whether there is a final loss of that amount either. However, according to Mr Tuppurainen, this was the intention and from the outset known to the government. So why did the Prime Minister announce 3.2 billion dollars? Which minister has deliberately misled Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u61	The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u62	Mr President! It is quite a serious argument to say that Parliament has been misled.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u63	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u64	Mr President! There are two heavyweight issues in politics. I am not at all sure that this economic angle is the one that gives a clear answer. The situation is very uncertain from one direction or another. I think it's fair to admit that, but the other thing is safety. I agree with the view that the whole foundation of membership for Finns was very much in security. And now I would ask you to assess: do you want to see this exclusively as an economic issue, or, according to the Prime Minister's or ministers' assessment, is it also a matter of security policy, our own state status, and how would you like to describe it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u65	Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u66	Thank you, Mr Kanerva, for bringing this matter into a broader context, as it were. I sometimes feel when I listen to the speeches of the Finns on the ground, that you imagine that Finland would be, as it were, isolated — separated from Europe and separated from the whole world.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u67	Next question, Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u68	Madam President! The year is a short time for us adults, for children and young people it may seem like an eternity. MTV today published the results of a survey for young people. The message was alarming: up to 75 per cent of young people reported some or significant deterioration in mental well-being during the corona period. Young people have experienced anxiety, frustration, loneliness. The use of Internet, social media and phone has increased. Young people have suffered from anxiety, school challenges and fatigue. The difficulty of concentration and sleep problems are also... [ The speaker’s microphone goes off]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u71	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u72	Mr President! On this issue, our concern is shared, and it is good that this issue arises in the main discussion arena in Parliament. It may be wrong to try to say one single solution that would answer this problem. Of course, the best solution is for us adults to behave responsibly to such an extent, to comply with restrictions and other corona safety measures so that we can get rid of this disease as quickly as possible. That is why the government has made, in particular, important and demanding decisions on the external borders of the country in order to safeguard young people, older people and all citizens. In this speech, I would like to highlight one specific activity relating to students — which we also know are now very concerned about their situation in life — during the period of total distance learning. More student unions and universities applied to the Ministry for money, and about EUR 6 million of this money was allocated to students' well-being activities at such a distance last week, restrictions
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u73	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u74	Mr President! Recently, we have had to read the news about very serious crimes committed by underage young people. The phenomenon is the tip of the iceberg, but it must wake us all up to identify the causes and problems that can be found in the background of the increased nausea among young people. The role of the police in crime prevention is crucial. The total number of preventive police work needs to be increased from 2% to 10% in order to have effective and long-term effectiveness. In the post-interest period, this is particularly important. Society must react when the number of crimes increases, especially for young people. I understand the Minister of the Interior was supposed to be here, but for some reason he is not, so I will ask the government jointly. Mr Government, the number of police officers has not increased by hundreds, although this is what Minister Saramo has said, for example, and this is the way it is going to go down next year. How to ensure that police resources
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u75	Minister Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u76	Madam President! It's excellent that the questioner connects the police and the nausea of young people. This Ankkuri activity is all over the country in places where it has been running, working well and bringing help to young people in problems, and it is now being raised to the whole country by the anti-bullying action programme. And of course, when Ankkuri activities combine different professionals, schools, police, child protection, we need those police officers, and although I am not responsible for the Ministry of the Interior, my understanding is that the number of policemen has increased and will continue to grow. This government will do what the previous governments did not do, that is, increase the number of policemen,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u79	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u80	Mr President! The number of ministers has been limited in participation in survey hours by Parliament due to interest rate measures. My view is that, if I am wrong, this will be clarified, that the Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, has not been asked to be here today, but that the ministers who would have been asked are here. But if this is not the case, then this matter will be clarified. But with regard to this question itself, it is precisely this multi-professional cooperation that will play a key role when we look at the situation of our children and young people. We need cooperation between the police, social services, child protection and school in order to catch up on the situation of these children and young people in good time, because our goal together must be that these children and young people do not feel so bad that they then do such shocking and terrible things that we have read about. Then the help must be there in time, and it must be multiprofessionally identified, and these children and young people must be apprehended.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u81	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u82	Mr President! Children and young people need to get sick. Access to mental health services, especially for children and young people, has been difficult before the corona, and it has become even worse during the corona. Cooperation between authorities should be improved and school violence should be addressed at an early stage. It is therefore worrying that, as one change in social welfare reform, student care will be moved away from schools and teachers, away from the pupils. Moving to another organization will inevitably pose a threat to the achievement of student care. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u83	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u84	Mr President! This argument put forward by the representative that student and student care services in schools for children and young people today would be taken away from schools as a result of the social welfare reform is false. This has already been the subject of a debate here before.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u88	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u89	Mr President! Crimes are crimes in school, too. Violence, harassment, intimidation, persecution, theft, defamation or other unlawful acts are not part of schools. Recently, we have read very serious news of school violence. We must clearly put zero tolerance on this. Children and young people must be protected. The programme of measures to prevent bullying was completed the other week under the leadership of Minister Saramo. The programme you mentioned is an important opening-up to the debate. However, we need more cooperation and dialogue between operators, support for families. Mr Saramo, what are the ways in which we will strengthen and support cooperation between schools and families?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u90	Minister Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u91	Madam President! The action programme is indeed 14-specific, and when the questioner well told us that there was a need for extensive cooperation, we must now praise the fact that the preparation of this programme left already during the previous government and the previous parliament, and it has widely consulted the entire field of expertise and sought the best solutions that experts in Finland have to offer. These various measures, almost all of them of course, involve closer cooperation between family and school, and that also requires that we have enough of those professionals there in school, there in everyday life, and that is why there has been an increase in the budget. In this recent debate, I would say that more essential than the administrative structure, for example, for psychologists and curators, who can also have that debate, is that there are enough of them. There have been far too few psychologists and curators so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u92	Congressman Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u93	Mr President! The Coalition Party is concerned about the increased anxiety, nausea, and even these increased acts of violence among young people. These stories are very often associated with substance abuse and mental health problems, unsafe home conditions, experiences of outsiders, difficulties in schooling, seeking approval and feeling that no one cares. Young people need to be caught as early as possible. That is where all of us adults play an important role as parents, teachers, nurses, curators, neighbors, the whole village. Every young person needs to be involved and find his or her strength, that is, every young person has them. But at the same time, we must learn to respect common borders. There must be zero tolerance for all bullying, violence and disorderly behaviour. Good government! Since young people are digital and live strongly on the Internet and social media, they must also be better protected from the threats of the digital world. My question, Mr President-in-Office: what are you going to do about these worrying phenomena and threats of the social media? And Mr Laiho's question on the therapeutic guarantee was not answered yet. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u94	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u95	Mr President! In my view, Mr Ikonen's speech had a great deal of wisdom and concern that we share together on the issue of young people. Of course, it must always be said that, fortunately, the majority of young people have managed well in the midst of this corona period, have done their schooling well, have been able to be good friends with young people who have had a difficult time. These young people should also say thank you for living in this difficult time. On this very subject — the digital environment, the invisible world at which children and young people spend hours of their day, at which parents often pondered the appropriate boundaries — the government discussed yesterday when it considered a strategy for children, which is a fine demonstration of the power of parliamentaryism, an entity approved by all parties, which was already being prepared during the last parliamentary term. In the context of its implementation, we discussed precisely how this digital environment should be reflected in the lives of children and young people, which you well described in your speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u96	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u97	Mr President! Indeed, all the parliamentary groups are committed to a child strategy, and in that respect we must say that, together after decades, we have come up with a clear plan on how to better promote the living conditions of children and young people and the rights of children and young people in this country over the next few decades. There are also many suggestions for improvement, and this digital environment is also addressed in the context of the strategy for children. There are real threats, and the digital environment as the operating environment for children and young people is particularly highlighted during the corona era. That is why strong positions have also been taken with the cooperation of all the parliamentary groups that this programme will then be one for the package of measures in which it is beginning to take shape on the basis of these common lines. The next step is now that we are publishing that program, all together as parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u98	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u99	Thank you, Mr President. The opportunities for exercise have been unequaled during the corona. The sports facilities of municipalities are closed, and those people who through organisations have been involved in such free or very inexpensive forms of exercise, are not allowed to engage, but, accordingly, those with money are still engaged. All hobbies have functioned normally on the private side. Why has the government unequaled the ability of children to move and interact with others during the corona period? And now that you are now threatening to catch up with the private side too, do you know the effects they have on the well-being of children and the well-being of families? And the second question is that these acts of violence are generally linked by the fact that there has been long-standing bullying and this has not been addressed. And one important thing that I think should be done is that families should be supported at the times when they need it. However, we have had such a mentality for a long time that we only add professional helpers to school and think that it will replace the father’s deficit, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u100	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u101	Mr President! That's right. We need to help our families. Services must work, financial support must be provided, and in this respect Finland is also a great country in many ways. When you described the problems related to the inequality of hobbies, this is, of course, the background to the Act on communicable diseases and the possibilities for the authorities in the regions to make restrictive decisions in their current form, and today I understand that Parliament has completed its report on this, that these tools will come to the regional authorities, more action will be taken if the disease situation gets worse. But in fact, I think that the situation in Finland is going in exactly the opposite direction, as you described in your concern. This government has decided to implement the Finnish model of hobby, a free hobby for each child in connection with the school day. At this stage, 117 municipalities are experimenting with it, and even in these difficult times, schools with a combined health security system are carrying out it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u102	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u103	Mr President! In times of interest crisis, as in other times, children and young people are protected by a safe everyday life, which includes the support and meaningful doing of parents and other educators. Many municipalities have already had a long break from hobbies, as have the activities of youth houses, for example. Not all families have similar opportunities or routines to replace the missing gap. This week, guidance from THL, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture on the organisation of hobby activities during the corona was completed. The starting point was that hobby activities for persons under 12 years of age should not be completely discontinued. I consider this to be a very important line, and I thank you for that. However, the long-standing restrictions and uncertainty about the future have already led to an increased suspension of hobbies, and new hobbies are not started in the same way. At the meeting we presented a detective companionship that could bring all children and young people into the hobby.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u104	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u105	Mr President! I find that proposal interesting, and I would like to get to know it more closely. Of course, it is clear that there is a lot of activity in the everyday life of children and young people in Finland, both in physical activity and in other hobbies, led by volunteers, smart adults, and sports clubs, for example, are the driving force behind Finland in many ways. That is why, even during the corona period, we have allocated additional support to these sports clubs, not only to many other financial support, but also to them, and they are currently in the process of seeking and preparing. The closure of facilities and the reduction in hobby activities is certainly regrettable, but at the same time I say that this government is committed to keeping the disease under control if the number of contacts is reduced, and now, of course, the aim is for adults to be able to reduce their contacts, which is why Parliament is also living in exceptional circumstances, in order to shift the focus from children and young people to adults.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u106	Next question, Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u107	Mr President! The Government has set itself the target of increasing the biofuel sales obligation to 30% by 2029. This is going to raise the price of fuels, that's for sure. The city centre has announced that fuel prices will not rise. So I ask you, Minister Saarikko: are you going to reduce the sales obligation, or is the government going to pay the hundreds of millions of bills that this will cause?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u108	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u109	Mr President! This question mainly concerns taxation. This isn't party Question Time, but I'm gonna answer it anyway. The Centre has not spoken about the price of liquid fuels, but about the taxation of liquid fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u110	A supplementary question, Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u116	Mr President! How do we know what will be the price of fossil fuels in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u119	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u120	Mr President! Minister Vanhanen gave a good answer to this. This road map for fossil-free transport is under the authority of Minister Haraka and the whole package in preparation, and of course the government ministers would like to be here to answer questions, but we have had to limit our participation in the ministers that Parliament and the opposition and parliamentary parties have wanted, and, for example, Mr Harakka is not wanted to answer questions today. So I would hope that when only seven of us are allowed to be here, then the ministers will be invited to respond to the matters of their administration. I know that Mr Harakka would certainly have liked to have been here to answer this very question from the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u121	Now we move on to the procedure with one question and one answer, followed by Mrs Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u122	Madam President! We are now living at this point in the second corona spring, and especially for children this has been a really long time in their lives and seems long. However, the government has wisely stated that basic education will only be transferred to remote education as a last resort. However, I am also very concerned about the ability of high school students and Amish in distance education. It is difficult for young people in remote education to maintain important relationships with friends, and at the same time, leisure activities are also very limited, especially when public leisure places are closed. The most difficult situation is in families where coping is tight, for example because of financial problems, because private individuals take a heavy charge for their hobbies and children are unable to attend. I would like to ask, Mr President, how the government promotes a whole in which children's and young people's lives, in particular hobby activities,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u123	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u124	Mr President! It is quite true that this period of a year has taken a great deal of parents, a great deal of teachers, and, of course, in children's lives too, this has raised many questions and an exceptional period of time, and we recognise and know that, in the situation of young people, we also see mental health problems and an increase in anxiety. At the same time, it is our job to live for two hours: to think about how to deal with every day in the midst of this crisis, but now to prepare for the measures that we are going to take after that, like after the earthquake the next morning, when the morning comes to light and see what has happened. With regard to hobbies, as has already been mentioned here, the Ministry and THL have jointly developed the principles of safe exercise. After all, the question is not just whether or not to do it, yes or no. First of all, there are many kinds of hobbies, and the most important thing is how safe adults are,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u125	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u126	Mr President! Holiday trips and business trips have stopped at the interest rate, and all travel must continue to be avoided. Hope is brought about by the interest - rate accolades that are now being given almost all over the world. They will make travelling easier in the future. Denmark has announced that it will introduce a digital corona passport in the summer. The aim is to allow vaccine recipients to travel more freely and no longer need a negative test. Sweden has announced that it will develop a similar system, and this trend is similar in the United States.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u127	Mr President! This is the whole which has been discussed together at the European Council, the last European Council discussed, and I am sure that we will come back to this issue many times this spring. It would be absolutely essential for us to have a common European solution to this. We would also need a common European solution to border issues as a whole and to the health security of travel, and, accordingly, now that vaccinations are progressing, we need a common European solution to the way in which the vaccine evidence is given, for example, when it comes to moving across the border. This is the kind of thing that we must work together to find answers to this, and this work is being done. Finland has taken the view that we want to promote such a passport or a set of certificates.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u128	Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u129	Madam President! Questions related to matriculation examination: 2020 was a challenging year for abiturients and young people in general. Adapting to distance education, exceptional arrangements for matriculation examinations and uncertainty about future admission test arrangements were of great concern. The extra stress and stress came to many students. I saw it myself close when in my own family my daughter had to write five matriculation aids in five days last spring. There was not much time left for recovery. Now, as this pandemic continues, there are exceptional arrangements for the articles this spring, and I ask Minister of Education Saramo: how have we tried to respond to the young people and their preparation for these articles now, and what arrangements and guidelines have been made for municipalities and education providers that health safety can also be provided this spring for the matriculation examination?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u130	Minister Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u131	Madam President! The situation of secondary students is very worrying. The Government has granted interest subsidies of EUR 17 million to help young people cope and to fill learning gaps in upper secondary school education. The organisers have been able to support the preparation of upper secondary school students’ matriculation examination by, for example, organising repeatable courses and providing small group and support education. In itself, this corona situation causes those preparing for the writings a great deal of anxiety and stress, as the questioner said, and what is essential is that it is now predictable that we have been able to tell in advance how the articles will be arranged, and a large number of special arrangements have already been decided on last year's side, which have then been made available on the website, for example. When you say here that five days have been in a row, one example is that test days have been decentralized in order to reduce the number of students assembled at a time. This decentralisation is in the interests of these candidates, because then we will have smaller numbers of candidates.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u132	On this point, I will continue to say that in this Chamber, you are not to be called, you are not to be called.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u133	We will take Mr Aittakummu's question. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u134	Madam President! Let me return to this important subject: the situation of children, young people and families, which we have already talked about. Even before the corona, the situation was difficult in many families. The well-being of children and young people is impaired, for example, by the breakdown of families, problem drug use, mental health problems and economic difficulties. During this period, the government has in the right direction strengthened the services of our country's children, young people and families throughout the country. Services for children, young people and families are the responsibility of municipalities, and municipalities in many respects decide on a practical level how to take care of the well-being of children and families. Many people are now particularly concerned about how the municipalities will be able to carry out their tasks when this crisis is prolonged, and I would like to ask the minister concerned: what concrete steps is the government going to take to encourage and support the municipalities to continue to adhere to these services?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u135	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u136	Mr President! The fundamental question is really to see that municipalities are now being taken in every direction, that is to say, there is a need, both in the preventive sense and at the country's borders, there is also a need for traceability, success and testing — and this is already the case for basic tasks in the municipalities themselves. But it is also absolutely essential to support children and young people, on the one hand, and the elderly, on the other hand, that there should probably be more and more of these specific measures in both groups, and the support of parenthood in this time is absolutely essential if we are to be able to cope with this corona crisis. Last year we supported children's and young people's daily lives with a total of EUR 320 million in the amending budget on learning outcomes, well-being and equality. Surely this same question lies ahead because we also carried out an impact assessment in the context of the hybrid strategy update, and in this respect we are now having the same debate. Social welfare and health care
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u137	Like this. This Question Time is over, let's move on to other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u138	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TrVM 7/2020 by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided. — Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u139	Mr President, I am sorry I was late for this. We therefore have before us today a report from the Committee on Audit on the report of the auditors of Parliament on the annual accounts, the annual accounts and the accounts of the National Audit Office, and so does UPI and Parliament. — Can I deal with all of these together, or will they be dealt with separately? Mr President, Members of Parliament! The Audit Committee has consulted, among other things, the Chairman of the Auditors and the Director-General of the Audit Office on the financial statements, the activity report and the accounting and management of VTV for 2019. I note that the auditors' reports have been so-called clean, i.e. these auditors have had no comment. The Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice. In its report, the committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use, as well as the costs of operations and their changes. In its reports in recent years, the Audit Committee has paid particular attention to the development of the Agency's well-being at work and the shortcomings in staff surveys. In 2019, no staff questionnaire was organised at the Audit Office, as the Agency’s management reform is undergoing a transition period and the new operating model is gradually being phased in. The committee notes that it will continue to monitor developments in the Agency's well-being at work. In its proposal for a decision, the committee has proposed that Parliament should have no objections to this report, and the report was indeed unanimous in the Audit Committee. However, on the outside of this report, the Audit Committee has today discussed the issues raised in public about the operation of VTV and has taken an informal decision that the committee will raise the issue of the internal control and risk management of the National Audit Office in the financial management. But I'm sure we'll come back to this later. If the President agrees, I will also discuss the report of the Audit Committee on the report of the auditors on the annual accounts, the annual report and the accounting and the management of the Institute for Foreign Policy for 2019. — In other words, the Audit Committee has also heard the chairman of the auditors and the director of the Institute, and I note that the auditors' reports have been so-called clean, i.e. there has been no comment from the auditors. In other words, the Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice. In its report, the committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use, operational costs and changes. As far as the Institute for Foreign Affairs is concerned, the committee has not raised any specific issues. In its proposal for a decision, the Audit Committee unanimously proposes that Parliament should have no objections to the reports. Then, in turn, the Parliament’s auditors’ report on Parliament’s financial statements, annual report and accounts and on the administration for 2019: The Audit Committee has consulted among other things the chairman of the auditors, the administrator of Parliament and the experts in Parliament's information management, and I note that the auditors' reports have been so-called clean, that is, there has been no comment from the auditors. The Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice. In its report, the committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use, operational costs and changes. As far as Parliament is concerned, the committee has raised the issue of information security. In other words, the committee is pleased that Parliament's auditors have assessed the level of parliamentary security. It is important that the recommendations for the development of the evaluation are also implemented. It is justified, among other things, to set up an information security steering group in order to develop and steer operations in a comprehensive way. It is important to test the functioning of critical systems for different types of disruptions in advance, and the Audit Committee has stressed that there should be sufficient expertise in security issues in the Parliamentary Office and it is also important to verify the expertise and adequacy of external service providers in the event of a disruption. The committee has raised, among other things, increased security threats related to the use of digitalisation and cloud computing. In its proposal for a decision, the Audit Committee has unanimously proposed that Parliament should have no objections to the reports. I would like to thank the President for his flexibility in allowing me to present all of these in such a clumsy manner. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u140	Like this. — In other words, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, said, he presented points 9, 10 and 11. Nevertheless, I think it would be good to have a debate here first on paragraph 9, i.e. the auditor's audit report on Parliament's financial statements, the annual report and accounting and the administration for 2019, and then we go to the following issues. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I will take a position on just one point in this committee's report, which is to say this Parliament's audit report, and that is to ensure the security of Parliament. As the report also states, the auditors have been subject to a special review of the management of parliamentary security, and we will continue to monitor this issue there, which is to say that we still have auditors to monitor. The Parliament must ensure that we have enough people with expertise on security issues, which means that special expertise is needed to identify threats and risks proactively already and that all possible network protections are in place. The identification of security risks related to teleworking and the continuous development of remote tools and programmes is also important, and I therefore agree with the committee in this report that there is a need to increase Parliament's expertise in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u142	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u143	Mr President! I would now like to check, when it is somewhat unclear to me, whether we are also dealing with the Institute for Foreign Affairs in this connection, or whether it is only in the next stage? [PresidentAnuVehviläinen: In point 11.]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u146	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u147	Madam President! Just as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised this issue of security in his own speech, I myself drew attention to this very issue in this report by the Committee on Audit. These security issues if some are more topical than ever. We recently received information that the data breach had taken place in our Parliament's e-mails. It is a serious matter, and these things must be able to prevent, because we go all the time more and more to digital material for our meetings and we also need to be able to move that material in confidence so that no outsiders can access it. It is not very many years when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was broken into on the security side, and Finland did not even notice this, but this information came from Sweden to us that we have this kind of security breach. These are serious questions. That's when we got involved. During the last period, we made legislation in order to be able to intervene more effectively in this type of matter. But the more time this takes and this digitalisation develops, the more essential these security issues will become. And not just now, then, talk about what is happening inside the computer equipment. I am also very concerned that we have enough of these safe spaces in this country, where we can have the discussions that no one else can hear. And this is where the central government must, in future, pay particular attention to the fact that such security facilities are secured for the use of both Parliament and the state administration as a whole. These are the questions that cannot be taken lightly, but these questions must be taken extremely seriously, that we have this whole decision-making process and all these things especially security-related confidential discussions, questions, negotiations can be handled. In other words, the Committee on Audit has drawn attention to this quite rightly, because it has come up in practice in other areas as well, and I hope that both in Parliament and in the state administration, these issues will now be taken very, very seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u148	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u152	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 8/2020 by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto has already taken the floor, so is there another speaker?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u153	Mr President! I have just made a presentation on these three audit reports, which is no longer necessary. I'm listening, and maybe I'll make a closing statement. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u154	Okay. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u155	Madam President! Parliament supervises the administration of the state's finances. It is the task of the Audit Committee to make Parliament aware of its significant monitoring findings. The Audit Office has an influence on the compliance with regulations and principles of good governance in the financial management of the State. The Agency's own values include accountability and transparency. The National Audit Office is doing important work. Good governance involves trust. The Government Audit Office’s own activities have been raised in the media. In December 2020 the Ombudsman made a comment to the Office’s management on the organisation of posts in which the salary was paid without an obligation to work and to remain at the office. According to the media data, the use of bonus points from the Director General’s official flights has also remained unclear. Trust has suffered. The operating culture of the Agency is more important than a single arrangement or bonus points. The operating culture must increase trust in the agency and Finnish administration. The Executive Director writes on the Agency’s website: ‘In the case of potential conflicts of interest,it is not the most important thing that we do not have,but it is the other way around. “ It is undeniable that the public's confidence in the Agency's diligence in the use of funds has suffered. Trust must be restored. Mr President! The question has to be asked: Who supervises the overseer, and who inspects the inspector? The National Audit Office has an internal auditor and the internal auditor is supported by an internal audit statute. According to the Statute, the internal audit functions under the authority of the Executive Director. The internal auditor shall draw up an inspection report. The internal audit shall report without delay to the Executive Director on significant deficiencies or irregularities in internal control or risk management. The Statute shall put the internal auditor in an awkward position if he finds shortcomings in the activities of the Executive Director. He would therefore have to report to the Director-General on the abuse of the Director-General himself. The inspector should have the right and obligation to report directly to the Audit Committee without intermediary on matters relating to the Director-General's own activities. The Statute needs to be updated. Trust must be restored. Madam President! The Rules of Procedure of the National Audit Office determine how to proceed when preparing for parliamentary committee hearings. The Rules of Procedure require an official of the Audit Office to inform the Director-General if he is invited to appear before a parliamentary committee. The official shall submit his written proposal for verification to the Executive Director in good time before the committee hearing. It's right to keep the wire informed. However, the situation is not without problems. Should the Audit Committee decide to invite an internal auditor to the committee to examine the management function, the written material should be submitted in advance to the Director-General for review. The Director-General would therefore review the proposal for himself before the committee presentation. Trust in the objectivity of the proposal suffers. Objectiveness is also one of the values of the Agency. Trust in established values suffers. In such a case, the Rules of Procedure should indicate that the internal auditor shall report to the committee without prior verification. The Rules of Procedure must be updated and confidence restored. Mr President, the papers have been mixed up. Just give me a second. [The PresidentAnuVehviläinen : In peace, you can sort papers. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u158	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u159	Mr President! The National Audit Office is doing a very important job as part of the State Audit and, as the chairman of the committee and also Mr Kiuru said, the committee has today unanimously decided, at its informal meeting, to take the situation of the National Audit Office on its own account and to open consultations immediately next week. In this context, I would like to point out that Parliament's auditors will also deal with this issue at their meeting next week before the committee's deliberations. It is in everyone's interest that the issues raised in the media should be clarified quickly. The aim of the audit is always to learn, and now it is up to us to find out whether, for example, there is learning in the processes and structures of the audit agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u160	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u161	Madam President! Indeed, the National Audit Office is an agency that absolutely needs to enjoy confidence, and now the situation is that, by decision of the Parliamentary Ombudsman, confidence has been undermined and confidence has been undermined. Of course, this matter has been dealt with in its own way, but now a lot of messages have come out from the staff that not everything in the agency is in order, that there has been criticism, among other things, of management, and these messages have been anonymous. Either way, as I said, the National Audit Office must enjoy confidence, and any ambiguity must now be clarified. Mr Kiuru has just spoken well and justified why we should postpone this matter, leave it on the table in plenary, and that is a perfectly justified demand, and I support his proposal to place it on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u162	With the support of Mr Tolvanen, Mr Kiuru has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on Wednesday 10.2. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table? — No, it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u163	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 9/2020 by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, was this also a previous presentation, which is shown on this list of speakers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u164	It was, in other words, I have already gone through this unanimous report by the Parliamentary Audit Committee on this matter, so that there is nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u165	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u166	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee said in his own presentation, there is nothing to comment on in the accounts and in the annual report of the Institute for Foreign Policy. But in this context, I would like to promote and thank the Institute for its work. The Institute is a research institute responsible for producing high-quality and up-to-date information on international relations and EU affairs. The Institute publishes excellent and high-quality publications and reports, which are certainly worth getting to know. In these fragile times of international politics, the role of the Institute has become even more important, and it is very useful for us parliamentarians to get to know its publications — I have learned a lot of new things from it. So, in summary, the Institute is doing a really good job, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u167	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u168	Mr President! Also very generally and briefly from the point of view of the contents of this Institute: I myself have long followed various think tanks and think tanks around the world in terms of external relations and economic relations and many other things, and now that I am thinking of this From the point of view of parliamentary work, the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy — and I also have a very good number of foreign affairs on my own desk here in Parliament — can say that it has worked quite well. In Parliament there may be more foreign policy debate here in the Chamber and elsewhere, and if you think about the activities of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where I am also involved, there is of course such a formality, a lot of things being dealt with in a definite way — there may be some own issues that the committee raises, and there may be various trips and even more informal meetings — but clearly this is a deeper analysis of what the Institute of Foreign Policy does and produces, brings a valuable addition. Indeed, there are often these quick analyses, i.e. these FIIA Briefing Papers, and then there are deeper discussions and panels now and then during the corona — they have been arranged at a distance in these webinars, but they have worked quite nicely — and there is also such a more theoretical political reflection, which is very profound and has a role to play. I would see that those who do good work and have added value to parliamentary work, especially when there are topical issues and quick issues, complex issues that combine, for example, external relations, economic relations and where there is also a need for a profound vision to support this parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u169	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u170	Madam President! It is nice to hear that the FIIA, the Institute for Foreign Policy, is praised and its activities are welcomed. I myself will be able to follow this very closely in the role of the chairman of this negotiating board. Of course, this negotiating body will monitor the economic development and the fact that we stick to the financial bodies that have been allocated and the financial resources, but of course even more of this qualitative content that these studies produce. ♪ Without this ♪ The Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, our foreign policy expertise and this whole debate in the media and the discovery of these experts, research — all of them — would be on a much thinner footing in this country, and that is why our own Think tank has its place. Especially in this last few months, when the situation of the presidential elections in the United States has been monitored, these leading experts have appeared precisely through the Institute for Foreign Policy, and this analysis has also been made available to us. The best thing about these studies is that they produce objective, independent information, which we can then make use of ourselves to the extent we see fit. This is, of course, the central issue that should be. From the point of view of the negotiating board, it is up to us to take the greetings of Parliament to the Institute for Foreign Policy, to look at this a little bit like it did on the surface. I would be happy to take them, and I am sure that all of us in the negotiating council, who are mainly made up of parliamentarians, will receive them and take them. We too are in this remote-working mode, if that is what we can say, that all meetings are currently being held at a distance and consultations are also being held, but I think that will be the case again this year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u171	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u175	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u176	Madam President! I have no comment here either on this report itself or on the report by the Committee on Audit, but now that we have had a lot of thanks from colleagues to our Institute for Foreign Affairs, I would also like to add my own thanks. The Institute for Foreign Policy is doing a very good and very important job. Madam President! Now that we have our main foreign policy debaters in this Chamber, perhaps I should like to give them some thought now, and perhaps even the representatives of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy will have the following: Indeed, even though the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy has done a very good and wide-ranging job and is, of course, looking at foreign policy issues in a very diverse way, I myself would like to see the Arctic issues raised more actively in the Finnish foreign policy debate. And although these are very everyday issues for us, few of them will be actively raised in the framework of the European Union, or even more internationally, if we do not do so ourselves. However, the importance of this Arctic region is constantly increasing at an increasing pace, both here in Europe and in international politics. In this respect, all the openings to the debate on this theme that we can do are more than welcome. One concrete example, for example, when the EU, even in the fear of Brexit in the run-up to a referendum, withdrew from this idea of having such an EU Arctic Information Centre in Finland — that was a good concrete plan for how it could have been located in the Arctic Centre of the University of Lapland. In other words, this type of concrete opening, where Finland would gain this ownership of Arctic policy at both EU and wider level, within the global framework, we should be actively involved in doing so. But thank you for this good debate so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u177	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u178	Mr President! To this concern raised by Mr Kiljunen that in a way these appointments to this Government of the Institute for Foreign Policy will follow in relation to political relations: I wouldn't worry about this very much. At the moment, there are no MPs on the board of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs — there are, of course, former MPs, even very experienced ones, from different political groups, not from the social democrats at the moment. However, it is the government's task to ensure that the economy in the Institute for Foreign Policy and the research content are both independent and the whole purpose of this Institute for Foreign Policy. But then there's this board. In this context, we are also monitoring the functioning of that government, and if there were a situation where there is reason to doubt this independence, then certainly we, as a negotiating board, would react to it. And here I can once again alleviate Mr Kiljunen's concern about this political division insofar as all the political groups are represented there. In fact, the Social Democrats have a double presence, because there are also representatives of Erkki Tuomioja represented there, and the Social Democrats are represented by Mrs Kristiina Salonen, Vice-President of your parliamentary group — so the vote will also be heard there. But all in all in foreign policy we have this tradition that we cherish this consensus, the consensus we seek, and in this kind of research it is also absolutely central.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u179	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u183	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 43/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Representative Salmon — Gone. Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u184	Mr President! First of all, I would have thanked the chairman of the committee for his presentation, but I have now missed it. As Chairman of the Kela delegation, I would like to say from the committee's opinion that I consider it very important and valuable that the organisation which is responsible for the most vulnerable and which is wrestling with them, such as the Social Insurance Institution, be subject to parliamentary supervision. Although this may not necessarily be taken for granted in the future, I myself would consider it to be an important matter. The committee has also taken into account the issues constantly monitored by Kela's delegates, such as processing times and the purchase of taxis, which are constantly monitored by Kela's delegates only because the target is groups of people who may not be able to stand up for their own rights. Finally, a parliamentary working party will be appointed — the names will certainly be in the collection process — so that the Kela legislation can be reformed. There are three baskets of legal changes that are necessary and the easiest of which are simple, but the most difficult are precisely the targeting of how Kela’s role and position will be located in the future. The interest is probably already moving in the direction of the Annual Activity Report 2020 because Kela was then wrestling with a major corona crisis, as in many other areas. The feedback from the customer community about the survival of the year 20 has been exceptionally positive. The Kela has been able to adopt new operating methods and has also been able to take care of the personal meeting of customers to the extent possible in the shadow of the corona. I still have to thank Kela's staff for stretching. Eli has been very difficult for years in this couple of pieces in the back, and Kela’s staff have been doing well and stretched really well. Now, however, we in this Parliament must remember Kela's resources in the future. Kela’s resources are not just that income support falls into an account or anything else. The costs of use have been reduced and the cheese has been planed here for many years, and now, however, resources should also be available to enable computer systems and others, for example, to be updated to this level. I would hope that this will also be kept in mind when we talk about Kela's budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u185	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u186	Madam President! Just as Mr Slunga-Poutsalo said, this report deals with 2019, when the interest rate and its limitation measures were not yet reflected in Kela's operations. However, I would also like to thank Mr Kela for the fine way in which he has been able to cope with these changing situations in the midst of the corona crisis, when there have even been entirely new benefits and many benefits have been affected. It is important that: Kela has also paid attention to the clarity of communication. Even when using Kela’s services, I have noticed how it has developed and improved. In the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we therefore consider it important that customer service takes account of the different categories of customers and the clarity of communication and the equality of services. We also highlighted in the report the importance of further developing online services, as has been done, and at the same time ensuring the smooth use of services for those who do not use the network for some reason. In accordance with our good government programme and in line with the previous opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Kela's administration and services are now being clarified. As we have just heard, this working group is now in the process of being set up, and I welcome the fact that it is being done parliamentaryly when the work of Kela is being developed and examined so that things can be cleared up and viewed from as many perspectives as possible. I hope and think it is important that the work of the Kela Group also takes into account the work of the Sotu Committee, which is already under way, and also the work of the Social Affairs Committee then takes into account the work of the Kela Group, because they deal in part with the same issues when one of the important objectives of the war is that we should be able to dismantle the so-called'support jungle' and the possible complexity of benefits and thus improve the access of citizens to the benefits and services they need. Two important groups, the Kela Group and the Sotu Committee, are working, and I am sure that we will also be able to develop the important activities of Kela. I also hope for a good wind for the work of the Kela Group. It is a question of the welfare of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u187	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u188	Mr President! In this speech, I will comment selectively on three issues in this report by the delegates and in the report by the committee, despite the fact that the report deals with 2019. In that sense, the activity report deals with outdated time. But I understand that most Members of Parliament receive regular feedback on the failure of the interpretation services in Kela. I find it very strange that this is not something that can be done in Finland. Interpreting services are a prerequisite for equality, and it is therefore unacceptable that the finding of an interpreter should be influenced, for example, by the day of the week in which the interpretation takes place — as stated in the Kela Annual Report. The realisation and inclusion of a disabled person's own-looking life may require, for example, the right to an interpretation service, a personal assistant and a transport service. Disability services are not about additional services or discretionary benefits, but they are about the legal protection of the right to equal participation in society also on Tuesday, which is said to be difficult to organise. The failure of interpreting services is a barrier to equality. Now, many of us in this House have received the message in recent days that the latest competition for interpretation services and its criteria clearly discriminate against young graduates. The sector is concerned about the future and the attractiveness of the sector. Over the years, there have been many problems with the tendering of interpretation services, and I therefore wonder whether we should look at the situation on a completely new basis. The committee also notes that the long-term development of Kela's procurement needs to be continued. My second comment concerns the transfer of basic income support from municipalities to the Social Insurance Institution in 2017. Last autumn, the Audit Committee dealt with this issue in depth, and the Committee noted that the transfer did not fully meet the objectives of the reform. The savings targets set for the reform did not materialise, and the situation of the most vulnerable even deteriorated. The availability and accessibility of services was particularly difficult for customers who, for one reason or another, are unable to apply for income support electronically. The reform had benefited those who only applied for basic income support without special needs. The application for supplementary and preventive income support became more complex, as it was first necessary to apply for and obtain a decision on basic income before applying for supplementary or preventive income support. Cooperation between Kela and municipalities did not work in the desired way. It is excellent that Kela’s delegates have drawn attention to these serious shortcomings. They have identified shortcomings in, for example, risk management, project management and reporting. The major problem with the reform as a whole was that the financial impact, and in particular the customer impact, was very inadequately assessed. We need to learn from the mistakes and remember, especially if they are major projects, that there is enough time for implementation. It is important that the delegates continue to monitor the situation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also welcomes the fact that the delegates are monitoring the increase in the number of rejection decisions and the reasons behind them. The Committee stresses that the development of cooperation between Kela and municipalities is particularly important in order to facilitate the smooth running of customer affairs. According to the report, Kela is now holding regular cooperation meetings with municipal social professionals. In addition, Kela has carried out various experiments in cooperation with municipalities to develop joint operating models. These are very good steps forward in order to remedy this situation. Mr President! Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The great thing is that a Incomes Register has been introduced in Kela, which makes it possible to improve the efficiency of service and benefit processes, because the customer does not have to supply Kela with the necessary income information to resolve the benefit application, but the information is immediately available to Kela. This is an expected and customer-oriented reform. Finally, the creation of a parliamentary working party is very much to be welcomed. It is good that it starts because Kela's operations need to be developed all the time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u189	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u190	Madam President! This report on the activities of the Social Insurance Institution’s delegates is always interesting to read, and here it is now striking that the number of offices in Kela seems to be falling, and it will certainly decrease even further. At the same time, there is a tremendous concern that when everyone has never used computers, there has never been, and never will be — there are such persons — how to secure their services. This is something that needs particular attention. In fact, the same phenomenon is repeated in very many other offices, starting with banks. Banks and all offices have become much more difficult to use by people who do not have computers, and the services are thinning and concentrating. More attention should be paid to the fact that everyone has a fair opportunity to take part in the management of matters easily.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u191	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u192	Madam President! Indeed, thank you to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for this report and, above all, of course, to Kela's delegates for a report which is really interesting and important to read, and this really is not a trivial issue. Indeed, when the benefits that Kela has passed through are almost EUR 15 billion a year, this is a hugely big issue that affects all of us Finns at some point in our lives, of course, so in this sense we are at the centre of a big issue. It is very valuable that Mrs Slunga-Poutsalo, the chairman of the Kela delegation, is here to follow up the debate, and in this respect I would now like to raise this point, Mr President, which the delegates themselves state in their own report, but which has not really come up with in that committee report, namely that the citizens are still concerned about these taxi journeys that Kela has replaced, and in this sense, despite what you have said in your report, that you are closely involved and that there have been various improvements to the situation which the report states. Yes, at least my own experience as a Member of Parliament is that it is precisely on this issue that contacts with citizens are being made and that it is hoped that the customer feedback and, on the other hand, perhaps some opportunity to increase the freedom of choice for those who need it, in connection with organising their own ride, would bring such experience of everyday safety and control to the people who are involved in these services. In this respect, I am sure that Parliament will have a broad appreciation for the work you have done and efforts have been made to bring improvements to the situation. I am sure that we will continue to encourage you to continue this important work here, because these specific questions are regularly, at least to myself, and I believe that colleagues in the wider context of these taxi journeys paid by Kela will meet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u193	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u194	Madam President! In fact, there are two things I would like to draw attention to. The first is the procurement procedures, on which this report has also taken the view that they have been criticised. It is extremely important that there is sufficient supply expertise, because the cheapest price that is always below the line is not the cheapest overall price. At least in our province there are examples of how Kela rehabilitation could have gone to a neighbouring region after these competitions. This price has been slightly lost by the local entrepreneur, but the total price has become more expensive for society since these customers had to be transported by taxi to another place to take this rehabilitation. This type of competition and the criteria that are put in it should be eliminated. It is extremely important that it is recognised here that there have been criticisms of these procurements, and then that Kela’s delegates have been awake here, and that they should also be corrected. The second point I draw attention to, Madam President, is that there are people who do not necessarily have access to these services from their own home computer for one reason or another and do not own the machine. As the actual number of Kela points has decreased, the municipalities are of course able to work well by organising these services closer, for example, through such joint service points. In Ähtäri, where I live, this was done a few years ago, and you can make an appointment to go to a videoconferencing either with Kela persons, with the police, the TE Office, legal aid, financial, debt counselling, tax authorities, and these are also extremely important in that locality, a short distance away, because many times those who need it are not able to use their own car. So this type of service we need and it is good to be able to provide, but here, of course, municipalities are key to organising these together. All in all, it is good that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has raised these issues in this report, and it seems good for the economy that there has been no comment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u195	Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u196	Madam Speaker! With a few comments on this good debate, which has taken place here. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised a very important issue: The year 2019 and a few years before that were a little sad years for these very competitions and procurements and taxi rides and all possible transfer of income support. But it may be a comfort to say that interpretation services have been developed, among other things, together with customers, since then to a reasonable degree. There is still some work to be done there, and in general there is still work to be done by Kela to bring these purchases into line with this kind of registration procedure — but it is progressing that it is no longer a wish that has been thrown into the air, but is being worked on. Then we've picked up these cab rides. Kela rides are such a permanent topic, and now is 21 C.E., when these taxi rides come again for discussion, re-competition, so this is a very topical issue. Changing this so that Kela rides work beyond Ring 3 would be very important. I would therefore like to see such a lively cooperation in the Government-Opposition front that a few minor changes in the law would bring this matter in order that both Lapland and Lohjan Karjalyja could arrange a Kela ride. And now to the number of these offices. This has already been quite a good speech on the subject. The fact that Kela’s office leaves the locality does not necessarily mean that Kela’s services leave the locality, but that Kela’s services can be improved by moving together with the social work of the TE Offices and municipalities to the same premises, so that the social support that Kela’s customers often need can be found under the same roof, which is very, very good development, and in that direction I encourage people on the local government side to continue to go. Care must be taken to ensure that Kela’s services do not require fine IT skills, but are accessible to all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u197	Conversation... - Excuse me, I was about to say that I did not see the floor a moment ago, but Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u198	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo, for these answers, but now that you are here, I would like to ask you now: has this come to you, let us say now, within a week, a message from the interpreters, precisely, about their concern that this tendering, those tendering criteria will now distort competition in such a way that the newly completed young interpreters will not be able to work on these competitive criteria? This is the kind of thing that's come all new now. As I said in my speech, there is still a certain amount coming from customers, as I said, that neither has the experience of customers that they can't get when they need it. So they feel that their equal rights are not being fulfilled, but there has been a real improvement. But this came as a whole new thing. Do you have some kind of clarification on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u199	Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u200	Mr President! Of course, there is no clear message for this distress, but I have heard similar rumours about it. These are certainly issues which the Kela Bureau of Deputies, at its first meeting, now that we can get the year started again, will draw attention to, because this proportion of young interpreters has been terribly small in the past and there have been so many challenges in that those who need interpretation are very committed to the interpreters they have used for years. This is a rather difficult palette to make just and human to those who use interpreters. This interest rate also brought its own interpretation challenges to the extent to which the interpreter is able to be involved and more. But this is something that will be paid attention. Thank you for this message.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u201	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u202	Madam President! In spring 2020, the Koronapandemia led to extensive and practically a year-long restrictions on the normal functioning of society. These restrictions, despite the economic stimulus measures, have resulted in significant losses for many industries as these exceptional circumstances continue to persist. Self-employed people who are in distress rightly call on the government and parliament to seek out and urgently implement more ways to improve the conditions for new economic growth and to prevent a wave of bankruptcy. Madam President! In the province of Lapland alone, the direct turnover of the tourism industry and its related services is about EUR 1 billion, with a multiplier effect of EUR 1 billion. Last year, according to an estimate made by the Lapland Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of the Finnish Tourism Industries, tourism turnover is decreasing by half in relation to the period before the pandemic. The number of unemployed people is feared to increase by 4,000 people in the tourism sector, and more than 160 businesses in a total of 200 establishments were threatened, according to the current situation, to go bankrupt by the summer of June 21, unless there was a rapid change in the situation. I know that all these days we are getting a more detailed picture of the situation in these areas. I am afraid that the situation is still very gloomy. The recovery of domestic tourism is important for the national economy as a whole, but domestic tourists will neither save nor in the future save the tourist companies most hit by the corona. Nearly 70 per cent of Lapland's tourism is international tourists, more than 80 per cent of Finland's holiday seasons, and as many as 90 per cent of many Lappish companies' results come from international tourism. Since international tourism is now completely stagnant, only rapid government action can dampen the merciless economic blow experienced by the tourism industry. Madam President! In order to encourage the government to take concrete measures, I have drawn up a legislative initiative which sets out as one of the widely supported means of helping the restaurant and tourism sector to fully reduce business representation expenditure. A full right to deduct would have a dual effect on the promotion of business activity: on the one hand, it would bring much-needed customer flows to the tourism and restaurant sector, and at the same time it would allow all Finnish business to catch up with the deficit created by the creation of new business relationships or the maintenance and improvement of former relationships, which has inevitably been created in the context of interest rate restrictions. At present, according to Article 8(1)(8) of the Act on the taxation of business income, 50 % of representative expenditure has been set as a tax deductible component. In these circumstances, because of the prolonged interest rate pandemic and the possibility of economic growth, it is more than justifiable to turn the tax deductibility rate into a full one, which, of course, should be around the same, but at least now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u203	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u204	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Autto for this good bill. This is extremely necessary. This discipline of tourism, which has been caused by this corona, does not only apply to the province of Lapland; it is, of course, more broadly related to tourism in Finland as a whole. For that reason too, it is good to think about the ways in which tourism can get that boost. It is unquestionably clear that companies have not been able to represent themselves in the same way as they have done in the past, have not been able to take their customers to tourist destinations in the same way as they have done in the past, and yet the fact that these representative expenditures have not been fully deductible has not at least increased their willingness to do so. Of course, these disease issues are a priority here. However, it is a good thing that this government has taken a number of measures to enable companies to survive in the midst of this corona crisis. There are different support packages created, but for this type of tourism companies, which works in Lapland and elsewhere in Finland, getting customers is the only way to get real income in their own province. The situation is unquestionably worrying. Of course, the positive aspect of this is that in what is done in tourism, all the money runs in this kind of domestic consumption, which means that the Finns are not going to go for these experiences outside the country at the moment either. But we have to get to the point where we can get the borders open again, and we can get tourists abroad as well. It is a global issue and the question of overcoming this pandemic, and this issue of vaccination in its diversity is crucial. If Mr Autto had figured out the names of this brilliant bill, I would certainly have signed it, but I wish it had been a sincere success in the Committee on Budgets to bring this forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u205	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u209	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u210	Madam President! This raised the issue of business, tourism and taxation. It is true that this corona discipline seems bad for the industry and tourism, but it must also be borne in mind that when tourism starts to open up more, the corona restrictions will be lifted, so if fuel prices are greatly increased in fuel taxation, it can happen that people go abroad and then leave it for less in domestic tourism. Well, that's not good for Finland's competitiveness, of course. I would like the government to pay attention to competitiveness and business in such a way that these fuel prices and taxes would be considered in such a way that, at least in the future, they would not be increased in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u211	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u212	Madam President! With regard to this previous speech, I should like to say that you should worry about it. The increases in fuel taxation have been made. Yes, this concern is common in a country of long distances. You don't have to put an extra price on the fuel. People have to move. But in relation to this bill itself: Yes, we must find the means to ensure that, even after this corona pandemic, companies also have the capacity to carry out this representation activity, so that they can thus also promote their own business and then bring overall benefits through tourism to our economy. That is also why this right of deduction from these representation expenses is certainly such a bountiful factor. Perhaps we should think more broadly about the things that will give us that boost to the economy now, after this pandemic, because it is certain that people want to consume overall, there is a more pent-up need to travel. Just as Mr Reijose's speech was concerned that travel would take place in that case too at home, so we must find the means to do so. Of course, I believe that this is valuable, both through these initiatives and beyond, that this debate can be conducted across the government's opposition borders and find common ways of improving the economy of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u213	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The procedure agreed on in the case of scheduled cases will be followed. The debate begins, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u217	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u218	Mr President! Thank you very much, Your Honor. From Mäkisalo-Roppo not only to prepare this bill but also to present it. I myself have also signed this initiative because I consider it extremely important and sensible. So, of course, the Non-Discrimination Act obliges us to refrain from discrimination. In addition, the law obliges reasonable adjustments to be made in the appropriate and appropriate circumstances. The obligation to make reasonable adjustments concerns authorities, training providers, employers and suppliers of goods or services. Adaptations will promote the ability of people with disability to work, study and use services. So, to clarify the difficult terminology, it can be said that both public authorities and employers are obliged to be flexible in a situation where the conditions for human intervention, for example because of illness, have deteriorated. The purpose of the legislative initiative now under discussion, as we have heard, is to define more precisely what adjustments are required on a case-by-case basis. In particular, it is intended to clarify the need for adaptation, which is also required by cognitive restrictions. As the rapporteur for the legislative initiative said, cognitive restrictions refer to, for example, memory sickness. A huge number of people suffer from memory disorders, some 7,000 Finns of working age. Many of them have been forced to retire as soon as the diagnosis was made. Cognitive restrictions can be facilitated, for example, by adapting work equipment, working environments and working methods. Cognitive adaptation would enable them to extend their working lives even over several years. Then the value of man as a builder of meaningful life, supported by the goodness of society, would be strengthened. Mr President! The clarification of the Non-Discrimination Act on the basis of this initiative would contribute to its application for citizens benefiting from it. The extension of working careers can also be regarded as having positive economic effects, of course, but, above all, it is a guarantee of a more humane society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u219	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u220	Madam President! Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen has often and objectively and very well raised the issue of disabled people, and at the same time he has raised the issue of family carers — I appreciate that. It has been very gratifying to hear that there are legislative initiatives and so forth. I really appreciate it. I attach great importance to this issue of people with disabilities. People with disabilities need to be taken care of. It is quite clear that care must be taken of those who are unable to do so themselves. This is important for us to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u221	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u222	Mr President! Thank you both to Mr Kivisaari and to Mr Reijos. I particularly enjoyed listening to Mr Kivisaari’s expert and profound speech, and thank you for that. Indeed, the rights of people with disabilities are not yet being sufficiently fulfilled in Finland. Both data and attitudes have a lot to fix, and one such thing to correct is that we still do not understand, for example, that memory disorders are also covered by disability diseases, and memory disorders are still denied a lot of benefits that are understood to be quite normal for disabled people. Not only do people with disabilities not always receive the services that would benefit them. This is also shown, for example, here in making reasonable adjustments that there is not enough knowledge and understanding. We would have many disabled people who could work there full-time if reasonable adjustments were in order. I do not know how we can afford to keep such a large group of people out of work just because we have not bothered to think more about this. I am therefore very pleased that a number of measures to promote the employment of people with disabilities are now being planned and under way in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. I hope that in this context, this matter of reasonable adjustments will also be put in order once and for all. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u223	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. The debate begins, and Mr Marttine will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u224	Madam President! We have been waiting for the government to decide on a local agreement for almost two years. So far, instead of decisions, the government has only moved the matter forward. At the same time, however, the need to reform our rigid labour market has been growing. Local agreement is in practice in the interests of the members of the union at the moment. In other words, an employer who is not organised and therefore does not belong to an association of employers must not, under the law, apply local agreements. The bans on agreement place the majority, i.e. more than 70,000 employers, at a disadvantage with organised employers. This can no longer be possible in Finland in the 2020s. The Coalition Party wants to put companies on an equal footing. We have submitted a joint legislative initiative by the Parliamentary Group, which will significantly increase the possibilities for local agreement. The bill removes more than 50 prohibitions on local agreement from the law. It is not only a question of equal opportunities for businesses but also of employment. The smaller the company, the greater the need for springs. Small and medium-sized enterprises must be brought under the same contractual freedoms as larger companies. There is a great need for local reconciliation. According to the Entrepreneurship Gallup, up to six out of ten SMEs would be more employable if the possibilities for local agreement were wider. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, the employment impact of local reconciliation is as high as 15,000 jobs. The government has set a high employment target, but the measures taken have remained modest. Dear government, why is it not good enough for you to make a local deal? I would like to thank most warmly all the Members of Parliament who have signed this bill. It is great that many people in this Chamber want to promote genuine entrepreneurship and business equality in Finland. However, I am surprised at the activities of the two left-wing government aid parties, the RKP and the Centre. At least the RKP is trying to profile itself as a bourgeois party, but no representative of the RKP has supported this initiative. The centre speaks beautifully of local agreement, but the actions are not reflected in government politics. Only one representative of the city centre has signed this bill. I would like to express my warm thanks to you, Congressman. To Könttä for this good cooperation. Mr President! According to the World Economic Forum, Finland’s labour market is one of the most rigid in the world. The rigid labour market puts people out of work. In addition, entrepreneurs have the opportunity to offer work to fewer people. Is it really right that local reconciliation is in practice only for the benefit of the minority? I don't think so. The situation is particularly affected by smaller companies. This is out of the employment growth that Finland is sorely in need of now. Local agreement must be made possible for all companies on an equal footing. A study commissioned by the National Council for Youth also shows the young people’s desire for flexibility. According to a recent report, more than half of young people want to increase local agreement on working conditions and wages. This is a strong message for Finnish decision-makers. Take this bill in the government and make it possible to make local agreements in Finland. Bring companies into an equal position and create better conditions for them to employ more and more Finns. These reforms will be carried out jointly across government-opposition boundaries. We are prepared to offer the hand of cooperation, and we support you in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u225	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u226	Madam President! Mr Marttinen gave a very good presentation of this delegation's initiative to promote local reconciliation, and Mr Marttinen also very well concluded his speech that we want this to be an issue that unites all parties, which goes beyond the government's opposition border, because it is obvious that the work will continue to have prosperity and the success of this country to be built. When we know that promoting local reconciliation will provide jobs, jobs and, as a result, livelihood in this country, why not work together here? As Mr Marttinen said in his own good speech, six out of ten questionnaires addressed to the members of Finnish Entrepreneurs indicate that they could employ more people if such local agreements and the flexibility of the labour market in general were more possible, and I am quite sure that we would then have, well, at least 15,000 new jobs. It is the attitude that counts, and it is now necessary for decision-makers to have an attitude that we want to create conditions for entrepreneurship. Finland is a long and fine country. This country is full of opportunities, as we take them together now. In this respect, Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Martti for his very active contribution to this issue and for the initiative to collect names. It is really great that it has received support across party boundaries, and this is the kind of toolbox in the government that already enjoys broad support in this Parliament for how employment can be improved, so hopefully the government will now actively seize this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u227	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u228	Madam President! In short, I would like to continue on this subject: Indeed, we have been waiting a very long time for the government's policies on this matter. After all, this started from the fact that, although this matter has been included in the government programme itself — although I do not agree with the content of the record, but it has been identified in the government programme of this government — it has now appeared that this matter has been transferred to the labour market organisations, which have not come to fruition, and in the last budget debate it has been hit hard, and at the moment it is back in the working group preparation. Of course, it's pretty amazing that two years have passed. In the spring, the government is already going to the mid-term review, the mid-term review, and it is still expected that these more detailed guidelines on how to take the matter forward will be made. Madam Speaker! The content of this bill is very clear. It proposes that certain articles of legislation should be abolished, bringing this legislation into line with all employers' undertakings, and in this respect local agreement will be implemented in a genuine and equal way and not again through this collective agreement lock, which is referred to in the Government Programme. Perhaps briefly, I will conclude by saying that this bill has signatures not only by the parliamentary group as a whole but also, if I remember it, by all but all Christian Democrats, a lot of representatives of the peoples of Finland and individual representatives of the political parties in the government. I also think this shows that there is a very strong consensus in this Chamber and a united vision of how our labour market could be reformed in a sustainable and sensible way so that, firstly, it would increase equality and, at the same time, it would encourage companies to recruit more people and also give entrepreneurs better opportunities to ensure that they can continue to employ. However, this is a relatively easy step to take through the government, and we believe and hope that the government will take up our proposal and that we will then hear the results later in the spring on this point. However, yes, Madam President, this government has set itself quite hard employment targets and now they have roughly reached a quarter of what they are trying to achieve. Here is another strong measure of employment that is thus being served to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u229	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. The conversation is about to begin. Congressman Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u230	Madam President! One in five Finns has been looking for savings in treatment, medical services or even medicines. At the beginning of the year, a lot of people have a lot of money on their hands. At the beginning of the year, payments want to accumulate, and so does the accumulation of ceilings. Collect pharmaceutical, travel and service charges, all of these separately, all of these ceilings separately. This could be changed. It could make it easier for people who use these services a lot to combine these caps. The bill I made is the law on combining social welfare and health care services, travel and medical fees ceilings. The caps on service, travel and pharmaceutical fees, i.e. annual provisions, must be combined into a single ceiling on charges. The common ceiling for a 12-month period shall be linked to the level of the guarantee pension, which in 2020 shall be EUR 835. However, since the cap is considerably lower than the cap on medical or healthcare payments, separate caps should be maintained and monitored separately as well. Once the customer has reached the ceiling, the ceiling would be valid for a period of 12 months. Kela should monitor the payment ceilings centrally. The customer must be informed of the fulfilment of the ceiling and Kela must ensure that the beneficiary always receives the benefits due to him automatically. Non-payment means the sum which a person pays for a maximum of one calendar year for health care fees, responsibilities for medicines or his or her treatment trips. In 2020 the ceiling for municipal health care customer fees will be EUR 683, the annual allowance for medicines will be EUR 577.66 and the annual allowance for medical or hospital trips will be EUR 300. All caps run separately, so a lot of people can receive a total of up to EUR 1560.66 as early as January. According to the organizations, this is also reflected in the enforcement. According to SOSTE’s report, nearly 400000 social and health services were paid for the enforcement in 2018, and the amount is on the increase. One in five Finns has indeed saved money from medicines, medical services or treatment. Many long-term ill people are forced to rely on income support in the first months of the year. Income support granted to Kela’s health care expenses is allocated especially to medical expenses. In October 2019, 65,000 households received basic income support for health care expenditure and 50,000 of these for medical costs, 4100 for dental care, 3100 for medical clinic fees and 1,300 for inpatient care fees and 670 for healthcare travel costs. This information is from Kela. According to Kela's statistics in 2018, 3 million people received reimbursements for medicines, of which 2,54000 filled the drug ceiling. There is no uniform data for municipal health care, as the data are collected by municipalities themselves. The caps on service, travel and pharmaceutical fees, i.e. annual provisions, must be combined into a single ceiling on charges. The cost of sickness must not be an obstacle to treatment or care for anyone. The common ceiling for a 12-month period shall be linked to the level of the guarantee pension, which in 2020 shall be EUR 835. A reduction in the total fee burden resulting from separate payment ceilings would be necessary and justified from the perspective of older and low-income customers. However, since the travel ceiling is considerably lower than the financial ceiling for medical or health care, separate ceilings should be maintained, and they should always be monitored separately in the future. Some people may exceed the travel ceiling but not the medicinal roof — for such persons, the combination of all roofs would increase their responsibilities to almost threefold if the combined roof were equal to the guaranteed pension. The customer’s ceiling should be valid for a period of 12 months. At present, the cap is collected and valid for a calendar year from 1 January to 31 December, irrespective of the time during which the ceiling is to be reached. The customer's ceiling may be reached at the end of the year and the new accumulation period will start immediately from the beginning of the following year. Those who use a lot of services are not on an equal footing. Kela should monitor the payment ceilings, as Kela already has information on all Finns. Kela is currently following the medical and travel ceilings. For the roof of a medicinal product Kela receives the information in full time directly from pharmacies. For the travel ceiling, the customer submits the application to Kela. The collection of health care customer fees is monitored by the municipality after the customer has supplied the accumulation data to the municipality. So it's kind of complicated. A functional and real-time electronic system is a prerequisite for a uniform ceiling, which ensures the flow of information between, among other things, Kela, municipalities, joint municipal authorities and private service providers. This could be the solution for extending the features of the municipal benefit service Kelmu so that municipalities, joint municipal authorities and private service providers will be able to access real-time information about the customer charges of health care directly into this system. Currently, pharmacies transfer information about purchases affecting the pharmaceutical cap in real time via Kela's direct compensation system — could this system be extended to other caps? If the appropriate system cannot be extended to this use, Kela must acquire a new system for this purpose. The customer shall be informed of the fulfilment of the ceiling. The current situation is that the annual liability for medicines, i.e. the cap on medicines, is €577.66 per year. The annual liability for medicinal products is the annual ceiling on the costs of medicines to be reimbursed, after which additional compensation is granted. For the remainder of the year, after the annual provision has been exceeded, each replacement product shall be paid the EUR 2.50 own contribution. The accumulation of own funds is followed by the Social Insurance Institution. The health care ceiling is 683 euros. Fees charged for services used by persons under 18 years of age shall be added to the fees of their guardians. When the ceiling is exceeded, the services are free of charge for all persons whose payments have accumulated the ceiling together. Municipalities also use ceilings. The travel ceiling is 300 euros per year. The travel ceiling includes individual travel allowances, up to EUR 25 per trip, and trips by own car or public transport. The accumulation of the roof is followed by the customer himself, and he will report it to the Social Insurance Institution. In this respect, I would suggest and the draft law contains a combination of these ceilings. Combining the ceilings really helps people who have a lot of healthcare spending.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u231	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u232	Madam President! Mr Reijonen has taken a good and thorough initiative. It is truly admirable that Mr Reijose has a strong commitment that he wants to be on the behalf of a small person. That is certainly what we all want to be in this Chamber. And it is very important that, with good initiatives and understanding people's everyday lives, we are able to strengthen confidence in the work that is being done here in the country's decision-making process, so in this respect Mr Reijo must in particular be commended for the good activity. It is interesting whether, at this stage, some estimates of whether this will have cost implications from the perspective of the central government might already be available. Certainly, from a human point of view at least, this is a clear and good improvement. But in order to make these human improvements, of course, we need to balance the state's finances, because only on the basis of strong public finances can we build such well-founded transfers, make such structural improvements, above all so that we can keep the services of the Finns healthy. Strong public finances are based on strong employment and, in this respect, all the good objectives we have discussed together this evening are based on the strong basis that we have work and livelihoods, that new investments will be made in Finland. In this sense, the government should now be hastily introducing the measures proposed by the Assembly for the whole of last year that, in this difficult pandemic situation in which we are living, means should be put in place to create the conditions for creating new jobs through business, so that these important improvements to everyday life, whether they are those proposed by Mr Reijonen or other improvements to the benefit system, which have been hoped for and proposed this evening in plenary, we will not be able to drown future generations of debt which, unfortunately, is now being threatened by the government of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u233	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Now, Mr Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u234	Madam President! It is important that the economies receive water. My bill concerns the amendment of the Land Use and Construction Act. Without proper domestic water, you can't handle it. Municipalities and cities have their own water supply facilities. However, municipal water systems do not make networks everywhere. That's when water co-operatives come into the picture. Water cooperatives often operate in rural and sparsely populated areas and supply water to detached houses. Water cooperatives play an important role in the organisation of water and sanitation, but at the same time there is a message and problems arise. Municipalities and water cooperatives cooperate: the municipality finances cooperatives, the cooperative builds networks. But there's one big but there's one big one in the control of the operation of the water cooperatives. It is very strange that there is little control over the construction of networks. No one wants to take responsibility for it: not take the municipality, not take the avi, not even the ely. When there is no supervision, problems easily arise. In general, the location of networks and pipeline networks can be found by agreeing with the landowner. Consultation with residents is important, as is proper planning, agreement on compensation and consideration for landowners. If the water cooperative and landowner are unable to reach an agreement on the location of the pipeline, the municipality may, through the board, authorise landowner countries to use the pipeline veto, i.e. the municipality to introduce coercive measures. However, the municipality should take responsibility for controlling the whole, now it does not exist. If problems occur, the municipal citizen is left quite alone. There may be problems in complying with the agreement, in compensation or in other matters. Everywhere it is stated that water cooperatives are independent operators, so in the municipality, so in the ely, so open. But a cooperative can't do exactly what it wants to do without listening to residents. When there is no control, situations may arise that unnecessarily slow down access to water for those economies that sorely need it. When the municipality leaves for coercive measures, the whole should be reviewed. You know, it's kind of silly to pull a pipe in here one little bit at a time. Agreements with landowners may be lacking, there may be problems with compensation. Some landowners can even apply for a burden through the municipality and others may not, even though there are no precise plans for the location of the network. Forced permits may have been applied for in a completely different place for the residents, even if the routes have already been agreed on in a different place, and even without informing the landowner. When the pipelines are decided, the municipality should carry out an overall assessment and review. Decisions must be reasonable, reasonable and equitable. The municipality must ensure that the instructions are up-to-date and fair. Access to domestic water is important and unnecessary delays are avoided when matters are taken into account. It can't be that you don't listen to the landowner. Sometimes it seems that the municipality may act as an errand boy for water cooperatives. Although some cooperatives work very well, not all of them work optimally. This is precisely why supervision is important, and the municipality must carefully consider and review the whole before forced deliveries are made to landowners' countries. So my bill suggests that the municipality takes more overall responsibility. This avoids unnecessary problems and unnecessary delays in water supply to the economies that really need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u235	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u236	Madam President! Mr Reijonen is, of course, on a very important issue. Water is the elixir of life; it is said that water is the oldest of the butterdoers. Each of our everyday life revolves around water in one way or another, and in this sense the fact that the household water is supplied both securely and at reasonable cost is, of course, quite a and o for the smooth running of everyday life. Just as Mr Reijonen described, of course there are various forms of distribution of clean water in different places around the country. Indeed, not all households get it directly from municipal water supply, and this can indeed cause these situations described by Mr Reijos. I read this bill by Mr Reijose and wondered whether the proposal would replace this Article 161 of the current Land Use and Building Law. The new paragraph, described in this bill, does not mention any compensation to the landowner in Mr Reijosen's proposal. I think it is in itself a good idea that the municipalities are strongly coordinating the rational implementation of water management as a whole, but in a situation where we go to the countries of the private landowner, the private landowner must always have the right to compensation. This is certainly something which, even more broadly, now that the Land Use and Building Law is being reformed, must, of course, be at the heart of the review. The right of ownership on a wider scale is such a responsible market economy, which Finland is, a fundamental principle and the cornerstone of our economic system, and it should not be undermined. That is why, when, for a very compelling general reason, such community-based structures are placed in the country of a private landowner for example, it is, of course, a compensation. I looked at Finlex in this section, and in the current piece of legislation, that is, this replacement item is available, and perhaps I should like to ask Mr Reijos for further clarification.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u237	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-04-ps-3.u238	Madam President! Yes, compensation is very important. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has made a number of guidelines on this, and how these can be replaced. Then, if we go into the situation of applying for it as a burden for a landowner, then there is also a basis for it, although the compensation amounts are quite small. We usually get an agreement with landowners, and many people let them lie down for free, but compensation is important. There's definitely a difference. It depends a little on how things are done, and that is why I think it is so important that the landowners agree in writing. The oral agreements do not always appear to be true, which means that it is terribly important in writing to agree on these matters even before any action is taken. And this same compensation case would actually involve a lot of other things, even if it was like snowmobile routes. Even if snowmobiles are pursued in a career, which is an informal route, landowners can start asking for rent when the land is used, but then if we go to this official case, i.e. officialising the routes that become a public route in a way, the compensation is very small, but the burden is eternal: it cannot be built there, it prevents construction, it prevents movement itself, it prevents the sale of land for construction purposes. It's awfully restrictive, but the compensation is ridiculously small after all. In Finland, however, the protection of private property should be more comprehensive.
