ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u1	The third item in the order of business is the election of the Nordic Council delegation in Finland. I would like to say that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects the representatives listed in the list of members and alternates distributed to the representatives. Delegation members will be informed that the delegation will meet on Wednesday 10 February 2021 at 13.45 p.m. in room A116 for organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Research Institute for International Relations and European Union Affairs
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u3	The 5th item on the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of government policy in 2021 and the main proposals to Parliament. Following the presentation by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, one round of group talks will take place with a maximum of 5 minutes. After group talks, a 1.5-hour debut will follow, divided into two 45-minute sections so that the groups can exchange debators halfway through the debators. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. The opening conversation is scheduled for 2.5 hours. Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u4	Mr President, ärade talman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! We will begin the work in the 2021 Parliament after an exceptional year. Until a year ago, we did not know how many ways a global pandemic would change the environment we know and bring uncertainty to our everyday lives. Koronapandemia also changed the policy agenda. Last year we met nine times in parliamentary information on the interest rate situation. With the support of all parliamentary groups, the Emergency Act was introduced. Overall, 86 government proposals and seven amending budgets related to the management of the acute crisis were submitted to Parliament. Mr President! We're still in the middle of a crisis. The Government’s objective has been and is still to prevent the spread of the virus in society, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people particularly at risk. At the same time, we have sought to secure people's livelihoods, the survival of businesses and the preservation of jobs. On this path we will continue this spring. In these parliamentary days, the Government will bring to the House proposals for the continuation of cost support, labour market support for entrepreneurs, an increase in the unemployment protection component and other unemployment security exceptions. Although this period has been exceptionally gloomy, we are already seeing light in front of us. Vaccinations have begun, and we're heading towards the summer. However, there is still a need for each of us to be alert to the limitations and to take into account both his or her own health and safety. Together, we'll survive. Mr President! In the midst of the corona crisis, too, we have been determined to promote the reforms agreed together in the Government Programme. During the spring session, the Government is expected to submit 147 proposals to Parliament, and the preliminary plan for autumn contains 94 proposals. Reports will be given this year 18. These are all steps towards a socially, economically and environmentally sustainable welfare society. We're in the middle of a journey, but we're on the right path. Mr President! During the corona crisis, the state has supported people and businesses through a number of means, and exceptional instruments have also been put in place. Action has been necessary. Without them, employment and people's livelihood would have deteriorated much more than has been realised and it would be more difficult to catch up with growth after the crisis. It would be a mistake to put an end to fiscal policies that support growth, employment and people too early. Exceptional measures must also be made available for as long as the disease situation and the economic situation so require. The future development of the Finnish economy is largely determined by how companies operating here cope with the crisis and in what condition they face the post-pandemic world. Strong and competitive companies are also a prerequisite for a high level of employment. That is why everything needs to be done now to ensure that our production capacity is hit when demand recovers. This means in particular investment in human capital, green transition, research and innovation, and digital and transport infrastructure. The Government is committed to securing a stable, supportive and predictable business environment, as well as a business environment and predictability of taxation, enabling investment and job creation. Mr President! The long-term challenges of public finances have not disappeared as a result of the crisis. The change in the age structure and the excessively low employment rate require solutions. In line with its programme, the government has already taken decisions on measures that raise employment in structural terms by more than 30,000 people. This year, the government will bring to Parliament a number of legislative proposals that will strengthen employment, which we have previously outlined. These include presentations on the Nordic labour service model, reform of pay support and recruitment trials, and the acceleration of immigration of foreign experts. We will also be deciding on new measures to strengthen employment this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u7	Mr President, ärade talman! Our lives are still marked by a nasty corona. As a nation, we have survived the crisis relatively well: our disease situation is still the fourth best in Europe. It is therefore necessary to acknowledge both the Marin Government and the citizens. This battle will be won together. Transformation viruses pose risks, but unquestionably light is visible. It is estimated that at the end of April two million Finns have received a corona vaccine.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u8	Mr President! The policy pursued in recent decades has taken Finland in the wrong direction. The feet of a bubbling EU federal state have learned to live as a debt. According to a recent report from the Ministry of Finance, Finland is lagging behind the other Nordic countries in the economy. In Finland, it is estimated that public debt will continue to grow even after the corona crisis, while public finances in many control countries will improve. The salvation of Finland's national economy has been sought for immigration. Finland’s immigration policy, however, is not based on highly trained experts. It is based on the attraction of uneducated and languageless developing countries with different attraction factors. The concept of Finland as a global social welfare office and benefactor has completely failed, but the Green Left and its aid parties continue on the path that destroys the Finnish nation state for ideological reasons. A new fad is the exaggerated hope that a huge new export market will be created in Finland under the guise of climate change. However, the truth is that this new market will also be highly competitive internationally and exports of Finnish technology products will require greater competitiveness. True Finns see the urgent need to improve Finland’s economic growth by increasing competitiveness and by highlighting domesticity. The Finns believe that the municipal elections of the spring are also largely about which parties put Finland first in their politics. My hometown of Turku was recently ordered to stone the surface of the square from Chinese stone, even though it was also available from native countries. Correspondingly, Chinese electric buses were purchased in the Turku and Helsinki region, while the Finnish bus factory stopped production in Lahti. Unfortunately, Finland is full of these examples. The prospects for the future will improve considerably as we put Finland first and start investing in domesticism. Mr President! The confidence of Finns in the future must be maintained in these difficult times. Continued indebtedness and raising the cost of basic needs do not give rise to faith in a bright future. People must now be encouraged to work and entrepreneurship. The results of your work must enable you to obtain a decent dwelling and a vehicle without having to live in constant uncertainty and fear of what taxes and charges the green left will come up with next. The increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel that came into force last August was more severe than ever in this millennium. Increasing taxation is hampering our industrial competitiveness. Increasing logistics costs drive production away from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to interrupt Mr Tavio's group speech, but I would like to say that we in the Council of Presidents have stated, on the recommendation of occupational health care, that the mask is also spoken from this platform. — — — — Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u12	Mr President! Thus, at the beginning of the new year, there are both optimism and great concerns. The United States is returning to international tables and diplomacy. A return to the Paris climate agreement and to both the WTO and the UN is a good thing for the whole world. At the same time, our neighbour, Russia, is slipping deeper into authoritarianism and the anti-human rights path. In Finland, we believe in vaccines, but they are still slow to get into the country. The restrictions are tiresome, but compliance with them is still necessary to combat the virus. The fight against the Korona virus will continue to be a common task for all of us. In the current spring, there will be two particularly important elements. The first is saving Finnish welfare after the interest rate. Those who want to keep the structures of the welfare society unchanged are breaking it down. [Left: You are against them!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u25	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u26	Mr President! ‘Standard’, ‘Standardising’—Standard words,institutions. Finland’s contemporary jam is serious. The outlook for the future is getting serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u40	Congressman Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u41	Mr President, ärade talman! If someone had told me what would happen during the year last February, few of us would have believed. Despite the warnings, we did not expect this. We put on the masks. We've distanced ourselves. We stopped hugging. Suddenly, we changed our whole lives to keep each other safe. Mr President, ärade talman! There is also something beautiful about it that, in the midst of a global crisis, we Finns went into the forest. The nearby forests and nature trails have become places to meet friends, neighbors, grandparents. In front of a stranger, the woods gave us a safe haven. It seems right that in this very moment we are protecting more forests, music and birdwaters than ever before. At the same time, we have become increasingly aware that things have to change. We are beginning to see the consequences of our unsustainable way of life. After the interest, the world will not be the same. We decide how to rebuild it. The unsustainable economy must be reformed into green. Nature and climate must define the limits of the policy that has been taken. The climate crisis will not be combated by a single decision. Future investments, new subsidies and standards must be climate action. In the middle of spring we will go through how far we have reached the path towards carbon-neutral Finland, and we will make sure that still missing steps are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u42	Madam President! The shadow of the recession of the 1990s is long. It is so long that there are still many children and young people under the shadow of the depression. Almost 20 years later, the recession is still reflected in mental health problems, unemployment and partiality. Many of those who have been bankrupt at the time are still burdened with debts. In the 1990s, Finland failed to manage the recession as it should have. This crisis, which is now at hand, is once again threatening an entire generation of people with depression, unemployment and exclusion. Together in this Chamber this spring we have to do things better. Madam President! We Finns, all together, have so far achieved better health and economic success than most of the countries in the world. Yet we have suffered a great deal. Many have lost their jobs, temporarily or more permanently. Entrepreneurs and employees have been in trouble. The cultural and event sectors and services sectors have been hit particularly hard by restrictive measures. Interest has also been class-linked. For some, jobs and wages have continued normally, only the home has turned into an office. At the same time, others have continued to travel by mass transport to work and have been exposed to the virus while working face to face with people: nurses and other hospital and nursing staff, shop cashiers, carers, teachers, construction workers — to name a few. On the other hand, the third have had to pick up food from the bread lines when the work has stopped like a wall. Madam President! While vaccination against corona is being given this spring, we need to look for antidotes to school dropout, mental health problems and exclusion. It is clear that the concerns of children and young people in particular have increased as a result of the interest rate. Surveys show that in families with low incomes in particular, sorrows have grown. For us adults, a month or two is not a long time in the end. For children and young people, it's an eternity. Control measures against children can be very serious in terms of their health and social consequences. Restrictive measures are needed, but they should be directed above all at us adults, so that the lives of children and young people need to be limited as little as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u45	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u46	Ärade talman, Mr President! Trivialization and characterisation is easy, as is compartmentalization of people and groups of people. We close our eyes and appeal to prejudice and preconceptions. That is familiar to all of us in politics. And even though we know too well where it leads, we are not always able to resist temptation. But blinding the facts, or reality, does not move forward. It leads to non-essential and secondary measures instead of real and concrete measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u47	Madam President, the värderade talman! Despite the interest-rate crisis, Parliament and the government must be able to take many important decisions this year, whose impact will be visible far into the future. Finland has survived the corona well so far. Although every death is a tragedy, Finland’s mortality rates have remained low compared to many other countries. A big thank you to the Finns who have acted with great responsibility. Companies and communities have also taken up their responsibilities. The Finnish Government also owes thanks, and even though mistakes have occurred, the difficult situation has remained somewhat under control. In the management of interest rates, the clearest criticism is that the government has constantly sought to avoid responsibility. Responsibility for decisions and mistakes made has been triggered when other ministers, when civil servants and when Parliament is shouldered. A record high rate of debt is justified by interest rates, even though money has been spent on many projects that have very little to do with the interest rate. We would like to remind you that the government is responsible for all the actions and the Prime Minister is responsible for all the actions of the government. In a situation like this, leadership is needed. Proper management would not have had seen the kind of continuance with the necessary legislation and vaccine strategies would have been prepared well before the situation was in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u48	Mr President! The confrontation that permeates the whole world will be an unparalleled taste of the present spring days. Never before in our peace have we been so divided between right and left, i.e. between right and wrong. At the same time, when the wasteful left is making decisions about our cause and the outrageous use of the unstable situation, it is completely incomprehensible how the opposition has proved to be unsucking — to bow down on the feet of the left-wing media and with silence to accept the government's absurd exceptional measures to discipline businesses and citizens and even to kill business. [Heckling] Ladies and gentlemen, the people should have power. That's why we've been chosen here. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, because of your weakness, the media has taken over. You will kneel before it, and you will fear that it will be discredited. Pressed by the media, you even cover your face with the political symbols of the Chinese. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u51	We're going to continue the debate. Next up, Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u52	Mr President! It must be said from the outset that many of us certainly know or know someone at risk about this corona, and that we all wear masks and care for hygiene is caring about the health of them, all of us close to them. I believe that the whole of this message will hopefully want to be passed on almost unanimously. Mr President! It is important now, as the Prime Minister said, that economic policy is focused on supporting growth and employment, so that there will be no lost years, and here this support for municipalities is absolutely essential. Those who, at the same time, criticise debt here are actually challenging the economic policy that the government has adopted. I would now remind you that these municipal support packages have actually prevented cuts to services and have also prevented increases in income tax. I would have asked the Minister for Finance: how do you estimate if the municipalities had started such a wave of tax increases,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u53	Congressman Halla-aho. - I have to open the microphone myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u54	Madam President! The year 20 was difficult for Finns, but politically easy for the government. This was an excuse to postpone all decisions on public finances, employment and other chronic problems to the future. The loan has been open, and there has been unlimited money to be distributed. We can't afford another year like that. Problems cannot be avoided with the argument that the management of the corona is the best economic policy. The conditions for entrepreneurship and work must be created by reducing the excessive tax burden and costs of Finns. This can only be achieved by reducing and prioritising the expenditure side: not billions of dollars for southern Europe, development aid or financing harmful immigration. Unfortunately, the red-green government's priority list is still in the corona era.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u55	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u56	Mr President! If unemployment was around 4 per cent in the early 80s, it was more than twice that in the last five years. The number of job vacancies has been the same. This means structural unemployment, which is the curse of Finland. This description can be found, inter alia, in the recent report of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council. Mr President! Is this not the main cause of poverty in Finland? 100,000 people could get to work. Structural unemployment is also highlighted by yesterday’s official assessment by the Ministry of Finance: ‘It is possible to reduce labour market encountering problems by increasing the incentives to take up employment and labour-regional and occupational mobility’. Mr Vanhanen, do you agree with your ministry's assessment of medicines, including hairy ones? Our aim is certainly a common one, saving the welfare state from a dead end, but can it be imposed by taxpayers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u57	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u58	Madam Speaker! The center’s gaze is largely after the corona — it might be said that at dawn, when the corona dawns there. Finland must rise from the ruins of the corona, not only to the economic upturn, but also to the social and human uprising. You have to take care of the integrity of society. You have to keep everything involved. In this spirit, there is also a need for cross-border cooperation, such as cooperation between bourgeois parties and left-wing parties, which is represented, for example, by this successful red soil regime today. [Laughter from the Right] President! Many families and many entrepreneurs have sleepless nights because of debt problems. The Centre considers it very important that we reform bankruptcy law and enforcement to make it more humane for people to start again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u59	And let me remind you again of this minute. — — — — Next up, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u60	Madam President! The government's self-ordered Ministry of Finance report contains a lot of hard reading. Indeed, Finland is falling from other Nordic countries and control countries in terms of GDP growth, employment rates and labour productivity. These are all figures that give us weak prospects. As such, the necessary increase in the number of carers and the ideological increase in compulsory education are examples of how the government is dumping permanent public expenditure into the hands of future municipal decision-makers: under-financing these reforms and failing to meet the central government's share. Mr President! How is the government now going to react to this report by the Ministry of Finance? Are you taking those procedures seriously? Is the Prime Minister going to follow these opening proposals as to what emerges from that report? These problems are in Finnish society
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u61	Congressman Kari, Emma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u62	Mr President! I would like to thank all the constructive speeches that have been made in this Chamber — and all of you who take this situation seriously. The message out of this Chamber is clearly that we are all shouldering our responsibilities together and we are taking care of each other. This isn't about a joke. This is about safeguarding the lives and lives of Finnish people. Together, as the Prime Minister has well said, we will get through this. At the same time, it is also good to consider how to move forward from this acute crisis. At the moment it seems clear that it is those countries that are able to cope with the courage to invest in clean investments and high levels of knowledge. At the same time, those countries that are able to maintain their support networks and take care of their people will be able to cope. These are the things that this government will take care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u63	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u64	Madam President! In their group speech, the Finns demand both tax reductions and a reduction in debt, without at the same time mentioning a single cutting target for the services they are presenting. They have a magic wall where they share tax cuts. Madam President! The Coalition Party is much more honest. The Coalition Party said it was cutting unemployment benefit. The Coalition Party said that it wanted income support for housing. Its result is the lengthening of bread lines. The Coalition Party wants people on bread lines. [Call for Intermission—TimoHeinonen-Call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u65	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u66	Irade the Talman! Of course, structural unemployment issues must be tackled in the economic cycle as if they were in the economic cycle. It's never the wrong time to grab them. Eva made a report on the employment of immigrant women, which was recently published here, and it noted, among other things, that immigrant women are simply very poorly employed in Finland. The same citizenship is much less employmentable here than in Sweden. For example, in the case of Russian women, the difference is 20 percentage points, i.e. 50% in favour of Sweden. It's a huge difference. In some way we must tackle this, consider the structural issue in our society, which leads to workers and jobs not finding each other. Another issue that was also actualised here before the turn of the year is the availability of foreign labour in Finland. There was a case where a foreign expert, a startup entrepreneur, did not receive a residence permit in Finland, was not allowed to work here...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u67	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u68	Mr President! First of all, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how you react and respond to the serious concerns of the Ministry of Finance officials and the Economic Policy Evaluation Council about the future of the Finnish welfare society. But my second point concerns the issue of social security. I had to shorten the treatment lines and make sure the money was good enough. Now it looks like neither one of us is going to happen. They're taking the money and the power out of the city. There will be no large-scale provinces, but there will be an administrative structure controlled by the Ministry. At the same time, if you think about the field, the medical staff is working under extreme pressure at the moment. We have a medical debt that needs to be discharged, and at the same time they should be able to prepare for the transition to a new social model. Is it not time to take a time-out, to whistle out this treatment of the social model, to withdraw it, to correct errors, to take a fresh start and after this corona-induced sickness debt has been taken care of, to come back to the matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u69	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u70	Madam President! I must say, Prime Minister, you make a carbon-neutral welfare society sound very easy and simple,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u73	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u74	Madam President! Over the course of this year, we have seen in real detail how health and the economy are closely intertwined. Of course, it has been familiar in the past, but now it has come up in a tangible way. We know that if the economy is managed well, then we can afford good health care, but we also have the other way around: when we look after health, we have an enthusiastic, workable workforce, we live for a long time, there is activity in society. It is not a political slogan or an election to talk about a treatment guarantee. It is the view of experts on how to build health care in developed countries so that primary health care is the cornerstone on which the rest of the health care system is built. In recent weeks, there have often been two countries that are the few that are more effective than Finland in health care: Israel and Singapore. Both
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u75	Congressman Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u76	Mr President! As regards accelerating growth, the problem is that, at the same time, the problems of the structures of the Finnish economy and the demographic problems already bring the debt mountain and it should be possible to accelerate growth without accelerating indebtedness at the same time. That is the core message of this report by the Ministry of Finance, for which the Coalition Party has presented a model which is based on the very same means and measures as the Ministry of Finance. Yesterday we heard an interview with the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, on television, in which these views were broadly shared by the Ministry of Finance. But now the Prime Minister's Party, the SDP, has become a message that in fact debt and a stronger role for the state and business would be a better option. Even Professor Mazzucato was asked to witness this line. These are the opposite of those of the Ministry of Finance. Prime Minister, do you share your Vice-President Mäkyse's thinking here, or are you?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u77	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u78	Madam President! As I said earlier, sufficient economic growth is absolutely absolute... [ The speaker will start speaking when the microphone is closed]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u81	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u82	Mr President! Finland has managed its economy well, and in thanks to the taxpayers, the government then wants these well-managed tax resources to be distributed to southern Europe, such as Italy and Spain, during this parliamentary term. Now, after all, we are discussing the main policy measures of the government in 21 C.E. One key fact is that you export the sweaty tax resources of the Finns to Italy and Spain and Greece for billions of dollars. You do not want to go through this in this Parliament in the debate whether this is right or not. Employment is everything a and o in the sense of how the Finnish economy rises or falls. However, those are the decisions you are not prepared to make. Now you are postponing, the government, those decisions over municipal elections, because you do not want to bring out to the public the fact that we also have to make painful decisions. Could you tell me, Prime Minister, what will you decide?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u83	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u87	Excuse me, Congressman, time! I really mean it when I say "time". Let's hold on to that minute and we'll get more people to take the floor. — Mr Heinonen will now give an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u88	Madam President! Finland is lagging behind other Nordic countries in terms of economic growth. Mr Government, officials from your own Ministry of Finance are once again concerned about your actions. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u89	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u90	Madam Speaker! As I said in my previous speech, we have a great historical tradition in Finland that we have worked together in government across the traditional right-wing line. There have been red soil governments, center and social democrats, as well as purple governments, coalitions and social democrats. The results of the Red Mults have only been significantly better. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u96	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u100	Congressman Mäkynen, Matias.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u101	Mr President! The Ministry of Finance points out very well that in the 2010s Finland's productivity, employment and growth performance have not kept up with the other Nordic countries. The whole 2010s Coalition Party led Finland, and here is the result. However, Finland’s relative position has now improved during the corona crisis, thanks to the successful health situation and the management of the economic situation. Now we have to take advantage of this situation. We must ensure that we do not cut the conditions for growth with poor economic policy. We have world leaders in health, energy and clean technology. By cooperating in these areas between businesses, industry and the public sector, we will be able to improve productivity and employment. The public sector and the private sector are not against each other, Mr Häkkänen. They support each other, particularly in the areas of research, product development and education. Now that the coalition is in the opposition, we will finally be able to improve education and research again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u102	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u103	Madam President! Finland has a habit of imitating other Nordic countries with a delay of about ten years. It is very frustrating to see that Finland repeats the mistakes made by others even when they have already been identified as errors elsewhere. The Danish Social Democratic Prime Minister set the goal of having zero asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u104	We now have three ministerial statements: the Prime Minister, 2 minutes, and the Minister for Finance and Minister Haatainen, 2 minutes. — And the Prime Minister will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u105	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the groups for their group contributions and for a good and constructive debate. Although we certainly also disagree on many issues, there is clearly a common concern about the future of Finland. Well, what has this corona crisis taught us? Certainly a lot, but I would like to raise two points which I think we should learn from this crisis: Firstly, we should learn that we need cooperation to overcome global challenges. Turning inwards and curling up does not help; we have common challenges, and we have to look for answers to them — it is pandemics, or it is about solving climate change, for example. Another lesson that we need to learn from and recognise is that the welfare state and strong confidence in the Nordic welfare state have been a great strength for us during this crisis. It is not appropriate for us to break down the pillars of well-being, to undermine them, for example, to cut income from the poorest people, as the coalition, for example, proposes in terms of self-sufficiency in income support. Mr Halla-aho said that 2020 was politically easy. Well, I can say that I will not sign this view. Last year was very difficult and very challenging for all of us. Not only did we struggle and continue to struggle with a global pandemic, which is extremely challenging both in health and in economic terms, but the government systematically pushed forward its own programme, the reforms that we have agreed together, and has also done the first part of the employment measures that have been sorely called for here, and we will continue along this path. We will also make important decisions this year to improve employment, restructure, create the conditions for growth, and of course we will. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u106	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u107	Mr President! The Ministry of Finance's report explained Finland's differences between the Nordic countries and Germany and the Netherlands. It did not assess the work of the current government, but rather looked at what has been done over the last ten years and, in fact, over the last ten years, where these differences have arisen. It did not provide solutions for what needs to be done, but it did provide perspectives, the differences that exist between these countries. If it is assessed in this way, then the current government has actually taken action on all these measures. Employment decisions have been taken, decisions have been taken to raise the level of skills, increase the focus on research and development in order to improve competitiveness, the Sustainable Growth Programme will seek to boost investment and speed up the migration of labour-related experts, and so on, that is to say, work is under way. This report is a very good addition to the debate so that we can see where the differences between us and the other Nordic countries are. We have the same skills, same societies. We have to do what we did elsewhere. Perhaps at its deepest point that difference is related to demographic trends and the use of labour and the development of the number of workers. They may be the deepest differences that we can see here. But goals must also be clear and ambitious. I noticed that the Coalition Party set the objective that the national production share of public debt should not go higher than 75%, that it is your objective, that it should be turned evenly. I think it is too high, and at least I myself am working for 75% not to go. Do you still think that 75% is the level that should be set, for example, for this year's decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u108	Secretary Haatainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u109	Mr President! Employment measures have been called for here. The government has made progress as decided in the Government Programme. We have already taken decisions on 30,000 additional workers, so we have done as we have planned. The Nordic model of employment services is one of these. The extension of compulsory education is also a major structural reform and solutions have been made for older people. These laws are now being prepared and are in the implementation phase. Employment services are also being exported to regions, local level, and the municipal experiment is beginning in a couple of weeks. New measures, I would like to highlight two of them. Continuous learning: Parliamentary preparations have been made for the reform of continuous learning. Mr Östman called for jobs and skills not to be met, and continuous learning is one of the big, key issues for this, as well as raising compulsory education, investments in education and training that have been made. In addition, a study has just been published today looking for ways to create a Finnish model for the employment of people with part-time and disabilities. We have a lot of potential that we do not see today. Part of it is because these people are also discriminated against when applying for employment. Employment measures are at the heart of the government's economic policy. It's been done and will be done. The 50,000 additional workers will be used differently to fork and seek and to make these decisions in the spending limits bar.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u110	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u111	Mr President! The situation in Finland is challenging. As far as economic growth is concerned, the recent publications of the VM show that we are on our way back badly compared to the other Nordic countries, as has often been said here. Now, during the time of the interest rate, we need some patching up work, but the government should not forget the fact that the structural problems that existed before the crisis have not disappeared anywhere. Unemployment hinders our economy and has a negative impact on the everyday lives of many Finns. In this situation, I cannot stop wondering about the impact of the government's environmental measures on the operating conditions of companies in our country. Kaipola, Naantali, peat rises to the top of the mind. Ladies and gentlemen, are you really going to continue to implement the records of the Government Programme stubbornly, even though there are already warning examples of the consequences, or should we act sensibly and look again at the Government Programme in relation to the record-keeping of businesses? Now we have to give people a chance to believe in the future. Homeliness to glory.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u112	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u116	Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u117	Mr President! One of the key problems in the sustainability of our welfare society is the fact that our working-age population is not growing. We are now making a green recovery, structural reforms such as social welfare reform, and we are also investing in skills in addition to the employment decisions that have already been taken, but it is also difficult to see a new rise in the Finnish economy without increasing the labour force from outside the borders and taking care of the working capacity of the labour force. We simply need to be better able to support the work... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u120	Representative Malm — absent. Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u124	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u125	Madam President! Finns need work and health. The Coalition Party wants to ensure equal health services for everyone in Finland, but the government's social welfare reform [ Intermediate calls from the Centre Group] When this bill, the county war, was in the consultation, 90% of experts said that there are no means of achieving the objectives. Nevertheless, the government trampled on its parliament, and now that it is in parliamentary procedure, a number of experts have put their emergency cry out to the public that it is more important for the parliamentary government parties how quickly the proposal is dealt with, rather than what is the content of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u126	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u127	Mr President! I would like to say to Mrs Halla-aho that last year, in Finland, the number of asylum seekers fell below 1300, which in itself is a good thing: the less we have, the better, and we can better help otherwise. But it did show that the success of us, Finland, does not depend on how many asylum seekers we have. The two most important things of this year are that we get out of this corona discipline — now we have hope as the vaccines progress — and the other is that we need to build a path towards a sustainable economy, public finances, employment and the stabilisation of debt. All the big things of the spring are linked by the theme of whether we create stability or chaos. And let me be clear: the centre is creating stability in Finland, and only through stability will we be able to build this country. As far as policy is concerned, I think we can quote the opening speech by the President-in-Office of the European Parliament: ‘In the most valuable and valuable way that we value others,the better time for legislation’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u128	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u129	Mr President! We often talk here about women's employment, as Mr Adlercreutz did before, and that is a good thing. However, a study of the working conditions of THL found that both the frequency and lay-offs of redundancies are more precarious for men than for women. Before the corona, the unemployment rate for men was 7.2, when it was 6.2 for women. Underemployment is also more common among men. There are now 50,000 more unemployed than a year ago. When we talk beautifully about strengthening employment and declaring gender equality, what concrete steps have you taken? What does the Prime Minister think about this, is there more to be done than hand over hard-to-work to public aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u130	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u131	Mr President! Protecting people's lives, health and well-being is our most important job. This task has been at the heart of the treatment of the corona crisis, but the promotion of health and well-being and the reduction of health inequalities are also at the centre of government policy. Epidemiological compensation for income support recipients, increases in small pensions, reductions in health care payments and more carers in care homes for the elderly, all of this has already been done by the government. At Christmastime, we received a proposal for a social welfare reform in Parliament, which will help to guarantee functional health services for everyone. Passing the law project is our big job in the Parliament in the spring. In addition to Parliament, we expect a bill on a treatment guarantee that would guarantee faster access to treatment in primary health care, both in mental and physical distress. We must ensure access to treatment for all, because protecting people's lives, health and well-being is our most important job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u132	Representative Counterfeit — gone. Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u133	Mr President! In the group speeches on the right side, the chairmen built a rather dark picture of Finland with regard to the future, and I do not think it will do justice to the government or to the Finns, who together are now facing this crisis. There is a need for strong faith in the future and growth and for the future to build the future. We have good tools in the spring coming up, the European Recovery Package and then the government's many soft employment measures, which will now be put in place during the spring. The municipalities have been supported, and if the municipalities had not been so heavily supported, we would have had to go to the pockets of the municipal people and we would not have been able to provide welfare services so well in times of crisis. For that, thank the government, especially. Then, of course, in the long term, this government will also support the municipal economy until 22, which is extremely important in order to maintain the Finnish welfare services beyond this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u134	Like this. — Now we finish this first 45-minute debut round and empty this machine and start a new debut. — I would ask those representatives to stand up and press the V-button to respond to those who wish to speak on this point. This is where Mr Risikko begins the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u135	Mr President! Interest is a serious matter, but we have many other serious issues, even more serious ones. Take, for example, the nausea of children and young people. About 20 percent of children and adolescents have mental health problems, including substance abuse problems, learning difficulties, such neuropsychological problems. What do we have to do? We all have to do what we can to eliminate and prevent them. It means more adults in school, it means tailor-made support in good time, it means that the child’s parents, those guardians, will also receive help. It must be remembered that no one is born a killer, no one is born a bully, and now, if ever, is the time. Now, Minister Saramo, what are you going to do? Do not answer me that the Ministry of Education has just published a report. There are reports that would spread out in the field. It's time to do something.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u136	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u137	Mr President! The interest will be won, but the problems of global warming will remain. That is why it is important that we now come to Parliament with a number of themes related to sustainable development. In addition to economic and ecological sustainability, sustainable development means social and cultural sustainability, and these dimensions have also been well taken into account by the Government. From the point of view of economic sustainability, investment in the green transition and the bioeconomy will strengthen the basis for sustainable growth. Indeed, Finland has the opportunity to be a leader and take the lead in global competition, as we have the best know-how in the world in creating climate-resistant solutions. Now is not the time to brake. We must now press on to find and find climate-friendly solutions, and the EU recovery package will provide a good leverage for these new innovations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u138	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u139	Madam President! I listened here some time ago to the speech by Mr Kurvise, who was very excited about how the centre is now returning to regional policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u142	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u143	Madam President! Although the broad thrust of the centre has, of course, been the fact that we are building a decentralised society throughout history, Mr Juuso's speech is true in so far as it is true that, unfortunately, two such blunders have slipped into that social performance in relation to the Hospital District of Eastern Savo and the Hospital District of West Ostrobothnia, and I hope that the committee will take these issues into account when dealing with it this spring, because this, of course, is also the issue of decentralisation in these regions. But, Mr President, a lot has been said about this report yesterday, which proves that Finland is unfortunately not an economically Nordic country in the sense that we are used to thinking. Much has already been done about this, and the government will certainly continue to do so. Of course, the problem with some of the employment measures is that they are extenuating public finances. They do not strengthen it but they increase it, and this is the question of how we can also create flexibility in the market so that it can be created without taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u144	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u145	Mr President! From this point of view, it is good to continue where Mr Kulmuni decided. This much-speaked Nordic comparison is very central to our debt level of 70% and in Sweden and Denmark it is 40%. There, economic growth is forecast to be half as hard, and that means that they will continue to be able to provide Nordic-level welfare services, but we will not be able to provide if we cannot do the same. This leads to the risk that, as in the 60s and 70s, Finland will be set off in the hope of a better life in the other Nordic countries, except that this time the departures are highly educated and that we will have an even greater difficulty running this system here as we all would like to see this Nordic welfare society working in Finland in the future. So I ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, when you said that the government is doing what is contained in this report: is the measure right now, is it really so ambitious?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u146	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u147	Mr President! The government's line is that, in this situation, it is now important to support the economy so that we do not lose years and, at the same time, to carry out reforms specifically aimed at strengthening the level of competence. It is good that there are alternatives, but, ladies and gentlemen, it would be fair for you to tell us what those alternatives mean in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u150	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u151	Mr President! Congressman Lindtman is the master of turning things around. We're always talking about the post-corona period. If we do not have faster economic growth than the forecasts currently show, if we are going to be in debt as fast as the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance and the government itself show, then it will lead us to cut back on those services in the future — if we have a low employment rate, a high level of debt and a high level of unemployment. The services of the future are at stake. It is the money of the future, the money of our children, really, and if we do not start to act at the same time that we are being revived, then we are in trouble – we are going to destroy this Nordic welfare society. If you do not do this now, you will at the same time accept that services will be worse in the future. What will happen if we do not have a higher employment rate? However, all these economists, to whom you refer, say that we can now revive but at the same time do
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u152	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u153	Madam President! Looking at yesterday’s report from the Ministry of Finance, it is one where everyone has to think about the reasons why it would seem that Finland would grow more slowly than other Nordic countries. In my view, two main reasons were raised. The first is that, unlike the rest of the Nordic countries, we have fewer people of working age and the second was that the level of education in the working age population is lower and, in particular, the issue of dropping out of secondary education was raised. In other words, we should invest in education, in the fact that when there are jobs, there are people who do them. So, how has the Coalition Party contributed to this issue here? By resisting the extension of compulsory education, which would specifically address this drop-out in secondary education. What has the government done? We have restored subjective day care rights, reduced groups to make it easier to get through school. These are just the long ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u154	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u155	Madam President! The government is getting emotional and talking with the paato — let's get back to the facts. According to the economics on the supply side, which is the basis of the VM report, tight taxation has a particularly negative impact on the conditions for growth. The central obstacle to the recovery of Finland’s economy is the growing public sector and the resulting huge tax wedge. As a medicine, the government is demanding that industry, businesses and employees have ever-increasing productivity. However, a better remedy would be to reduce the share of public finances and the tax wedge. The recovery of public finances must begin by cutting the budget that the administration is using to run itself. Central government's own expenditure alone represents almost 29 per cent of the total. But what is the government doing? Expenditure without interest for the administrative sector during the spending limits period is approximately 197 billion. The central government productivity programme saves 300 million, is saving.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u160	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u161	Madam President! There is a lack of economic policy and perhaps even a danger in speaking out completely of climate and nature policy. This was underlined recently by the report by economist Partha Dasgupta, commissioned by the British Ministry of Finance, which stated very clearly that we have built up economic and human capital through the impoverishment of natural capital. Of course, this cannot continue. It is therefore very important that, at the same time, we keep in mind what the government is committed to, the promotion of a green transition in all policy areas. However, it is worth noting that, of course, our economy also needs structural reforms. Structural unemployment, productivity, needs to be addressed. In all of these, it would be important, in my view, not to be the first to shoot down various means from any side of the hall, but, above all, to find ways to achieve these important objectives and to listen with a sensitive ear to experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u162	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u166	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u167	Madam President! There has been a lot of talk here about yesterday's report by the Ministry of Finance on the 'future' report. It also explores the potential for long-term economic growth — opportunities to be seized. Productivity can be achieved by keeping pace with technological development and digitalisation, research and high levels of expertise, among other things. The potential of EU funding for recovery must be used to catch up with the control countries. Access to skilled labour is one of the most important challenges for our future, our immediate future. The most urgent concern here is the well-being of young people and the preservation of our faith in the future. If we don't react, we'll owe you both in knowledge and well-being. Increasing the level of competence also requires investing in the competence of the entire adult population. It calls for smoother immigration and better integration of people with foreign background.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u168	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u169	Irade the Talman! When the Finns of Peru are critical of the government’s line, there are also some solutions that would be hoped for, rather than making cuts that are not ready to be made. On this issue of equality, Junnila said a good point: equality must, of course, be looked at in every situation and in both directions. And the fact that men's employment is weaker or they are more vulnerable to dismissal is probably due to the fact that women-dominated sectors are generally public sectors. When considering future business activities and Finnish companies, of course, it is essential to try to keep them in Finland for a long time, to grow here. Of course, it is always good that someone wants to invest in Finland, a Finnish company, but they should be happy to stay in our country. Yesterday it was said that a unique issue has been established at Aalto University, a professorship of ownership, and the Ministry of Finance — or is TEW? — has considered a programme of Finnish ownership that considers ownership — long-term, responsible ownership — and the impact of ownership on society. Could you tell me something about this, Minister Vanhanen? What are the conclusions of this programme? Are they perhaps those who will also be seen as legislative measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u170	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u171	Mr President! I will return to Prime Minister Marin's speech. I'm sure it's nice to listen to it, because it promised nine good things and ten beautiful things that were poetically supported by other government parties in their own group speeches, but the problem is that when you told me that you were promoting the government programme,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u175	Congressman Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u176	Mr President! This government has already done as much employment as the previous one, the Sipilä government in its full time, until mid-term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u181	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u182	Mr President! However, raising government productivity should start with a proper reading of yesterday's Ministry of Finance report and then this report from the Economic Policy Review Council less than a month ago. This is where Mr Mäkynen and many others have to say that unfortunately, the evaluation council lists a reduction of between 8,000 and 20,000 jobs through government decisions. Some more, but also clearly less, measures have been taken. This is where the Prime Minister hoped that I would focus on pleasant decisions. Sharing is beautiful, but doing what is to be shared is the basis of all things, and therefore my heart is right. These subsidy traps are not a fairy tale, especially for those suffering from a prolonged cycle of poverty. In fact, this evaluation council also assessed this increase in unemployment support, which the government has done, and stated that, unfortunately, its behavioural effects led to a reduction of some 5,000 people, and this, given the fact that there were fewer people above the poverty line than would have been able to work this year if you had taken the employment measures of the alternative budget for the Coalition Party. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u183	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u184	Mr President! As I said in my introductory remarks, the government does not exclude any means from the review when we take employment measures. We have done these things for over 30,000 people, and we will do them for at least 50,000 more. The next step is the spending limits, and then we will make concrete decisions. As Mr Orpo is well aware, the Prime Minister is not alone in this line of affairs here in the ministerial box; they are being negotiated with all the parties in the government, and then we will be able to tell you about them. Mr Mykkänen, you referred to the fact that I would have said that we should focus only on pleasant decisions. That is not what I have said. The government has also made difficult and difficult decisions. We are prepared to make difficult decisions in the future, but we are also making decisions from the point of view of values, and it is not in my values or in the values of this government that we should cut off those who are in the most difficult situation in this society, such as income support customers. You want to cut them off so that income support becomes such a responsibility. This is a policy of values that I neither recognise nor want, but we want to do it in a fair way. So we would not operate on them, who have the least of all, and give them who have the most of all. We are pursuing a policy of justice and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u186	Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u187	Mr President! I have read the report of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council for several years. Yes, I would now say that this time, however, this report by the Council of Evaluation on these big lines, which the government had to do very much last year, gave a liberating verdict: the solutions that have been adopted with very large, exceptional borrowing have involved some 3 billion solutions to support local government finances and hospital districts. This big line was approved by the economists. It is clear that when people’s livelihood is improved knowingly, on a decision-making basis, it has a negative effect on labour supply. This is known, and every now and then, when governments make improvements in people's livelihoods, they are well aware that it has an accounting impact on this employment as well. It has been argued in this debate that we have a income base that somehow is collapsing, breaking. In this respect, too, a few weeks ago, a positive news came from the Tax Administration itself that last year's tax revenues fell but fell only by over one percentage point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u190	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u191	Madam President! I'm a little surprised at what Mr. Mäkynen said about 30,000. However, the fact is that if we compare the situation of last December with that of the year before, 48,000 new unemployed people came.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u194	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u195	Madam President! As Mr Honkonen said in his excellent group statement, it is time for decentralisation. And, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that with you it has never been very successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u200	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u201	Madam President! Yesterday's Ministry of Finance report listed growth as bottlenecks with too low employment rates, too low productivity growth and too low productive investments. In order for companies to venture to invest in Finland and thus create jobs, Finland must be cost-competitive and our operating environment must be forecast very long-term. When the interest rate folds at some point, the market opens up and there is competition for market shares, then Finnish export engine companies and SMEs in their networks have opportunities. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister: what is your message and measure, so that Finnish employment companies choose Finland as their investment target?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u203	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u204	Madam President! We are dealing here with the spring legislative plan, and it is clear that the whole package of social protection legislation is one of the most important issues that comes and is already under discussion. The whole of the Sote Act was dealt with quite harshly by the Coalition Party in a couple of speeches. My own interpretation of it is about the same as Mr Kärnä's earlier interpretation that, since it does not now include a legal expropriation of EUR 6 billion, there is something in it that is extremely irritating to the coalition. But we must now understand that Finland is the only country in the world where the whole of special care and all the other health and social services are on the shoulders of a small municipality. This is not the case anywhere else in the world, and we are not always the only ones who are right about this. This voluntary road has produced the fact that 18 per cent of the Finnish population is now covered by such voluntary integrated social services systems. In ten years, we've done it. We need legislation for this, we need wider financial shoulders and integration. That is the unanimous view of all experts. There may be different views on the details. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u205	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u206	Madam President! The aim of the Sote reform is to remove treatment queues and to ensure that citizens receive good care quickly. Pirkanmaa operates units jointly owned by municipalities and hospital districts, which are limited companies: Heart Hospital and Artificial Joint Hospital Coxa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u212	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u213	Madam President! Finns are bored because politicians can't get the social welfare reform done. Now the reform of social security must be carried out without delay. That's how you want the city center, and that's how you want the country's government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u217	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u218	Mr President! One of the key objectives of the social welfare reform is to get through queues and get enough money, and this government mammoth proposal does not respond to either of them. If I now think about this from the centre's point of view, when I was quite familiar with the objectives of the centre last season, then you did not get along well in this negotiation. You wanted large-scale provinces — they will not come. There's going to be a province under the strict control of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u226	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u227	Mr President! We have already tried, you can say, over the last decade, over all three previous governments, and it has always fallen, and if I do not remember wrong, then in every one of those governments the coalition has tried to do so. Once we have learned from every round, now would be the time — I believe that many citizens, too, think that even if there is no perfect system, that social reform should already be brought to an end. We owe you that. And, Mr Orpo, on this social reform: In Vantaa, we really do have a municipal consultant, Lester, who I think is your party partner, evaluates and says that this social welfare reform does not really save Vantaa's economy. His view was quite different as far as these investments were concerned...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u232	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u233	Mr President! In his own speech, Prime Minister Marin said that the journey is still in progress, but we are on the right track. However, a recent report from the Ministry of Finance explains how the government debt ratio in Sweden and Denmark seems to remain at around 40% of GDP in the near future, compared with around 70% of GDP in Finland. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] This report only highlights the old-age dependency ratio, but in addition to that, the problems of the mind are exponentially rising across the whole population. These root causes should be addressed preventively from preschool onwards. We cannot afford to lose whole age classes for children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u234	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u235	Madam President! Now that we have been in the grip of the corona for about a year, when we look to the future, the key issues are employment, the economy and health, and it is in that health issue that social security is a big deal. We've got to get the war to the finish line at last. About 15 years have been prepared, it has been prepared by all the parliamentary parties. And I am a little surprised — and a little more — by the line of the delegation. Last season you were ready for a regional model, and now you are ready for municipal coercion because small municipalities will not survive the future in these social issues. The interest period has clearly shown that, in many workplaces, job independence is possible as long as only the telecommunications connections are in order. Prime Minister, how do you yourself view this telework and job independence? Would that be the future in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u236	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u237	Mr President! The Centre said in its group statement, which was good that the time for centralisation policy was over. Yes, I have to say that this social reform, at least from my point of view, is perhaps the biggest concentration exercise of this millennium, and it is not regional policy, because the decision-making powers of small municipalities and regional cities are now being taken away, the money is being taken away, and when you look at what has been given to each province, at least from North Savo, I would like to say that the services will be taken later, because the money will not be enough. In the Socialist Group's speech, Mrs Lindtman, whose speech was good, you said that excessive increases in electricity transmission prices would become a stop. Do you think it is reasonable for electricity companies to increase the transfer prices by 8% each year and if they have not understood to make those increases in the last four years, then further increases may be made on the request? Do you think this is reasonable?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u240	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u241	Mr President! Much has been said here about this Nordic level, which Finland needs to get to and keep up with. The Government is now preparing both the reform of the Yt law and the Finnish model of local reconciliation, says this. In this hand, I have, as it were, a preparatory case for this Yt-Law: 1) ongoing dialogue between employer and staff, 2) negotiations in the event of changes, 3) employee representation in the management of the company. I personally would like to see the development of this local agreement taken forward in parallel with the development of this cooperation law, when we come to the Nordic level, which, for example, exists in Sweden as regards the functioning of the system of trustees, in Germany through the system of administrative representation and so on. I hope this model is supported by the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u243	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u244	Mr President! The beginning of spring is, therefore, the import of foreign wood chips from Russia, the squatting of peat entrepreneurs, the survival struggle of small upper secondary schools, and, worst of all, you are just considering new ways of raising the cost of living and transport in order to achieve oversized climate targets. Even in the face of a pandemic, the government will not abandon the unnecessary ideological expenditures of the Government Programme. The waste continues, and with the EU debt package you have sealed the fate of future generations. If the EU were to propose a new recovery package, you would immediately be involved, and you will be in the face of the EU. The Finnish Government is not now led by information. Whatever the case, an increase in compulsory school age or an EU stimulus package, you ignore knowledge and experts. I'm sure it'll continue to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u246	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u247	Madam President! The Government’s line is ‘in advance of health without regard to the economy’ —this is well-established and this is the case. Consider the fact that if there had not been support for municipalities, medical districts, businesses, what kind of cry would there be here at the moment? I can't believe it. Unemployment would be in quite different numbers than it is at the moment. And we must also remember that there were seven amending budgets in addition to last year's budget, all of which financed these things, but also investment, and these investments also created employment and livelihood for the unemployed. In other words, these have been very important contributions from the government from an economic and health point of view, and we must remember that Parliament has supported these ideas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u248	Congressman Keto-Hovinen, Pihla.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u249	Thank you, Mr President. In addition to economic growth and the employment situation, we must not forget security. Formerly, Congressman Risikko highlighted the nausea of young people, which has recently been seen as serious crimes, among other things. Young people need to be integrated into society before the situation gets worse. In the case of organised crime, too, the situation has worsened throughout the 21st century, and in many ways it causes security and economic problems in our society. Unfortunately, in the government this problem does not seem to be taken into account, although we should do everything we can to keep the situation under control as far as possible. There are plenty of ideas, and they could be a separate legal initiative for everyone, but they would also like the government to be more active on this issue. My question is, are you going to do something about it this year?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u250	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u251	Madam President! As a provincial person, I still have nightmares about the last map exercise of the coalition government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u255	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u256	Madam President! On climate issues, we seem to have taken a little too big a lion's leap. The government should really be wondering if this has been done. Yes, this has been done. As a result, jobs run away to China and jobs run away to Russia. Domestic peat is poison, but Russian peat is not poison. This seems to be a rather gleaming policy, and it seems that peat production may even need to be increased, which sinker. Domestic work, domestic work and domestic work should now be taken into account, and that is what the True Finns have done. It is actually quite incredible that the centre does not defend domestic peat, but just as incredible is that the centre does not defend motoring. There will be more and more discipline in motoring. It is beginning to feel that the centre is really going to concentrate everything on the centers, the centers of cities. It can't be like this, it can't be like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u258	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u259	Mr President! There are many Finns here who have already wanted to cancel the climate targets, but the Left Alliance expects the Government's climate targets to be as important, as strong and as binding as the employment targets. Well, this year is the year of the climate. This year, further measures will be decided to achieve carbon neutral Finland. The government has shown very fine leadership in dealing with the corona crisis. I think that this year people expect us to have the same great leadership in climate work. Of course, the management of the corona crisis is also linked to climate work. Rebuilding must be done in such a way as to move towards a climate-proof society. This means that the government's interest subsidies and recovery must only be directed towards sustainability-supporting and fostering targets and not at any further strengthening of the fossil economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u260	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u261	Mr President! This corona crisis has shown that in all this gloom we humans are able to work together, to have empathy for each other, even to change our actions and to support each other in a difficult crisis. These skills will certainly also be needed in the coming years and decades when we solve the climate crisis and the natural disaster and build a society that is sustainable both for the environment and for people. The overwhelming majority of Finns know that the climate crisis and the natural disaster are serious threats, and it is therefore quite incredible that the Ministry of Finance will publish a report to the future in 2021 that does not address or take into account the climate and the environment at all. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how we will ensure that the whole state administration gets on the map that these existential threats must be taken into account in all decision-making now and also in the future. It is clear that it is in the interests of Finland and Finns that we create those solutions to the climate crisis that can also be exploited globally. Tail skiers are often not the winners.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u262	Let us take a few more speeches and then the Prime Minister's answer, because the time available for this is beginning to be full and there have been more than enough speeches at this time. — Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u263	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to the question of why the coalition does not support the reform of social security: There is a very simple answer, and that is that it does not answer either question, either of the problems that are being solved here — the patient does not get to treatment more quickly and does not get enough funding. But, Mr President, to my actual question. In Finland, we are used to comparing ourselves with other Nordic countries, and as has been said many times here, our employment situation and economic growth are clearly weaker and we are debting faster than other Nordic countries. Of course, in such a situation, the question must be asked where are the key differences compared to the other Nordic countries in what we do in Finland. And when you read these reports, there will be three groups of people: the employment rate of people over the age of 55, especially men; the employment rate of parents of small children, especially women; and thirdly, the employment rate of immigrants, especially women. I would now urge you, Prime Minister, to pay particular attention to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u264	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u265	Mr President! Like the government, I believe in human policy and also in human employment policy. I do not believe, for example, that cutting income support will encourage people to work. They need support and personal support in many ways. We already have enough hopelessness in this society. We need to take action to get as many people as possible into employment. Decisions have been made in the right direction. The Nordic Employment Service model is a good example of this. I welcome today's proposals for measures to increase access to employment for the part-time and disabled for various reasons. They have great potential and, best of all, a great desire to work, contrary to what is often thought. In the words of the Minister for Labour, Tuula Haatainen: it is not only about strengthening employment, but also about inclusion and fairness.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u266	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u267	Thank you, Madam President. The government has failed hard to balance the economy and its employment objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u270	Does the Prime Minister have any further comments? — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u271	Mr President! There were a lot of questions here, and I picked up some of the key themes. Firstly, this reform of social welfare and health care, which was raised in several speeches. We are now doing this social reform — which has been built for a long time, several periods of government — people and not structures ahead. We therefore want to improve people's services, improve access to care, and here, of course, the basis is strong public social and health care. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] Another major theme that was discussed here was the climate and the climate measures that we are committed to and want to do. For the purposes of this package: This should not only be viewed from the perspective of what Finland has to do for itself, just like all the countries of the world, but at the same time we should see the huge potential for Finland in combating climate change. We have amazing expertise in Finland, companies that make world-class technologies and products. This market will be big, and it is already huge at the moment, and the fight against climate change, the climate work that we are doing, offers Finnish companies and Finnish employment very big opportunities, and that is what we need to take full advantage of. We have a large climate debt and we need to talk about climate debt at the same time as we talk about economic debt or we are talking about other big and important issues. We cannot ignore the fact that we have a large climate debt and a large environmental debt, which we must equally be able to dismantle, so that future generations also have sustainable living conditions. Let us do this work in such a way that it also gives rise to work and economic success in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u272	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Economic Committee must give its opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — The debate is opened by Minister Kiuru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u273	Mr President! Soon a year will come when our lives changed in such a way that nothing like this has happened since World War II. At the beginning of last year, we had already received the first information from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. As regards the new coronavirus spread from China, following the inclusion by the Government on 13 February 2020 of a serious infection caused by a new type of coronavirus in the list of Article 1 of the CDS Regulation as a universal infectious disease, in addition to SARS and Mers. At that time we knew a little more about this other infection, but the year has passed and our knowledge and concerns have increased. In any case, the most important observation of the past year is that we have gone any way we can, we have tried to prevent the spread of the pandemic, and we have managed to treat those who have contracted the virus as well as we have been able to. As soon as the Council of State on 16 March 1920 stated that Finland was in exceptional circumstances with the President of the Republic, we introduced effective recommendations, means of ordinary legislation and restrictions based on preparedness legislation. After the end of three months of exceptional circumstances in June 2020, we have acted effectively in addition to the previous legislation, and in addition to that, in accordance with the ordinary legislation prepared immediately during and after the exceptional circumstances. In exceptional circumstances, a temporary section of the Act on Accommodation and Nutrition was prepared as a matter of urgency, under which almost all nutrition stores were kept closed to customers from 4 April to 31 May 2020. When the epidemic situation began to ease, the Government moved in May 2020 to implement its hybrid strategy and prepared the provisional provisions of the Act on the Restrictions of Nutritional Diseases. These provisions of the ordinary legislation entered into force on 1 June and the nutritional shops could be reopened for customers. The government's proposal now being presented to Parliament to amend the Act on communicable diseases temporarily is a continuation of this ordinary legislation, which has successfully prevented the spread of the corona virus epidemic, including in restaurants. Following the expiry of the articles prepared in May, the new provisions of the Act on communicable diseases, based on the same principles, entered into force on 1 November 2020. Thus, since June, for more than eight months now, the Government has, on the basis of a general and regional review of the epidemic situation, imposed restrictions on the opening time and the delivery time of the catering shops, as well as on the number of customers and their use. Temporary provisions of the Act on communicable diseases also lay down hygiene and other requirements for catering establishments, general distance requirements for customer places and the requirement to design operations. These existing provisions and the regulation adopted under them will remain in force until the end of February. However, the epidemic of the corona virus can go much further this year, even though public vaccination is already well under way. There have also been coronavirus variants, so the risk of virus variants spreading is very high in this respect. It is precisely in this situation that the National Institute for Health and Welfare has considered that current information is necessary and timely in view of the threat of an epidemic to enhance covid-19 prevention, particularly in view of the potential impact of virus variants. The spread of the epidemic has been effectively prevented through the regulation and restriction of nutrition activities. The present proposal provides that Articles 58a, 58b and 91(1) of the Act on communicable diseases should be extended with minor amendments by introducing a new provisional law in force from 1 March to 30 June 2021. The Government's proposal also states that if the epidemic situation requires stricter restrictions on nutrition activities, the proposal can be prepared for consideration by Parliament without delay. At the moment, we are monitoring the development of the epidemic together with hospital districts and the National Institute for Health and Welfare and, depending on the needs, we will bring possible tensions to the House. We have therefore started the preparation of this package in the Ministry in the event that, in accordance with the Finnish hybrid strategy, we move forward to level two at the stage of the spread and in this respect we will have to tighten up the regulation which would then be more stringent than this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u274	Then we will move on to the debate, with three minutes on the ground and seven on the front, but let us try to be concise so that more can be said on these scheduled sections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u275	Mr President! I've never been on such a deal before, and I've never worn a mask here before. Mr President! In line with the Government’s proposal, restrictions on the functioning of nutrition movements are now being extended four months ahead, i.e. until the end of June. So, really, the government dares to do this, and apparently the opposition is accepting all of this with silence. Statistics show that little more people have died in the last year than in the previous years, and daily data show that the test procedure for corona is unreliable. Even the test method developer feels that the majority of positive test results are incorrect. This is also supported by the following comments: Hospitals shine with their emptiness, and a potentially fatal corona can suffer symptomatically — not to mention whether, because of that questionable method of testing, normal seasonal flu cases have also been recorded as corona. Mr President! However, as the government’s proposal states, there has been little transmission of infections by the food - feeding companies, as has the use of means of transport. Yet these areas are being disciplined, as it were on purpose, and there would be a lot of hard work for the insubordination, even for the closure of the movement by police force. I have to ask the whole of Parliament: is it intended to kill off small operators in certain sectors completely in order to give the market to the big players? Regarding Korona, the treatment has gone worse than the disease. The media and Parliament are jointly responsible for this madness. We have been fomenting fear of death among the population for a year now. That's why people don't even have the courage to live a normal life anymore. There is a shocking wave of bankruptcy that is crushing companies and therefore human fates. What do you think that's gonna do? At its worst, we can even say goodbye to social peace. Mr President! The destruction of businesses for the sake of the interest rate has been a very irresponsible activity. From the outset, protection measures should have been targeted specifically at the vulnerable population, in particular the elderly, who could be fatally affected by any disease. They say the government is planning new restrictions if the disease gets worse. I would like to know whether you have perhaps already agreed with each other that the disease situation will get worse and whether you have already agreed and decided on the transfer of municipal elections for the sake of the interest rate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u276	Let us take a few speeches to this stage, and then we shall have a debate on this kind of debatable one-minute speeches, because otherwise many speakers will be so late. — So the next step is the representative of Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u277	Mr President! The amendments to the Act on communicable diseases have colored not only parliamentary debate but also civil debate for almost a year. Today, too, there are two paragraphs in the plenary on amendments to the Act on communicable diseases and the comments of the committees. It tells us that the government and Parliament are trying hard to make Finland win even after a difficult time. This government proposal proposes temporary changes to the Act on communicable diseases — something familiar in itself over the past year. The changes concern certain restaurants from the beginning of March to the end of June. Restaurants should continue to comply with specific hygiene requirements and safety intervals, among other things. I believe that this is a quite legitimate claim which most of the restaurants have followed up to now. It is also important that decisions on restrictive measures can be taken according to the local disease situation. Although decisions are taken above health safety, other impacts must also be assessed. It is also absolutely necessary to consider what restrictive measures mean for business. Temporary amendments to the Act on communicable diseases strengthen the ability of local authorities to take proactive and rapid action to prevent the spread of the corona virus. This is a good thing. Agility and situational velocity are necessary in the world of the transformation virus. The aim of the proposal is to curb the corona epidemic effectively, as little as possible to the detriment of people and businesses, which should continue to be the case in the future. President! In connection with restrictions on restaurants, people’s understanding has been tested especially in two types of cases: First, many have had difficulty accepting that when you have acted cautiously and perhaps stayed at home, others have gathered together to celebrate. These news flashes may come from both the country of origin and abroad. On the other hand, many municipalities have at the same time had a calm corona situation and, due to restrictions, a restaurant running into bankruptcy. This has not seemed fair either. Mr President! Unfortunately, this is still not over: we will continue to balance, we will continue to take sensible action head-on health ahead, but we will also support the economy and humanity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u278	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u279	Madam President! The Corona virus epidemic can go a long way this year, as unfortunately vaccinations are progressing slower than expected. One way to prevent the spread of this epidemic is today in our debate, namely to regulate and limit food service activities through customer numbers, opening hours and time limits. Yes, these restrictive measures are certainly necessary, although at the same time, of course, the concern must be raised that the threat of the bankruptcy of food businesses will continue to increase as the epidemic and restrictions continue. The government's proposal also states that more than a fifth of the companies in the tourism and restaurant services consider themselves to be at risk of bankruptcy in six months' time, and this threat is particularly felt by pubs and nightclubs. However, it is important, Madam President, that the various corona restrictions are proportionate and also understandable and fair from the point of view of the citizens. In particular, there has come to be quite a lot of wonder that sports services, especially for children and young people, are being restricted or that cultural events, including those of the congregations, are being restricted, while, at the same time, the restaurants can meet to sing karaoke, and, of course, we still have shopping centres where they are crowded. In other words, a great deal of these inquiries come from the citizens. And now that we are dealing with this whole issue of the infectious disease law later on, I would like to point out that, if we look at these various risk factors for corona disease, there are also risk factors, such as obesity and poor health, basic fitness, and in that sense it would be important for citizens to be encouraged to engage in physical activity, and that these various measures to limit the epidemic would be appropriate and proportionate and fair as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u280	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u281	Madam President! With regard to this temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases in restaurants, there is certainly a great deal of consensus that it is still necessary to take account of the disease situation, although, understandably, it causes a lot of problems in the restaurant sector and it must be ensured that companies continue to be supported over this difficult period. At the same time, however, I could ask Minister Kiuru about this monitoring, how it has worked, particularly with regard to these karaoke-type bars, when it is sometimes apparent in public that there has been a failure to comply with the safety instructions, although the majority of them do so well. This also seems particularly unfair in view of the other limitations that our society now has, especially in relation to children and young people. For example, in upper secondary schools and vocational schools, children and young people have been in distance education for several months, and everyone can understand that such a time alone at home, talking to a laptop, is not good for anyone, and for young people who are growing up, social contacts and other activities are important. It is also important to remember that when vocational education involves much more than theoretical studies, there is group education and other learning where the handicrafts are learned, in what way the level of education corresponds to what its syllabus should be. I am also concerned about university students in the sense that they cannot get to that university world, and new students in a foreign area are left alone in their own homes, which increases the demand and need for mental health services. Unfortunately, access to mental health services is very difficult at the moment, and this has been made even more difficult by the interest rate. It was a good thing that children’s hobbies were opened in the capital region despite strong government pressure. It was great that the mayors here were able to see the full benefits of children and also that health is not just one virus, but health is holistic, it is a psychosocial entity. And when it comes to children and young people who are generally also mildly affected, the restrictions assessed individually have been too severe. Access to mental health services: The Therapy Guarantee would provide a low threshold for access to basic services, and it would therefore be important to move this forward as soon as possible. The government has said that this would be achieved in the context of the treatment guarantee, but children and young people cannot wait for the future. Their time is right here and now, and they need help right now. The organisations certainly approached all the MPs, whether it was yesterday or today, and suggested whether the therapeutic guarantee could not now be implemented before that treatment guarantee, because there is a great deal of emergency in the field. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: can we now get this therapeutic guarantee started? It costs 35 million a year, but the benefits are much wider: it prevents exclusion, prevents incapacity for work, prevents detention. This is a small sum for our children and young people to stay in better shape — and also for adults who can be kept functional longer and get back to work. Mr President! Every year 10,000 to 30,000 suicides are being attempted in Finland and this is too much. 800 of them will work. Last night, the subway was shut down for a while after a man had fallen on the tracks. It stopped the situation of that person and his loved ones, and life is no longer there. How much can we afford to postpone decisions? This is the time, and I would like to see this matter of mental health services put in order. We need to get to treatment faster, and no social welfare reform will be able to get to it, and it will not even respond to it. Sote reform is merely an administrative price, an administrative blow that does not improve anyone's services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u282	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u283	Madam President! Right here, because I'm not going to talk about anything but the infectious disease case right now. We now have this continuation of the restrictions on restaurants in this debate. The role of restaurants is quite diverse here in Parliament, both in the committees and in the large hall, for reasons that are understandable to us in less than a year. We know that in many other countries restaurants have had to be regulated much more strictly than in Finland. My view is that we have tried to do our best to distinguish between different types of restaurants from the risk of corona infection, i.e., as often spoken in everyday language, restaurants versus bars or pubs. But here is now the great challenge of this latter group, namely these bars. Right here in the news of the last few days, I think it was in the Helsingin Sanomat yesterday that half of the people in Helsinki had become a corona infection. And if we continue to think that they will then spread to 15, for example, when they had been caught by 15, then this exponential explosion is absolutely fierce. The example of Jyväskylä was more than a week ago. I'm afraid there's a lot of these. When I myself have made these things observation, the challenge is obvious. In other words, if the restaurants were to operate as we generally recommend, such as the THL’s recommendation that there should be a distance of two metres between people, there would be no infection there. But everyone understands that it is not, of course, the restaurant’s business of going two meters away, but there are close and often then the sound rises, and especially if you sing karaoke and stuff, there are bristles and masks are not used. For my part, as other Members of Parliament do, I belong to a group of people who can afford to use food restaurants, visited food restaurants on a weekly basis, both here in Helsinki and in my locality in Turku, and I have seen how highly health-friendly it can be arranged there. So, of course, I am in favour of this extension, but I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that this 50% limit on the number of customers, especially in these bars and pubs, does not work many times in practice, because the maximum theoretical number of seats is so large that even 50% of people are very close to each other and then the conditions for infection exist. This is a practical concern, but I have no solution here. Let us see in committee how we can take this forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u284	I have just promised that we will have a few minutes' speaking time, but when the representatives of the opposition who wished to do so have left, we will go on the normal list. — — — — So next up is Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u285	Thank you, Madam President. This amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, which is now under discussion, must also be examined critically. The fact is that Finland does not have enough resources in the field of social services to take large-scale measures for citizens to isolate a huge number of people in their own homes and, if necessary, to apply for health care units from isolation. It is also important to respect the fundamental rights of citizens in the context of restrictive measures. It is therefore legitimate to ask why such strong restrictive measures are to be incorporated into the law in a situation where even public transport has not been introduced as a less restrictive measure. So there is no need to wear a mask, but now the government is taking the bill of law as an acclaim, which restricts citizens' fundamental rights in a heavy way. Mr President! I would like to appeal to Parliament to stop and consider whether the proposal is too much interference with the fundamental rights of citizens and whether it would be more sensible to start imposing restrictive measures at a lower level. In Germany, for example, there is a requirement to wear masks in public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u286	Half an hour is really fast, and now we have a minute to speak to the Minister to end this part of the debate, as it were. — Here you go, Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u287	Mr President! Mr Mäkynen here called for measures which would be less restrictive than the restriction of fundamental rights. The challenge is that it is up to the government to take immediate action if the lives or health of citizens are at risk. Now I ask whether there is any awareness of what kind of crisis we are dealing with. In this case, we are bound by the fact that the Government must take action, and that is precisely what has been done. These measures must always be timely and prepared in a way that shows that these restrictions are necessary. Our message in relation to this criticism, which has also been expressed in this Chamber about the need to regulate these restaurants, the nutritional movements, is very clear: no restrictive measures are being prepared in vain or, in any case, implemented unnecessarily. Here are some good examples of how in this explosive situation
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u288	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u289	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u290	Thank you, Mr President. We have now lived with various restrictions for a year now, and it seems that we all have to endure these restrictions for a while — hopefully for a short time. This corona pandemic has affected many sectors very strongly, and the restaurant sector is one of them. In order to protect the health of citizens, restrictions have been imposed since last spring, when restaurants even had to be closed for almost two months because of the corona situation in the whole country. Since 1 June 1920, restaurants have been open but limited. The restrictions currently in place are based on Article 58a of the Act on communicable diseases, which is provisionally annexed to the Act last May. This law, which is now provisional, will remain in force until the end of February. Since the epidemic situation is still a fact and is, in fact, showing signs of acceleration, it is clear that the restrictive measures must continue. The purpose of this government proposal is to ensure that the current restrictions on catering activities under the existing law can be maintained, at least after the current law has been in force. The Government could continue to provide for more specific restrictions by means of regulations. It is therefore proposed to extend the validity of this law and the provisional provision without amending the content for the period from 1 March to 30 June 20021. Mr President! It is important that, in line with the government's hybrid strategy, while effectively curbing the spread of the epidemic itself, the aim is to minimise harm to people, businesses and society. The Corona virus epidemic can go a long way this year, even though vaccinations gradually bring hope that we will get to a better situation. The National Institute for Health and Welfare has considered that, based on current information, it is necessary and proportionate to the epidemic situation to enhance covid-19 prevention, in particular in view of the potential impact of virus transformation. I see, therefore, that we have no choice but to proceed according to this government proposal with regard to restrictions on food service activities, although it is nice and nice for no one of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u291	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u292	Mr President! The Korona spreads where people are close together and, according to experience, it spreads especially where the wine flows and the song sings. The restrictions on restaurant access, opening hours and customer places are unpleasant but necessary in this disease situation, where we are unfortunately still in. With this bill, restaurant restrictions already in force will continue until the end of June. The restrictions are regional and are determined by a regulation according to the epidemic situation in the region. I think it is essential that this proposal continues with the existing restrictions on restaurants, so hopefully the law will be dealt with smoothly in Parliament. At the same time, I hope that this bill will not have to be brought here again, but that even in the summer the situation will be better. But, Mr President, although the activities of restaurants are being restricted at the moment and also in the months to come with the extension of this temporary law, many people ask why they can sing karaoke in restaurants while children's hobbies are interrupted in many places and the second degree is in distance education. It is a legitimate and understandable question. [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u295	Representative Rehn-Kivi — gone. Representative Kauma — absent. Representative Salmon — Gone. Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u296	Irade fru talman! I propositionen föreslås det att giltighetstiden för dessa temporära bestammelser i lagen om smittsamma sjukdomar förlängs till och med den 30 trains 2021. De nuvarande begränsningarna tar slut den sista februari, och de begränsningarna har redan förlängts en gång. Denna förlängning föreslås nu att gälla länge som de övriga temporära ändringarna av lagen om smittsamma sjukdomar som vi tidigare i dag har hast i första behandling. Det rai lagförslaget är odramatiskt på det viset att det gäller en förlängning. Det gäller dock en fråga med stor principiell betydelse och att begränsa näringsfriheten för en sector. Av den anledningen är det logiskt att inte ha lagen i kraft längre an nödvändigt samt att ricksdage oftare får granska om detta är nödvändigt. Det är någonting som grundlagsutskottet också tydligt slagit fast. Den raut lagen harlite speciellt upplägg effectsom den inte följer lagen om smittsamma sjukdomars normala logik, där det är är regionalförvaltningsverk eller kommuner samt på Åland Ålands landskapsregering som beslutar om förvaltningsbesluten. I detta fall är det statsrådet som fattar besluten också i frågan om Åland. [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u299	Värderade Talman! Helt kort, bull har ju sagts det mesta. Vi diskuterade också det rai tidigare i dag.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u300	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Det gångna året har ju varit valdigt tufft på många sätt och coronan har berört oss alla på ett eller you give sätt. Här hör ju ett stort tag till alla finländarra som tillsammans och ansvarsfult har arbetat för att vi ska hålla nere alet smittfall. Vi ser ju ett ljus i tunnel, och en del av det är är de raus ändringarna i lagen om smittsamma sjukdomar. Vi ser förstås en viss trötthet kring de raus restrictionnerna, och det är någonting som vi måste ta på allvar. Det som diskuteras nu är ju en temporär ändring kring att reservationnerna i restaurangverksamheten gäller fram till den 30.6. Precis som nämndes är det viktigt att också komma ihåg att det berör ganska många personal som jobbar inom den rai branschen, men att vi ändå måste kunna föra en dialogue om vi kan göra någonting ytterligare för att ännu förbättra situationen, ettersom vi vet att en hel del smittor har komit via restauranter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, there is a government proposal that the activities of nutritionists during the pandemic should be subject to some regulation and that the provisional provisions for nutritionists should continue until 30 June. Good speeches have been made here, and I fully agree that these are not pleasant decisions, but this is the way to put an end to this wretched corona pandemic. Madam President! Now that we are discussing referrals, I would like to point out that, even now, regional decisions can be taken on how long the restaurants can be open and how long they can be given. I bring up this perspective that now there are two provinces next to each other in Northern Finland: is the province of Kainuu and the province of North Savo. Restaurants in North Savo are currently open until midnight, but restaurants in Kainuu are allowed to be open until 10:00. This has raised debate and questions for the business community. I would now like to point out that in North Savo — I was looking at the THL Coronation Incidence Map — the incidence rate was 37,7 and in Kainuu it was 33,4. With this speech, I would like to point out that there would be no confrontation of this kind with the actors in different regions. I would therefore like to see a common set of rules of play in the future, that when we look at regionally whether the restaurants can be open until when, then, we would find such fairness in this situation as well. President! That is what I wanted to say in this referral debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u302	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u303	Irade fru talman! Ledamot Strand brukar ha mycket klokt att säga i sina talturer, också den rai gången, och det är faktiskt en sak som jag tyckte ha rain mycket bra som jag skulle grain fästa uppmärksamhet på. Det är den svartmålning som vi ofta ser av restauranter i den offentliga debatten, att alla restauranter och barer och caféer skulle vara någon karaokecirkus, precis som ledamot Strand uttryckte sig, och så är ju inte fallet. De flesta restaurangägarna, eller jag ska säga under the nipple, sköter ju sig oerhört bra och man tar de raus restrictionnerna på allra största allvar. Man säkerstaller avstånden, man ser till att det finns handsprit och man ser över stadrutinerna, precis som sig bör, för det ligger ju inte Heller i restaurantägarnas intresse att se en smittospridning — det påverkar deras varumärke — utan man vill verklgen att de raus sakerna fungerar. Åland är ett bra exempel på det ox. Under hela den pandemic vi har haft har inte ett enda fall av de över 100 bekräftade fallen som har uppmärksammats på Åland kommit från restauranger eller smittats i en restaurangbionö. Det visar också att det går att hålla restaurantangerna och caféverksamheten och barerna öppna under en pandemic. Det är viktigt för dem som får sin sysselsättning från restaurangerna — det är många tiotusentals arbetsplatser — och deras familger, som behover den rai inkomsten, men det är också viktigt för Människors vämående att kunna träffas, men naturligtvis under säkra och trygga former för att inte sprida viruses. Det ligger ju verklogen i pool intresse att inte få en spridning av viruses, och det är också det att restaurantägare och hela allmänheten har tagit pandemin på så stort allvar som gör att vi har ett så bra smitttoläge i Finland överlag, att alla helt enkelt tar ansvarls vi nu med vaccinernas hjälp ska få slut på den rai pandemin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u304	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Let's be brief. It has not just been said here that now that we are starting to turn on these various forms of cost support and compensation packages, it is extremely important that they too be viewed from the very point of view of employment. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already heard a preliminary report on this today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u306	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Mr Pekonen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will give a presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u307	Thank you, Madam President. This proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Social Insurance Institution. These changes are mainly of a technical nature and have no direct economic impact. The purpose of the proposal is to update the provisions concerning the functions and organisation of the Social Insurance Institution and to ensure the timeliness and efficiency of the activities of the Social Insurance Institution. The amendments introduced amend the Act on the Social Insurance Institution to reflect the new organisational structure of the institution. The proposal has been prepared in cooperation with the Social Insurance Institution. It is also proposed to include provisions on the service of decisions on benefits to be implemented by the Social Insurance Institution in the form of ordinary electronic service. Currently, the decisions of the Social Insurance Institution are sent by post as a regular service. The operating environment of the Social Insurance Institution has changed with the increase in e-services. It is therefore necessary that decisions may also be served on the addressee by means of ordinary electronic service, provided that he has given his consent. In view of the large number of letters sent annually by the Social Insurance Institution — 15.1 million letters in 2019 — the reform will also have an environmental impact. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u308	Then let's go to the congressmen's discussion. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u309	Madam President! The legislation on the Social Insurance Institution is very old and old, and it is excellent that we are now moving forward with the reform of the legislation, and thank you, Mr Pekonen, for that. In many ways legislation has become obsolete. In accordance with the Constitution, the Social Insurance Institution is under the authority of Parliament, and the Social Insurance Institution is supervised by delegates. Last season I was the chairman of the delegates, and that was when we started working on the reform of the legislation on the Social Insurance Institution. We produced a report by the working group, which unanimously produced proposals, and we then forwarded them to the government and the ministry, but unfortunately it did not progress at the time, and it is now important that progress be made on this issue. This proposal, which is now under discussion, makes changes which I support. They are of a technical nature, but it is important that the committee goes through them very carefully. I would also like to say that a major reform of the Social Insurance Institution was carried out in 2015-2016. It was then that the regional government was abolished. It was then seen that regional government was a history, and the two-tier administration — I hope that the social model will also learn from this — but unfortunately the legislation did not change. In other words, the law is now being changed to reflect the current model of administration of the Social Insurance Institution. In the same way, a lot of tasks have been delegated to Kela and the legislation has not been sufficiently reformed. And now, as Mr Pekonen said, it is also possible to improve services. According to the law, Kela's decisions must be sent by post as a regular service and it has not been possible to use the electronic notification. This is really a big deal for Kela's services, because now, if you want to, you can choose to receive this information electronically. This will thus improve people’s choice and the services of the Social Insurance Institution. But, indeed, these changes are still small. But what should be done and what is important now is that a parliamentary working party is set up. It is important that it has representatives from each parliamentary group, and that parliamentary working group, which the Kela delegates have already called for in the last term, is responsible for acting as an overcoat, together to see how this law is being reformed. I would like to say that the relationship of competence with the Social Insurance Institution does not currently correspond to the present. I believe that the law needs to be reformed in such a way that the leaders of Kela would no longer be appointed by the President of the Republic, but by the Government of Kela. Nor is there any reason why Kela’s directors are appointed to a pension post, but Kela’s management should be fixed-term like the other management of the state administration. It is also important to clarify the relationship of jurisdiction between Kela's leadership and the Board of Directors. At the moment, the powers of the Board of Directors are very weak and, for example, they do not have the option of choosing Kela's management, nor of separating it, but of the elected representatives of Kela's management, who are responsible for supervising. I believe that these relationships of jurisdiction are unclear and inappropriate. It is important that this legislation is clarified and that the powers of the Kela Government are also strengthened and that the governance relationship between ministries is assessed. It is also good to see whether the controls are fully in order. The delegates have done a good job, but the world has changed, the role of Kela has changed, and it is also good to look at the whole, the supervision, in that parliamentary working group. Indeed, a large package of amendments to Kela's legislation was completed during the last period and I think it is important now that the whole package should be sent to all Members of Parliament, and then the parliamentary groups could look at it. I would also like to say, Mr President, that I am concerned that the Kela delegates do not have representatives of all groups, i.e. there are no small parliamentary groups, for example. That, too, is something we need to consider. When we monitor a really large, large, important Social Insurance Institution for all Finns, I think that its parliamentaryism should be reflected there. This proposal was not the proposal of the working group, but it must also be seen because there will be so many questions for the Members of Parliament. Many citizens know that Kela is being monitored by representatives, and then it would be good for that information to be passed on in small groups as well. Here I would like to say that I am proposing and I hope that, during this parliamentary term, this legislation will be adopted together, that we will get proposals from the Minister here in Parliament and that we will be able to agree on it together. And I say that in many ways Kela is in the everyday lives of almost everyone in Finland and securing the quality of the Kela operating conditions is central to people's lives and to the whole Finnish welfare society. There's a really good staff at the Kela. Even in the time of the corona, they have stretched out to an incalculable level of performance, and they are doing demanding work. Yes, the staff also deserve a clear, modern management system, and I therefore hope that as soon as possible we will be able to continue with the legislative proposals that reform and bring Kela's administration and also the legislation on Kela to the present day. But in conclusion, Kela's operations are in the present time, and it is managed by good personnel in Kela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u310	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u311	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for bringing this legislative amendment to Parliament. This opportunity to send decisions electronically to the customers of Kela who want it is a very good and brilliant modernisation of the operation. It will improve customer service and reduce red tape and also reduce unnecessary paper use, i.e. bring legislation to the present time. Regarding Kela's decisions, I would like to say that from the point of view of further development of customer service, I hope that the clarity and understanding of the decision will be further developed. I know that it has already been developed and tried to move it forward, but the world is certainly not ready for this too, and yet it is in everyone's interest that the applicant always understands the decision and the reasons for it. With regard to the previous speech, Mr Sarkomaa's comments, the reform of Kela's administration and legislation is indeed being carried out and it is hoped, and I do agree with the hope that it will be brought forward during this period, and I also agree with Mr Sarkoma's wish that, in the context of the reform, the Kela Council should be represented by all the groups, including smaller parliamentary parties. This would be in line with the spirit of parliamentaryism and Parliament's right to information and influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u312	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u313	Madam President! Just as the rapporteur, Mr Pekonen, has said, these are, in themselves, technical but important reforms, but I thought that this would give rise to at least some kind of debate about Kela, because Kela is such a central body in Finland, and Mrs Sarkomaa started one and she made a very good speech on the matter. I would have liked to have given him feedback, but it goes to his attention, even though he is no longer in this Chamber. I myself asked to speak because in the last few days the issue of social security in Finland has been the subject of public debate. After all, social security is a very broad concept. In practice, we spend EUR 70 billion on social security. Of this income support, which I have sometimes seen as one of the biggest misinterpretations when it comes to mixed income support and social security, is 1%, or about 700 million of the 70 billion that is social security in Finland — half of which is pension expenditure. But as far as Kela is concerned, Kela really redistributes 15 billion benefits, which is about 7 per cent of our GDP, which means that Kela is one of the most important institutions in Finland. Of this, health insurance is the largest, i.e. 4.3 billion, and medical reimbursements are the largest of the individual parts of health insurance, i.e. approximately 1.5 billion. Pension expenditure, which is shared by Kela, is 2.3 billion and benefits for families with children 1.9 billion, unemployment security expenditure 1.9 billion, housing allowance expenditure 1.5 billion, housing allowance expenditure 600 million for pensioners, basic income support, as I have already said, 700 million, disability benefits 550 million, rehabilitation benefits approximately 500 million and study grants approximately 500 million. In other words, already on this list we see how important an institution is at stake, in which case the development of Kela, the improvement of governance, to put it fine, and the preparatory work on it, is very important, and I agree with the views expressed here by both Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Sarkomaa. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u314	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u315	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here and it is good to agree with the good speeches made by previous colleagues. It is not, in itself, a very large matter. We are talking about updating Kela's tasks, and I am sure that many people will sign that this is a good thing. In many respects, however, Kela is better than its reputation. Many times we think of Kela as a very rigid and old-fashioned organisation, but as Mr Sarkomaa well described, a lot of progress has been made, and this is a good development for it. As I said, there are very small but supported reforms. I particularly welcome this electronic future of service, i.e., if today the letter has been sent to the customers, this is a significant improvement and a step in the modern direction. Minister Pekonen said that in 2019 15.1 million letters were sent from Kela. That is an incomprehensible amount, and, as I said, this is also an environmental impact in the long run. Mr Sarkkinen raised a good point, i.e. increasing clear languageism in the decisions on benefits. Many times we do not understand and wake up to how many people we have who would demand plain language. The share of plain language should be increased in everything, in all information and decisions and services. If Kela’s decisions are challenging many times for anyone to understand and have to work to understand everything they want to say, then it is really important to pay attention to this fact that the customer base that needs to be read is also available on Kela’s behalf. We will continue to deal with this matter in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u316	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u317	Mr President! I think that very good speeches have already been made here about this proposal itself, for which we should of course be grateful — it is a good one, even if it is not a broad one. But I would like to remind you that Kela has been one of the pioneers in Finland for years, you could say, in the operation of electronic services. Given that, however, you could say that almost all Finns at least at some point in their lives are Kela's customers and are dealing with Kela, I am happy in the big picture about how Kela has started developing its own services, and there are Kanta services and so on, which are being developed. Here Mr Sarkomaa, who left, spoke on this reform of Kela. I see, however, that Kela is an institution subject to Parliament, and when it is being reformed, even the administration, it is extremely important that it is done under parliamentary authority, as is now being done and discussed. And I think it is very important that, although it is good that our own views are being expressed here, as it should be, in the final analysis, when it is an institution under the Parliament and so important to the Finns, it should be reformed with the widest possible parliamentary consensus so that we do not now use the majority of the government to reform it, for example, but I do see that, on an equal footing, representatives of opposition parties and representatives of government parties should think about what we are doing. And at least I am going to assume that it has to happen in such a way that we try to reach consensus, that Kela is being taken in this direction, that it is an important institution for us. No, I'm not. Talking positively about Kela just because my father's grandfather, as a minister in 38 years, prepared the Kela Act for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u318	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u319	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation and thank you to your colleagues for your very good contributions. This actual proposal proposes that the provisions concerning Kela's tasks and organisation be updated and made more effective. This would therefore support the renewed organisational structure. Electronic notification will be made more effective and the objective is that it will apply to all benefits by the end of 2022. This is a very good thing. With this, we can see that paper service is constantly decreasing and electronics are being increased and savings are being made when letters are no longer sent. But at this point in this digital leap we must also note the fact that we still have very many elderly people, even middle-aged people who do not necessarily use e-mails, there is no computer. They're using the phone. They're waiting for that letter. This leap to this electronic, only electric, must not be too fast. And while the peat is not part of this, I will focus on it: the peat issue went too fast, and the end result is now very problematic. By putting this electronic into practice, of course, you must identify yourself, and it is good for security when you identify yourself inside that program. However, it poses problems for people who do not have that computer. This is a challenge for many years to come, and I am sure that everyone who is human will have the knowledge that belongs to them. At this point I would also like to draw attention to the fact — and I would also like the Minister to draw attention to it — that Kela's offices would not be reduced much more now, because it is still up to today to do business on the counter and we need to get things done quickly on the phone. At this point I also offer my greetings to the Minister and to all of us Kela's delegates and also to Kela. I met a service provider in Turku yesterday, Turku's TAITO education is his area, which he represents. With this greeting, when the organisation of Kela is reformed, I would like to draw attention to these small service providers who cooperate with Kela. Their message is: the service providers should be consulted more, i.e. the expertise and vision of the other party would also need to be heard a little better. The smoothness of things and the bureaucracy were brought up in this meeting of ours. Kela has great knowledge resources with its lawyers and experts. Yet the contract texts often have a huge amount of such things and extra legal references, that this kind of small operator is all rattled up, and necessarily those things do not even belong to the service provider. More attention should be paid to these. Otherwise, this show is good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u320	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u321	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. We are now going through a change of laws in Kela. In fact, Reel is sometimes criticized, but those reproaches are often quite unnecessary. Kela makes people’s daily lives much easier if you wonder how easily you can get reimbursements directly from a pharmacy with a Kela card, you can get reimbursement for medical fees directly, you don’t need a terrible bureaucratic war there, and you also need a drug roof when you’re full, when people have bought enough medicines so that the Kela roof will be filled, so it’ll be terribly easy to handle it directly through Kela. In the past, you had to write a ticket, a note, but now you can do this very well via the pharmacy directly. But bureaucracy has decreased. Kela is doing an important job, and I appreciate Kela's employees, and at the same time I share with that representative Elomaa the concern of those who do not have a computer. You always have to be able to handle things without a computer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u322	And then the minister, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u323	Mr President! Thank you very much to all the representatives for their good contributions. There's been a lot of commendation here for Kela and the employees of Kela. I agree with these thanks and say that, especially during this corona crisis, Kela has also shown flexibility: we have received completely new and new types of benefits for customers for payment and payment on time too. First of all, Mr Elomaa and Mr Reijonen, I would like to say that this proposal actually allows this decision to be sent electronically, which means that it will also be possible to obtain these decisions electronically in the future. Representative Sarkomaa here drew attention to this parliamentary working group, which is indeed on the agenda. We have asked all parliamentary groups and also the Kela Government to be members of the working group, and this working group is to be appointed as soon as the requests are received from the requested parties. It is, of course, possible to take a bigger look at the tasks and activities of Kela here, but since the Constitutional status of the Social Insurance Institution is strong, it is therefore important to prepare these most important changes in parliamentary terms. I also share this concern raised here by Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Sarkkinen in relation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Kela Council. I think it is important that all the parliamentary groups in the Kela Council should be represented. Finally, I would like to say that this clear language, which has been raised in several speeches, is an extremely important issue. Here, of course. Kela answers for itself that those decisions are plain language, and I believe that this message also goes to Kela from here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u324	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 1/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the committee, presentation of the report, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u325	Mr President! This is a government proposal to amend the Act on communicable diseases and, in the case of certain articles, a temporary amendment. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to review the kind of changes the government is proposing to make to the Act on communicable diseases. There are four of these. The first is that it is proposed to provide for a last-minute, regional or national obligation to change the functioning of the social and health care system in order to ensure the functioning of the social and health care system. The second relates to the proposal to provide for the conditions under which different services can be provided to customers and participants during the corona virus epidemic in such a way as to ensure that the spread of new infections can be prevented as effectively as possible. These activities include the need for hygiene practices to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease, the cleaning of premises and surfaces and the maintenance of sufficient distances. If these are not sufficient, in addition to complying with general hygiene requirements, the municipality or the Regional State Administrative Agency could take a decision requiring traders and other actors to take measures to prevent close contact in customer premises and other open spaces. The operator could itself implement the most appropriate way of organising its activities in such a way that close contact between customers and participants could be effectively avoided. And then, as a very last resort, the proposal proposes that the municipality or the Regional State Administrative Agency should be able to close the premises for business or other activities intended for the use of customers or participants for a limited period of time. However, very strict criteria have been set. Thirdly, it is proposed to lay down equivalent hygiene requirements and, where appropriate, to limit passenger numbers in passenger transport by decision of the Authority. And the fourth package concerns the proposal for monitoring these obligations. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has given five opinions, which have been taken into account in the work of the committee. I am going to go through some of the key points in our report, particularly those where changes are being made to the government's proposal. First of all, I would like to take this introduction of Article 9a, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew serious attention to in its opinion, so that this proposal does not deviate significantly from the provisions of the Emergency Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs sees that it is not entirely appropriate to make changes of this kind to the legislation of normal conditions, even if the mandate is specified. As a result, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that Article 9a is intended to serve as a last resort guidance tool and to be used only in situations where the functioning of the service system is seriously threatened. Therefore, the need for regulation within the meaning of the Article is in principle reflected in a situation in which exceptional circumstances may also exist within the meaning of the Emergency Act. The Preparatory Act contains specific safeguards for the implementation of fundamental and human rights and for ensuring the status of Parliament. With reference to the above, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that this Article 9a and, in that connection, Article 79a would be deleted. Then I would like to raise an issue which has been raised in the media, if not so widely, at least in the social media and in the public contacts received by members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This relates to the clarification that is being proposed in the articles of the Act on Contagious Diseases on quarantine and isolation. After all, there has been a great deal of concern in public feedback that children could be isolated from their parents simply because of a suspicion of a corona. I would like to raise this exceptionally in this presentation because it involves, you can say, a complete misunderstanding. No such regulation has been proposed in this government proposal. On the contrary, it is precisely in the law that it is in the interests of the child, rather than the health care unit, that the child needs to be isolated, quarantine and isolation are carried out in accordance with current practice, in principle at the child’s home. There may be situations where it is in the best interests of the child to be isolated in a hospital, in a health care unit or, of course, in situations where the child is located outside the home, in such a housing unit. But I want to correct this misunderstanding once and for all. Mr President! I would like to make the following point, which relates to the amendments proposed in the committee's report, and that relates to the delimitation of the external space in relation to the possible closure of business premises. In this connection, in its report, the committee draws attention to the fact that the wording of the provision is limited in such a way that, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory statement of the government proposal, it does not apply at all to, for example, ski resorts and ski resorts, which, however, must comply with a regional decision taken pursuant to Article 58d on the obligation to avoid contact if such a decision is taken and, of course, comply with the hygiene obligations already laid down by the law in principle. The committee stresses the importance of physical activity for the promotion of well-being and health and proposes that the possibility of closure of the forms of exercise referred to in Article 58g(4)(1) be limited to indoor activities. It is also proposed to exclude the outermost areas of zoos on the basis of a low risk of infection. The Committee also draws attention to the fact that, under Article 58g(5), when a closure decision is taken, account must be taken of the known expertise as to whether the physical proximity of customers or participants constitutes, or at the same time the number or other location of persons present in the holding or the spread of the disease through the surfaces, a specific risk for the spread of the disease. In addition, account must be taken of the existence of a specific potential for the emergence of significant transmission chains in the operational or available facilities. I would like to say at this stage that the government's proposal already contains very strict criteria for the fact that, at the last stage, only when necessary, these facilities can be closed down. There are criteria not only for this excess of 50/10,000 but also for untraceable clusters of diseases in the region, which pose a significant risk for the spread of new infections, and for the estimated number of infections to lead to a significant increase in the need for hospital and intensive care. These must all take place in order to move to this most serious stage — the most serious of all — in terms of fundamental rights, in terms of freedom of trade — that is to say, to restrict business activity by closing down some premises. Finally, I would like to mention the last amendment that the committee made to this effect, which relates to the entry into force and also to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These changes, the temporary changes, were supposed to be in force until the end of 2021, but with regard to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the committee proposes in its report that these changes, which are intended to be subject to temporary periods, should be in force for 30 years. Before and including 31 June 2021. The committee's report also contains two statements. Statement 1 concerns the fact that Parliament requires the Government to prepare: [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u328	And then, Congressman Turtiainen. I would like to remind you that we have a decision by the Council of Presidents on the use of the mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u329	Mr President! The interest rate is easily transmitted through human contact, like other seasonal flu-like diseases. All such diseases can be fatal, especially for the weak and the elderly, and this has always been the case. Nevertheless, the wheels of society must be kept rolling. The government's proposal states that the role of passenger transport in the spread of the corona virus is not entirely clear, as has been observed by the nutritious movements to transmit relatively little infection. Yet it is these areas that are being disciplined. Mr President! The interest has been over-reacted and has devastating consequences. A wave of bankruptcies is coming, and Finland is heading for economic ruin, and the government will continue to overreact with exceptional measures, and that, if anything, smells purpose-oriented. The same group is taking us to debt union and debt imprisonment with the recovery package. All of that is playing with serious business. We shouldn't play with our independence. Mr President! I have submitted to Parliament a proactive initiative to prevent forced vaccination. YLE recently asked MPs for positions on forced vaccination. We have good examples of what the folly of the media can lead to. The first thing that comes to mind is climate cheating. There has already been talk of a vaccine passport in the media. So does anyone feel that without a vaccine, people should not travel freely, for example? In the past, the Act of Infection has been interpreted in such a way that health care personnel have been required to be vaccinated even at the risk of dismissal. This nonsense must be eradicated from our society. Mr President! In protesting the report, the most foolish of its apparently incomprehensible demands even a masked mask. Now is really the time to stop playing games. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u330	Minister Kiuru, one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u331	Mr President! Mr Turtiainen, you allowed at least between the lines to understand that there would be a need for vaccination in Finland, which is why you took steps to prevent it. Or this may at least have been the case when I listened to that speech — in retrospect we see in the Minutes how close this interpretation came to me. But I want to fix that information right here. We are not planning to protect the population from forced vaccines, but to enable people, those willing, to take protection against this covid-19 virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u332	Representative Ollika — apparently absent. Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u333	Thank you, Madam President. In the report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health does not propose at this stage a provision in the Act on communicable diseases on corona dog activity, but, like the Administrative Committee, considers that it is necessary to clarify and evaluate the training and use of corona dogs for the purpose of tracing the disease. It would be very interesting to know what this means in practice. Why, for example, has this government proposal not taken account of the assistance provided by customs dogs, even though Minister Kiuru has previously referred specifically to customs dogs and the assistance they provide? Of course, it is true that further clarification is needed in the case of dogs and the method is not a complete magic trick to solve the problems. However, it should be borne in mind that all testing methods have their own problems. I believe that we must look at all the cards and make every effort to keep society as safe as possible. That is why I would like to know what the government intends to do in concrete terms to ensure that this is not just an empty record, because the potential for dog diagnosis is enormous and should not be left aside and used up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u334	Representative Salmon, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u335	Mr President! On behalf of the committee, I can say that we discussed this diagnosis of corona dogs and the committee is not negative about it and certainly not the government. It was now more of a question, as in a few other matters relating to that objection, that we urgently wanted to bring this change into force and... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u338	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u339	Mr President! We now have an amendment to the Act on communicable diseases and partly a temporary amendment to this Chamber. It has been discussed in committee and the report has been received, and Mr Salmon has done a good job of opening up that whole report. To that extent, I would like to return to the fact that there were indeed four different topics here. One was that the proposal for a regulation to ensure the functioning of the social and health care system was made compulsory by the regional or national authorities to change the functioning of the social welfare and health care system. This point was very difficult and complex and partly overlapped with the Emergency Act. This paragraph was then deleted in committee because if there were such a situation that a department, such as the Social Services Unit, should be assigned to receive health care customers without having knowledge, experience, it would be quite risky and could endanger patient safety, and it would already be in very exceptional circumstances. Well, then there were these hygiene practices in this law, which are already largely in use, but now they are at the legal level, and that is a good thing. Then it has been suggested that the municipality or the Regional State Administrative Agency may close the premises for business or other activities intended for the use of customers or participants for a limited period, and this is a tough measure. And that is the last resort when it could be introduced, and there are separate criteria that must be met, as the President-in-Office, Mr Salmon, said earlier. One point then was this limitation of passenger numbers in passenger transport, which is also a big thing, for example in the case of air transport, where the number of passengers should be limited. Or if there should be restrictions on commuter traffic, in what way are those passengers counted? Is it worth it, and then, on the other hand, do we have to leave people at the stop? For example, during the daytime when there are fewer shifts and schoolchildren get out of schools, the public transport equipment is quite full, and we cannot think of leaving children there in the cold by the side of the road. In that sense, this obligation to wear a face mask in public transport would be a good tool for taking more passengers or perhaps keeping it in normal number of passengers, if this requirement to wear a face mask were to be taken into account by law. That is why the committee put a sentence in this report that the committee sees that the ministry should clarify the possibilities for transport service providers and other traders to require the use of face masks from their customers. The Committee on Transport and Communications also drew attention to this. In this context, I would also like to raise the issue of cultural actors, who would be well placed to organise cultural activities if they had the possibility of face masking, taking into account other security limits. It would be good if we could think about that too. So such opportunities could of course have been here more. Similarly, this corona dog activity, as Mr Keto-Huovinen pointed out: it is of course important that the training for dogs continues and it is possible to continue to use dogs, because they will not suddenly be obtained if such a situation occurs. The dog can never be necessarily 100 percent, but would like this sort of screening: when going to large traffic volumes, then could well be used and then specified by the test. There is no point in being so overstated or arrogant as to be unable to take advantage of them. Tools are needed in many ways, and therefore both corona dogs and facial masks are still important. And I would also like to point out here that this matter has been on the table for several months and it would have been possible to prepare for it if it had been desired, but the ministry and the government have a clear political objection here that they do not want to take this issue forward. The important thing that was taken up by the statement was that these external borders were not the source of the corona in Finland. Unfortunately, it has already leaked, but it is important that there are clear rules on how to get to Finland. Whether it is a test carried out within a certain period of time or at the border or a vaccine certificate — these possibilities should be assessed and the Ministry hastened to bring this bill. And then, in the event of an exceptional situation, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u340	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u341	Madam President! The chairman of our committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon, presented the committee's report thoroughly and there is nothing to add. That is why I am able to sum up my own message here in this three-minute speech. There was a very wide-ranging consultation here. I calculated that there were about 200 experts from the five different committees who were consulted. There have certainly been broader consultations in this House on many issues, but when we did here, however, with a number of periodic and certain additions to the Act on communicable diseases, this was really huge, it certainly was also necessary. After all, criticism has come to some extent from the most difficult corona peak in the late autumn, starting with why these articles have not been obtained before. Well, the government submitted its proposal before our part-session and, for example, we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as well as in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, then worked during the January part-session, and now here for the first week of work we have had this closed, which is a great thing. This is where the Emergency Act has been mentioned a few times, and I understand that the general thinking is now moving to the point where we want to save ourselves a great deal of time from declaring an exceptional situation and, as a result, activating certain articles of the Emergency Act. That Article 86 of the Emergency Act is now, in a certain way, to be used precisely when we removed that Article 9a, and then Article 118 is the one that will then be able to regulate more the movement of people and these issues, which we then managed to incorporate into this law. It must be remembered that this is a question of means. I think that the chairman of the committee was very keen to emphasise that, when there is such a public perception that these will come into force immediately or that something dramatic is starting to happen immediately, that is not the case, but that these are the means. But now we need to remember what the situation is where the means are needed. That's where I checked today's corona infection rates. Today, 438 new infections have been registered. The incidence rate for two weeks per 100,000 inhabitants is now 94 to 18 days ago it was 64. So in two and a half weeks it has risen by 50 percent. At the end of autumn, the highest incidence rate was 112, there at the beginning of December, and then, as I have heard, the introduction of the Emergency Act was seriously considered, so we in front of a serious place in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u342	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u343	Mr President! The interest rate situation is quite stable at the moment, but it is explosive and there is a real possibility of a significant worsening of the epidemic. A particular risk is that of a transformation virus that spreads more vigorously than the basic form, and now we are running a race against a modified and aggressively spreading virus. The progress of vaccinations and the summer ahead will bring relief to our waiting horizon, but the time for relief is not yet. Restrictive measures are therefore still needed and legislation must enable adequate measures to protect the health of the population and ensure the carrying capacity of health care. This legislative amendment gives authorities more territorial powers to prevent the spread of the virus. This change will make recommendations on hygiene and looseness mandatory. In addition, it will be possible to close high-risk facilities such as gymnasiums. These new powers, the possibilities of limitation, are now important. I hope we don't have to use them, but we might have to. However, I note that this law and these new powers alone do not solve anything, but there is still a need for caution, and if the situation becomes particularly bad, then the preparedness law is the tool. Mr President! The regulation of means of combating epidemics is a balance between preventing the spread of the disease and safeguarding the freedom to conduct a business. At the same time, while preventing the progression of the disease, efforts are being made to minimise the harm to traders. On the other hand, regulation also allows the business to continue. By providing for lighter closure restrictions and the gradual strengthening of measures and by curbing the spread of infectious disease, it is also possible to continue the business activity in society and, hopefully, to prevent wider social and economic closures. Health and the economy are not really against each other, although this is a balancing exercise, but the best way to combat the disease is to combat it as well as to combat it as well as to prevent it. In this context, I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the other committees and the authors of the opinions for their consideration of the draft law. This, as the chairman of the committee suggested, was the subject of a number of changes and clarifications in a very tight working schedule. As far as facial masks are concerned, facial masks are an important addition as one of the anti-emergency tools, but I do not see that we can give up other precautions with masks, and we can also see from other countries that masks are unfortunately not a panacea, although a good addition is.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u344	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u345	Mr President, värderade talman! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has completed its report on the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. I am particularly pleased that we received a result in committee that takes account of the rights of children and young people and that restricting the activities and hobbies of children and young people should always be a last resort. The restrictions now do not apply to sports and sports that take place outside, which seems particularly important now before skiing holidays this snowy winter. Nor will zoos be closed, except for those parts that are indoors. We have taken particular account of the well-being of children and young people in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u346	Mr President! This law is necessary, but there are some concerns about it. I myself was dealing with this draft law in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where we are thinking in particular about the situation in the business sector. After all, the purpose of this law is to reduce close contact, and one of the extremes, perhaps in a certain way too, is for the trader to have to close his premises for up to 14 days at a time. Everyone understands that in almost any sector it becomes quite quickly trouble for an entrepreneur when you do not receive income and yet have to pay wages and rents and other fixed costs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also took a position on this in such a way that, if the restriction lasts more than the maximum limit of one closure decision for 14 days, there is a reasonable compensation for financial losses. Well, now we have to consider what is the reasonable compensation, and that is what we are considering in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. One option is proposed as a form of cost support. After all, we have now had two different kinds of cost support here in Parliament, number one and number two. Both have had the problem of about 70% of those applications being rejected and this is largely due to the fact that the criteria have been quite strict. Among other things, they have required that turnover must have been reduced by at least 30 %, and the excess may then have been taken into account in these compensations. The aid must also have been at least EUR 2000. Now it is true that quite a few companies have been left without this support. Therefore, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we took the view that if this type of aid is not compatible with this type of aid, then we must find another possible form of aid to compensate traders for these losses. In particular, it is a concern that if these chains are many in a row, then there will be quite long periods of time when the trader does not receive any income at all. One thing to take into account is that this always leaves, as it were, 14 days of ownership for the entrepreneur, because there is, in principle, no compensation for that period. And then there is the fact, Mr President, that this does not take into account the claims of the end customers, for example, that if a person has a monthly card and does not get to the gym, then the customer may also have a claim to that gym operator. These matters were not taken up in this report, Mr President, but I am nevertheless pleased that:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u347	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u348	Irade fru talman! Jag har variety med och behandlat lagförslaget i grundlagsutskottet och variety med och godkänt utlåtandet till lagförslaget om ändringar av smittskyddslagen. De flesta ändringarna är temporära men utgör en inte helt okplicerad juridisk hemit. Därför har utskottet också hört många sakkunniga i ärendet. Grundlagsutskottet slår bland you give fast att de temporära ändringarna får vaa i kraft till maximalt den 30 juni, inte till den 31 December som regeringen föreslog. Det tauri följer helt den linjedragning som utskottet tidigare också gjort både med beredskapslagens förordningar och andra begränsningar för att säkerstalla att åtgärder som har effekter på grundlagsenliga ragtigheter inte kan vara i kraft längre än nödvändigt. Den ändringen har nu gjorts av social- och älsovårdsutskottet på ett kärkött. För tilfället pågår omfattande vaccineringar som förhopningsvis ska kunna öka takten i vår, och vi vet inte hur läget kommer vara i sommar. Förhopningsvis är det så bra att den rai lagen inte behöver förlängas utan att vi i ställett kan börja Leva mer normalt igen. Det kommer framtide utvisa, men riksdage vill ändå att man granskar det epidemiska läget mer ofta än mer sullan då man föreslår den arv nitrogens verktyg. Därför kommer de temporära ändringarna vara i kraft i cirka fyra månader, inte 10 månader som föreslagits. Om det finns fog att förlänga dem behövs i så fall ett now förslag till riksdage i Slutet av maj eller tidigt i trains. Själva lagförslaget handlar om att kunna göra många av dagens frivilliga rekommentationer till beslut från ansvariga smittskyddsmyndigheter. Det ger också öjligheter att begränsa en del verksamheter och maxantalet som kan samlas för vivi activiteter och på viviplatser, exempelvis köpcentrums allmänna utrymmen eller gym. Det ger också öjlighet att begränsa maxantalet i kollektiva fortskaffningsmedel med maximalt 50 percent. Det betyder att furornas kapacitet skulle begränsas med så mycket. Det är något som flera rederier redan har som frivillig begränsning i dag och som beslutats av dem själva. Det är ändå viktigt att undertryka att dessa begränsningar inte träder i kraft automatiskt, och jag hoppas själv att de inte naturalligtvis behöver användas alls. Lagen bara möjliggör att dessa åtgärder vidtas av ansvarig smittskyddsmyndighet. Det betyder också att det med dessa vöjligheter kommer mer ansvar för kommuner och för regionalförvaltningsverk. Riksdagen har inte en öjlighet att lägga in bet mot detta, Vilket ricksdagen har med beredskapslagen, utan ox delegeras nu makt temporärt till smittskyddsmyndigheter i enlighet med den regionala approach som man haft. På Åland är det frågan om Ålands landskapsregering eller någon anna av självstyrelsens myndigheter som får den rai uppgiften av lagen. För att man ska få använda sig av dessa begränsningar behöver vivi incidentstal gällande antal smide överskridas, 25 eller 50 per 100000 de cente 14 dagarna. Vissa kommuner och regionaler i Finland, exempelvis Åland, skulle i dag inte få ta i bruk några av dessa begränsningar effectsom smittoläget är så bra i områdena. På så vis säkerstaller man att inga begränsningar kan vidtas utan att det finns motiv för det. Att exempelvis kunna begränsa köpcentrums allmänna utrymmen, gym eller maxantalet på en färta har nämligen påverkan på grundlagsenliga rättigheter såsom äringsrätt och skydd av egendom, men kan begränsas med hehersyn till social tryghet och rätten till liv. Hur som helst undertryker grundlagsutskottet också att det är viktigt med ekonomisk compensation från staten till de verksamheter som i så fall dragbas, något också ekonomiutskottet har lyft upp, på samma sätt som till restaurantngerna i våras. Dessa begränsningar, ärade fru talman, får också tas i bruk på Åland, men enbart ifall landskapsregeringen vill anväda sig av verktygen, så även om kriterierna uppfylls kommer begränsningar inte börja gälla på Åland utan landskapsregeringens activa beslut. Det rauh följer således helt och hållet upplägget i den vanliga smittskyddslagen, något som man avviker från gällande regleringen av restaurangerna. Ur ett självstyrelsepolitiskitt perspectiveiv är regleringen om restaurangerna i practiceken mer complicerad och juridiskt avvikande än vad som iär föreslås då beslutsmakten i detta fall helt och hållet stanar på Åland. Okomplierade är den ox nitrogens lagförslag ändå inte Heller ur självstyrelserespektiv. Just därför hörde grundlagsutskottet Ålands landskapsregering i ärendet. Ur självstyrelsens perspectiv är det ur et mer theoreticalistikt avstamp intressant att diskutera ifall de raus ändringarna går in på självstyrelsens behörighet eller inte. Smittsamma sjukdomar är enligt självstyrelselage helt och hållet rikets lagstiftningsbehörighet, men är det också det om man utvidgar tillampningsomådet? Här kan det argumenteras på oliika sätt, men det är ändå en sak som inte grundlagsutskottet tar ställning till effectsom det inte är utskottets uppgift. Ifall man vill klargöra det måste man i så fall låta högsta domstolen, som enligt lagen är ansvarig för den saken, göra det. Grundlagsutskottet är ändå mån om att undertryka att det är självstyrelsen som på Åland är den myndighet som fattar activa beslut i frågan om eventuella åtgärder. Det rauta var något grundlagsutskottet fäste uppmärksamhet på också gällande begränsningarna om restaurangerna, där vi i utskottet inte såg några hinder för att de activa besluten om de begränsningarna också skulle fattas på Åland, av landskapsregeringen, och inte av statsrådet i Helsingfort. Här blir den beslutsmakten dock kvar på Åland, och landskapsregeringen avgör ifall man vill använda verktygen om smittoläget på Åland är så högt att lagen får användas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u349	Tack, värderade talman! I think it is quite a year now since these first cases of corona occurred in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u350	Mr President! I have been a lawyer and sometimes served in the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee for four years as chairman of my party's committee. But now I may not quite be able to take this constitutional aspect, but I am speaking a little more freely — but I hope to some extent I will also take part in the Constitution. In order to combat the corona virus, society must make many sacrifices and, in one way or another, all must participate in joint efforts to prevent the spread of the virus. However, all restrictive measures must, of course, take into account their wider impact, which can be very important for health and well-being and for the economy. This is the case, for example, for leisure activities for children and young people. Therefore, as far as possible, group hobbies for children and young people should be allowed, despite the pandemic, because their impact on the well-being of children and young people and families is beyond doubt. Mr President! The same applies partly to adult exercise activities. Adults should at least refrain from group exercise in the corona areas, but it would be important to allow exercise on their own. In light of current knowledge, the risk of infection is not very high in gyms, as long as distances are respected and hygiene is well cared for. During the winter season, Cels are often unpredictable in terms of outdoor exercise, and sometimes walking, running and skiing are challenging. For the sake of general endurance, well-being and mental health, it would also be important to leave opportunities for indoor exercise, such as gyms, tennis, badminton and other corona-friendly species. In this situation, I believe that closing private sports facilities would be a mistake, just as restricting the activities of young people. However, financial losses must be compensated for by entrepreneurs, if closures are reached.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u351	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u352	Mr President! We just have to keep fighting this virus. It is notable that many people are starting to get tired of it, and even the understatements have been heard, even today in this Chamber, but, as Mr Kiuru well said, we must continue to recognise and recognise the seriousness of this situation and the fact that, at least according to statistics, we are not going in a much easier direction, but vice versa. It is known, however, that relief is coming on the vaccine front and it is hoped that the vaccine coverage will increase at the rate expected and hoped for. Hopefully summer will also bring relief on the virus front. But we must continue to consider the means by which we can anticipate a worsening situation, and that is what this is all about. It is not a question of introducing drastic measures today and now, here and everywhere, but of empowering regional and local authorities to take forward rapid action and stricter restrictions. Of course, this in particular follows the government's hybrid strategy and goes through these steps step by step. And now, of course, this municipality or region in the phase of dispersal is central to what has now been said in this debate. In other words, in the distribution phase it could even be possible to close for two weeks the premises for business or other activities intended for the use of customers and participants, where there is a special possibility of transmission, e.g. sports facilities. Of course, the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health always have to think about health safety in the first place, and yet we were able to identify in committee a great deal of the concerns and concerns that the various committees sent us in their opinions and what came up in numerous expert hearings. Of course, what has been said in this Chamber today is the affairs of children and young people and the fact that if they are cut back on hobby activities, how can this be taken into account? The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore considers it important that the possibility of access to leisure activities for children and young people should be ensured in the implementation of restrictions, taking into account health safety, and it is important that information on the impact of restrictions on children and young people should be collected continuously and the assessment of the impact on children should be strengthened when these restrictions are taken. We all have concerns about the economy, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also made a proposal on this, as well as on border security. There are many things that are felt to be of mutual importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u353	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u354	Mr President! I would like to start by thanking the very good speeches made here by a number of Members, including Mr Kauma and Mr Strand and so on, and also drawing attention to this aspect of the industry. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes in its report that ‘the situation in Finland has been moderate sincethe beginning, both in terms of levels of infection The question is, therefore, that these amendments will provide more tools if necessary, but not only if necessary, but, as the committee also added here on the subject of traffic restrictions, only if the conditions of the law are met and this is necessary to combat the epidemic. These are not, therefore, such that, just in case, at least, it is not going to spread, but there must be a situation where it is necessary. It must be borne in mind that using these restrictions to the extreme, if you go in and shut down business premises, it is not only economic but also, if group sports facilities and gyms are closed, a detrimental effect on our well-being, people's well-being and public health. That is why we should now assume that we all hope that we do not need to introduce these and that the epidemic will remain so moderate in Finland that we do not have to use these tools in any way, which restrict business activity. But if they are to be used, then this proposal for a statement is that the government must go on to build either in connection with cost support or as a separate instrument, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states in its opinion, so that, at least in situations where closure is more than two weeks, reasonable compensation is paid for the losses incurred by the business community. All in all, I would like to say for myself about this interest rate situation that I would like to see a common message from us now, too, that we should hold out for a while, now that we need restrictive measures, but there seems to be a better situation in the future. So it is not a message that we are about to hit some hard pipe, hard restrictions. They will only be taken if they are necessary, because all the constraint talks and speeches about the need to toughen up the line now, to create businesses and entrepreneurs who are now in enormous distress, to increase uncertainty and pain, and that is something we should not add, but to create hope now. We still need restrictive measures, the pandemic is not over, but there is a brighter future ahead — towards spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u355	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Salmon said earlier, as chairman of the committee, that there was no negative attitude towards interest rate dogs, but that the inclusion of interest rate dogs would have delayed this entry into force of the law. As I said earlier, dog diagnosis is a huge potential, and it has already been seen that although we have vaccines, this situation is not quite over, and this will hardly be the last pandemic either. I would also like to ask what concrete steps the government has taken to ensure that dog diagnostics can be part of the hybrid strategy now and in the future, and whether legislative measures have been taken to ensure the conditions for the operation of official dogs, because, on the basis of the information that I have received, inter alia: Customs had already started and training progressed well there, but it was stopped because there were no jurisdictional provisions in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u357	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u358	Madam President! I have taken the floor here simply to ensure that our amendments to the section do not go unnoticed when I did not know whether there would then be a detailed discussion. Can I make these changes here?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u359	Wait a minute. Just a little clarification here. — In other words, this reading will be suspended and the detailed proposals will be made tomorrow before the vote. So we will suspend this sitting in a moment, once the list of speakers has been completed, and tomorrow we will continue this first reading and then we will vote. — And then Mr Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u360	Madam President! At the beginning of the debate there was also a rather colorful debate on the need for masks. Fortunately, this is no longer the case, but I would like to ask again whether there has been a broader debate on the need for a mask in preparation and whether, if the situation is really going to get worse, there is a potential for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u361	And now, Minister Kiuru, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u362	Mr President! I would also like to thank Parliament for the opportunity to thank you. Five committees did a huge job and it was done outside this traditional session. Every Member of Parliament who has stretched out in these pursuits has indeed been very good at the cause of the country. I am grateful and glad that these new powers are now in place. We have already started preparing this legislation in the summer, and all the autumn these details were then pursued after the general presentation of October, which was also made to the opposition. After that, we finally got this here in Parliament in December, which reflects the fact that, from the point of view of necessity and proportionality, it was a success, but it did require very careful and time-consuming preparation, and it is great that we are in this situation today. These proposed changes, which are here, are precisely those which are still of a more precise nature, and in that respect I am very pleased that we have now got this proposal out of here today. These efforts, which are here, are also essential observations of what needs to be done. As far as border law is concerned, we will bring this proposal as soon as possible. There has also been a breakthrough today in the preparation, so I assume that I will be able to bring you these good news quite soon. As far as the continuation of this is concerned, there was a great deal of speculation in this debate about the timetable for implementing these matters. First of all, the task is to update this hybrid strategy, which will provide all these existing restrictions and guidance for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in the field. That hybrid strategy will be updated as soon as we get this whole thing out. Today I realised that next week we could be in a situation where perhaps this would happen on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u363	Congressman Ovaska. — There was no intervention. — Mr Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u364	Madam President! Infectious diseases are always serious and must be taken seriously. This legislation has been a major challenge and quite unanimously we have moved forward. Perhaps in the future I would wish that if there were crises like this and we had to go to big things like this, then at the very beginning the Minister of Responsibility would be appointed to such events. Now, in this corona era, I would have liked to have had a minister of responsibility appointed as soon as possible. It could have helped at some point. Maybe it's a wish for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u365	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 1/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Statement by Mr Kymäläinen, Chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u366	Madam President! The Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with the draft law on the scrapping premium in an effective and timely manner in order to bring this change into force as soon as possible. The proposal proposes that the conditions for granting the scrapping premium be specified by adding Article 2 of the Act. A new article under which only one scrapping premium may be granted for the purchase of one new passenger car, an electric bicycle, a seasonal public transport ticket or a combined public transport service with a right to travel. The committee notes in its report that it deeply regrets that the regulatory interpretations of the scrapping premium by the public authorities have created unclear and unpleasant situations, particularly for those who apply for the scrapping premium, but also for those who sell cars. Madam President! According to a report received from the committee's rapporteur, the law in force is sufficiently unambiguous in terms of its wording and does not contain any margin of interpretation, taking into account the whole of the regulation and its purpose. As has already been pointed out in the referral debate, the explicit purpose of regulation has been one scrapping premium for the purchase of a single car. There seems to be agreement on this, at least in this house, and in the same way I already did for previous scrapping premiums in 2015 and 2018. However, in its report, the committee considers it justified, taking into account the overall situation and the interpretations made by the competent authority, that the regulation should now be specified in the way proposed in the proposal. In its report, the committee stresses that the interpretation of the law and the guidance given to citizens by the competent authority must be consistent and in all respects so that a citizen or an undertaking acting in good faith does not have unreasonable consequences for interpretation and decisions. The committee also attaches great importance to ensuring that the legal protection of scrapping premium applicants and car companies is properly ensured. Madam President! The Committee also considers it important to assess whether there is a need for change in the regulation of vehicle registrations and their reporting obligations. This is due to the fact that, according to the study received, some of the applications for scrapping premiums have been unclear. For this reason, it is good to review the legislation as a whole in the future and to assess whether some aspects of regulation should be developed, for example with regard to the regulation of registrations relating to change of ownership. According to a report received by the committee, Traficom is now intended to communicate with all applicants who have applied for lump sums and to ensure that all applicants have the correct knowledge of how the process is progressing and what rules are applied. As far as legislation is concerned, everything that can be done has been done and it is now up to the competent authorities to take care of the matter. The committee considered that it was necessary to deal with the draft law with an urgent timetable in order to bring it into force as soon as possible. In its report, the committee considers the proposal necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes that the draft law be adopted without amendment. Mr President! The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u367	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u368	Madam President! This government proposal and the committee's report are very necessary but, at the same time, very sad, because this has now caused quite a mess for the individual citizens and the car companies. And why is that? This has been due to the fact that the competent authority, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency, Traficom, has issued instructions to citizens which did not comply with the original law. Of course, Traficom is the competent authority, but of course it would have liked to have been used by the executive agency, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to guide this much earlier to ensure that such a mess would not have occurred. But either way, we have to look ahead now, and, as the chairman of the committee has said here, there is great concern about the individual citizens and the car dealers who have received incorrect instructions from the authorities and acted accordingly — of course, in good faith. On the criminal court side this kind of wrong advice given by the authority may even be the basis for forgiveness, and when criminal justice is compelling, hard justice and this is like soft justice, so now would wish that Traficom would bear its responsibility, which it deserves, and also should take care that these individual citizens and car companies receive justice, precisely those who have acted in good faith. Of course, there have been doubts here that some have acted fraudulently, and that is not the case, of course. Now that we received a report from Traficom on how they were going to act, I did not think it was very good enough to get in touch. Yes, we must take a spoon in a beautiful hand and say that there has been a mistake and that the citizens and car companies who have acted in good faith in accordance with the instructions of the authorities are entitled to no financial damage. It is absolutely scandalous if these people have to start a judicial process that may take years and may cost a lot of money. It can't be like this. Yes, these people who have done the right thing, according to the instructions of the authorities, must definitely be compensated for the damage they have suffered — not so much money. And now, after this government's presentation, this law is perfectly clear that there are no two words about how to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u369	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u370	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, this law currently under discussion is quite unanimous and in the sense that it is necessary to correct this unclear situation or confusion, although it is worth remembering that the law on scrapping premiums in use in 2015 and 2018 was then relatively similar in terms of the content of the text, as far as these rules — now the latest had some exceptions to these usage requirements — and in that sense it may even be extremely strange where the authority went on to change this previous interpretation, which has been, in this way. But as has already been well heard here in the two previous speeches, we must now look ahead and think about what is happening now. Madam Speaker! I believe that, following the adoption of this law, the fundamental issue here is the legal protection of the citizens and the way in which these citizens are dealt with, as Mr Tolvanen mentioned, have acted in good faith. It is good to distinguish between these persons who have chosen to use this law and who have committed or made possible errors. That is a separate matter, and no one is suggesting that these applications should be accepted if the rules have been breached. But how to deal with law - abiding persons who have followed the instructions of the authorities, oral and written, and who have acted for this sincere purpose, possibly already wrecked those cars and possibly ordered, committed themselves to getting a new car, it is now everything a and o. With a quick search, I couldn't find a very similar situation. I think that the whole and the fair must be taken into account. What is neither right nor reasonable would seem to be a law. I must say that, in this case, this kind of road, which Mr Tolvanen also painted, that if citizens were forced to seek justice through justice and brutality, it sounds very, very unreasonable. I would also like the competent authority, Traficom, to take responsibility for this, to admit the mistakes that have been made, at least not yet been made. I very much hope that these contacts will not lead these citizens in the path of failing previous promises, as it were, and that this is the only way forward. We must now think of the citizens, and especially of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u371	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u372	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Vi behandlar scrotningspremie som beviljas under fjolåret, under 2020, och 2021, och rai har det ju variant ett bekymmer med tolkningarna kring hur många scrotningspremier man ha. Det är beklagligt, att man har kut ha flera bilar, och nu har då den raus precieringen gjorts att man kan få en scrotningspremie. Det auri borde ju ha varat från första början, och det är väldigt beklagligt att det aur har tollkats på flera jätt. Med tanke på invånarnas rättsskydd är det Jätteviktigt att myndigheterna agerar på ett förtroligt och bra sätt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u373	Madam President! As the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications presented this report, the report is unanimous. I think it is very good to have a single word to clarify a law. All in all, the scrapping premium law that we currently have is also unambiguous, just as the representative of the Ministry of Transport and Communications stated in the expert consultation that the current law is sufficiently unambiguous in its wording and does not contain any margin of interpretation in terms of the whole of the regulation and its purpose. I am very surprised how another authority, which in practice interprets the law, can have a different view of the matter, and the fact that the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency, Traficom, has come into a different interpretation through pages, emails and other forms of guidance seems really bizarre. The citizens and car companies have indeed been put to the fore in these matters when they have become the so-called 'difference' cases, that is to say, several cars have been scrapped in the belief that they will receive a scrapping premium for each car. I sincerely hope that when this law comes into force, then everything will be clear and can be moved forward. But what has happened along the way, in my opinion, should also be clarified: it is within Traficom itself that what has happened and also with the Ministry of Transport and Communications whether there has been any confusion in the exchange of emails or elsewhere. It is not just a matter for one ministry or another, but together we must find out. And what has also come out here in the previous speeches, as Mr Tolvanen has pointed out, I also think it is important that citizens and car companies who have acted sincerely in accordance with the guidelines and guidelines should not suffer in this matter. I do not think it should be brought to court. If it goes to court, no one wins except lawyers, lawyers. It's the only way there's gonna be any winners. I personally hope that this issue will be properly clarified and that the citizens and the car companies who have acted sincerely in accordance with the guidelines will be on the right track and will not suffer in this regard. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u374	Representative Kärnä — gone. Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u375	Madam President! I prepared a rather long text for this, but it does seem that the speeches have been so good that I think I am going to leave some of them unsaid. There is now much to be said about the principle of the protection of trust, how people have acted with good faith in this direction. I would also like to make it clear to you that now that I have received a number of messages from many of those who have participated in this scrapping premium, these are the guidelines for multi-difference — mainly from Traficom, but they are also from the people of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. In the past, I may have given the most striking example: it was said that 30 cars can be scrapped with one car in mind, where the customer had asked, and it has been confirmed, and it is in writing. But to whom does this matter belong, Madam President? ‘On the other hand, the Council of State The Government has 12 ministries. Each ministry shall be responsible for the preparation of matters and the proper functioning of the administration within its field of activity for the Government.’; I have a feeling here that we want to wash hands and bounce this, but I think that this time clearly draws together who this thing belongs to. One administrative branch of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom. We are now dealing with the law on the scrapping premium, which specifies the law. The reason for this is the interpretation of both Traficom's and the ministry's officials and the instructions that a citizen may use several scrapping premiums for the purchase of a single low-emission car by scrapping several cars. The only problem now is what happens to citizens and car dealers who have traded for a low-emission car using several scrapping premiums in good faith before this law becomes more specific.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u376	Congressman Sankelo — gone. Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u377	Tack, värderade talman! Vi diskuterar alltså en ändring av lagen om scrotningspremie för personbilar.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u378	Madam President! Indeed, I repeat what has been said on many occasions about this, both in this debate and in the debate on referrals: this is, above all, a sad example of how the purpose of the law can be misinterpreted, and it results in unacceptable consequences for many of them, both for the applicants for the scrapping premium and then for the legal protection of companies. Let me remind you once again that, as we were informed in the hearing in that committee, the law is already clear in the opinion of the corresponding ministry, the preparatory ministry, and should not allow for any interpretation other than that of a single certificate for the purchase of a single car. But for one reason or another, we have now done something different, and that is why, in the interests of certainty, we have made this clarifying legislation, on which the committee has a unanimous opinion. We, as a committee, do not want to be faced with a similar situation in which we have to correct our clear will and clarify the law in so far as it is not expressly prohibited by the law, but we want to be able to rely on the competent authorities to interpret the law as the legislator intended to interpret the law. I have already said in that presentation that everything that can be done with regard to legislation has now been done, and it will be up to the competent authorities to deal with this matter in the future. However, I strongly believe that this issue needs to be investigated, both for Traficom and for the ministry, and as a committee we hope to have the clearest possible and comprehensive picture of this issue in the future, so that similar situations can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u379	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u380	Irade fru talman! Vi diskuterar ändringen av lagen om scrotningspremier för personbilar och en technicalk ändring för att rätta till en felktighet eller en tolling som Traficom har gjort och som variety estrot lagstiftarens avsikt och som nu bara kommer möjliggöra att man helt enkelt kan skrota en bil för att få åtnjuta den är förmånen. Det är är en mycket motiverad ändring och det har variantt mycket bra anföranden tuuri tidigare i kväll, för det är viktigt att säkerstalla att de raus pengarna som budgeteras av ricksdagen äcker till att så många som möjligt ska kunna åtnjuta den här skrotningspremie så att vi får maximalt många nya milöväliga bilar eller carr på vägarna och att man inte riskar få en sådan situation att vist privatpersoner börjar panta bilar på samma stät som somman pantar tomlas ellertomburkar. Det är inte vad man har avsett med den oxrotningspremie. På samma sätt som det också har lyfts upp i debatten är det viktigt att man kuntot lita på mendigheter, och vid sidan av att man nu gör den här preciringen från utskottet sida, enhälligt från riksdagens sida, så är det också viktigt att man för en discussion med berörda myndigheter om hur en sådan iär typ av tolkningsproblem har uppst fråt första början, ettersom utskottet också bedömer att lagtexten börjjan vard tylgten på tärgten pörgten punk.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u381	Madam President! Indeed, we must look ahead now, and, as I said, we do not need any expensive time-consuming trials here, but Traficom must deal with what they have to do. They've made a mistake, and they have to pay for the damage. But then the second point that has now been made in Mr Mäenpää's speech is, in my view, worrying. After all, we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have already decided in principle that we should take this matter into consideration as to how Traficom and the Ministry of Transport and Communications have acted, but at least I did not get the impression that the Ministry had given any instructions on this matter. This is at least a new matter for me, if this is true, as Mr Mäenpää said, that you have received or you have seen a message in which the Ministry would have specifically given instructions on this bundling, that it would be allowed. I don't know if I got it right. So Traficom has, but if the Ministry has, then we really need to find out what happened here, and the facts are digging up. It's in everyone's best interest. And if we cannot do that as a committee, then we have the law enforcement authorities who can do it. But it really needs to be cleared up, for the sake of legal certainty for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u382	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u383	Madam President! To that extent, I would like to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications for the fact that I believe that you have managed to squeeze the spirit of this Chamber into this report, which was expressed by the Members of Parliament. So much I want to tell you here that I know at least one case — I do not know how many of them there are, but there is such a case — that one family has been able to scrap the father's car, mother's car, daughter's car and two old parents' cars in the yard who have met these criteria for the car, and when they have gone to buy a new car, they have been told that only one gets this reward. Although they have not dared to order a new car now when they do not know where the law is going, I would hope that in Traficom they will be able to use such common sense in such a case that they have been shriveled to scrap the cars but have not dared to order a new one because of this confusion. Nothing, thank you, but the Committee on Transport and Communications for this draft report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u384	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-09-ps-5.u385	Madam President! This bill is very small, but it has major implications, as has also been noted in this debate. One word can make a difference to a big thing. All in all, as I said in my previous speech, I hope that this will go well and quickly forward, and I would also like to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications very quickly, in one practical consultation, for the preparation of the matter and for the completion of the report. The report is short and succinct, and it has also taken very good account of this perspective of the citizens, which must take place in the future. This also shows that it is possible to act quickly here in Parliament when the need arises. That's a good thing. But when we have discussed what has happened in the past, during this current law in force — what instructions have been received from the Finnish authorities, whether they have been received by telephone or received by e-mail, or there have also been instructions on Traficom's website, which have been partially deleted and put back some new instructions — so in Finnish society, citizens must be able to rely on the instructions and advice of the authorities on how to act. It seems amazing that the authorities have received contradictory instructions, which have been so clear in practice about how to proceed and then something has happened. I myself have also received a huge amount of e-mail and phone calls from citizens who have wrecked up to 40 and 60 cars — a car enthusiast who has collected cars in his day — in the belief that each car will receive its scrapping fee, and then have ordered a new car. If he now suffers here, that he will receive only one scrapping premium, then I personally hope that this will not happen, but that our society will also be responsible for it if the authorities become contradictory instructions or the law has been misinterpreted by the authorities. I personally hope that citizens and car companies will not suffer here.
