ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u1	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of 3. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 14/2021 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Treaty and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session of 9 November 2021. In the debate, Sari Essayah Ano Turtiainen has proposed that the agreement and the bill be rejected. In addition, Vilhelm Junnila, supported by Juha Mäenpää, has tabled three statements of objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u2	Proposals for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u3	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u4	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 27/2021 will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law. The debate was closed at the plenary session of 9 November 2021. In the debate, Sari Essayah Peter Östman has proposed that the agreement be rejected. In addition, with the support of Sari Essayah Ano Turtiainen, the debate has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u5	Proposals for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u6	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session of 9 November 2021. In the debate, Rami Lehto, supported by Jukka Mäkynen, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u7	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 2 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would point out that there is a bit of a mumble going on here at the moment, so if there are internal meetings, I would ask you to keep them outside this room. — Debate, Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The fourth draft amending budget this year shows the good pace of the economy at this very moment. We are rapidly rising from the corona pit, and confidence in the economy is still strong in both homes and businesses. At the very least, the spiral of costs which is still tightening monetary policy does not appear to be an immediate threat, but inflation should be monitored. Gross domestic product is expected to grow by 2.9 per cent next year. In other words, Europe is at a high rate of growth. How good is the economic situation reflected in this fourth draft amending budget? Well, it appears that billions are moving to the right side of the line, so to speak: the deficit is decreasing and not increasing with this. Thus, the economy has recovered faster than expected and better than expected. This year's deficit is now around 12.2 billion, with an estimated 11.7 billion in debt — still large but still smaller than originally estimated. Tax revenue will increase by 1.5 billion and expenditure will decrease by around 250 million. Your turn for the better has happened. Expenditure will continue to decrease despite the fact that the amending budget still includes significant interest rate costs: EUR 100 million will be earmarked for the fifth cost support proposed by the Government. This year's compensation — i.e. full compensation for this year's diminishing revenue — requires an increase of EUR 40 million in order to achieve the level of compensation already approved by Parliament, i.e.: So the situation was even worse than anticipated. In addition, nearly EUR 14 million is proposed to secure regional air links in the middle of the corona period. Ensuring access to different parts of Finland is important for the Government. The police budget will also be increased by more than EUR 30 million in order to safeguard their activities — this is what Parliament has been talking about here a lot. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance will jointly launch an external study on the use of police appropriations and the factors affecting the adequacy of appropriations. The report will be handed over to the ministries at the end of January. Mr President! Although the amending budget still includes large interest payments, we are entering a new phase. The ongoing growth spurt is linked to the break-down of pent-up demand. Once you've got your sock covered, you'll be able to use it now. Vaccination has progressed and restrictions on business have been lifted. Finland has been opened and should remain open. Economic policy must also be geared towards a new gearbox. We must be able to reform in such a way that we can create the conditions for a positive cycle of growth. It is essential for the interests of Finns and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u15	I'm gonna pretend they want to go to the debat, so we're gonna start the debat. I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button to ask for the floor. — This debate will be launched by Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u16	Mr President! Security is an important issue for all of us. That is why it is important that police resources are now secured. It's been a strong common will. A solution was also found to finance organisations that work very valuablely, because they also save costs in other services in society. But, Mr President, as important as these are, perhaps the most important news of this amending budget is that indebtedness will be reduced by more than two billion in the past and expenditure will be reduced. This reflects the fact that the chosen line seems to work, and when much has been said about debt, Finland is among the euro countries that, during the interest rate period, have least increased relative debt. Only three euro countries have managed to manage their debt better than Finland during the corona period. Let's keep this line.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u17	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lindtman, you are quite right that the police were given an allowance because of the enormous pressure, but as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am disappointed that we have been pointing out the state of the rule of law for years. Because that is not a matter of course. Basic funding would be needed, for example, for courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Sanctions Agency permanently 20 million per year. I don't see any of this money here. There are, of course, positive minor additions here, and the majority of private legal aid agencies in particular. I am asking you, and I am asking you now, the advocates of the rule of law, who are going to the world to talk about this: for what has the Finnish rule of law been forgotten? Minister, I would also like to ask you for an answer. Why isn't the money ever coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u19	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u20	Madam President! The economy is growing record well, employment is growing, although you have done little about it, Mr President. Now we have to ask why, Mr Saarikko, in the next year and still in the election year, you have decided to break this framework for a good and stable economy. What is the reason for this? As you listened to the Minister for Finance, Saarikko felt that he was speaking here today to Prime Minister Marin and the Social Democrats in Parliament, and on the other hand the feeling was that the centre would be in the government. Minister of Finance Saarikko, you admitted that you are now living on the money of the children's piggy banks. Do you think this is the right thing to do? Take a quickie on the kids when their money's already gone bad?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u22	Congressman Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u26	Congressman Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u27	Mr President! As the Minister has already pointed out in his presentation, the sustainability of the Finnish economy depends on how we can invest in sustainable growth. Of course, it is particularly important to ensure the safety of Finland, as is now the case in this draft amending budget. At the same time, we must, of course, look further into the picture. Here, the opposition strongly criticised the debt. Of course, we also need to consider how young and future generations can cope with debt. In this respect, competence is essential. The Finnish Institute for Economic Research has pointed out that if the situation is not addressed now, my parents’ age group is becoming the most educated in Finland. That is why it is essential that we also have opportunities to invest in knowledge, research, development, innovation – the sustainable growth from which future resources arise, and where we can then increase tax revenue and also cope with those debt payments. This issue therefore needs to be looked at more broadly than simply through it,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u28	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u29	Mr President! The Government’s crisis economy policy has been the most successful in Finland’s economic history. [Heckling] Nevertheless, long-term unemployment has increased as a result of the interest rate, and this needs to be taken into account. We remember the recession in the '90s, the terrible treatment, the mistakes that were made. Employment never rose, unemployment did not fall to the level before the recession. The people who were then displaced and their children are still not only a human problem but also an economic burden, which is why we will have to take up debt next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u30	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u31	Irade the Talman! Till Skillnad mot vad ledamot Meri rain så har ju faktiskt justitieministeriet fått ett märkbart tillaggsanslag.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u32	Madam President! It was a good thing that the police were now invested in this, but it would be even more important to get these contributions into the framework so that the police would not be forced to plan their activities short-term. After all, the police launched a systematic campaign to reach MPs in all the police institutions, and I believe that it was very important that we now see this 30 million here. And when Mr Meri took into account, in my opinion, the important point, that is, the state of this judiciary, the prosecutors and us in court, should the judges and prosecutors also launch similar campaigns to ensure that this is observed?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u33	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u34	Mr President! Mr Heinos and Mr Zyskowicz in particular must be pointed out that even a capitalist scientist recognizes that this red-green government has handled the economy and the corona crisis well, and a European comparison proves this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u37	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u38	Honorable Speaker! I wondered when that presentation said that the child’s piggy bank was in constant use. On the one hand, it is the case, but on the other hand, it is not: from the point of view of central government finances, yes, we are probably a little too much in debt in relation to the growth of the national economy, but it must always be taken into account that it does not... The government should always take on debt every year, but the national economy must rise faster than it does in order to break this debt ratio. Somehow we would have to get a growth leap into the national economy. The children's piggy bank is not in continuous use: If we look at 2020, the saving rate for households was 5.7. It is inconceivably hard in such a year, when usually it has been something like 0.5. This will result in our productivity and R & D investments starting to rise and the economy leaping upwards,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u39	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u40	Madam President! At the moment, Finland's economy is growing well, and Mr Koskinen does not give us any problem in admitting and saying that this government has succeeded well in combating the corona in many places – yes, there are also failures, but it is perfectly natural for such an unpredictable virus. But, as Minister Saarikko said, much needs to be done to boost and sustain the growth of this economy, and I had the same feeling as Mr Heinos, who spoke just now, that in this respect the minister was talking to his own ministers. The problem with this government is that it is unable to set priorities, that is, expenditure. I don't remember this reckless increase in expenditure and even the cancellation of small savings decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u42	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u43	Madam President! Indeed, the government has handled the corona well, and it has also become a confidence in our economy. At the moment our employment rate is at its peak, 73.8, has found a new peak, but we still have something to do with 78%. Of course, we still have this problem, and there is still a lot to do about it. The Minister of Finance has previously said — I think he was on budget 2 — that he could when this was the last corona budget, but he has not. We still have a lot of business in this budget with regard to the corona, including the implementation of the fifth round of applications for cost support and so on, and so on, it will have to be managed. It is hoped, however, that this growth spurt mentioned by the Minister will be brought to growth and will be supported by various measures. Among other things, this highlighted research activity and good confidence in this business will also be strengthened by this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u44	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u45	Mr President! In the amending budget, public finances are strengthened to the extent that they must be recognised by the government for the success of economic policy. A rapid return to the growth path has been possible to a large extent with a timely recovery in a sufficiently significant scale. The situation of interest rates has been managed by sufficiently determined, timely measures. This has also supported the recovery of the economy. The amending budget reduces the need for net government borrowing and strengthens public finances, and I believe that the main news of this amending budget is that tax revenues are increasing and unemployment security expenditure is falling. The largest single new item of expenditure relates to the fifth round of business cost support. This is important, but I personally would like to raise a small detail here in the amending budget, which is also a question of interest compensation. The amount is less than EUR 7 million. There are many other areas of activity mentioned here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u46	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u47	Mr President! There will be no growth if there are no workers, and at the moment I think the shortage of labour is probably the worst bottleneck of growth anywhere in Finland. This is also the case in Eastern Finland. You raised this education policy, Minister of Finance, so I ask the government to take a position on the fact that the organisers of vocational education and training want the right to organise qualifications in Eastern Finland in English. There are dozens of them in Southern Finland, so can you tell everyone in this room where this is based that there are no English-language qualifications in Eastern Finland, even if there is a need and companies need a foreign-language labour force? This would be a wish that this should now be arranged as soon as possible, so that they can obtain those permits.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u48	Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u52	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u53	Madam President! Mr Finance Minister, as chairman of the Tampere Police Association, I would like to thank you in particular for this 30 million which has already been presented several times in the Chamber, which was lacking in the police budget. I would also like to add, with interest, that when it comes to the police and the judiciary, I hope that you will also take into account the prison care department, the prison authorities — there is also a considerable shortage in these matters. And did I hear correctly: when we talked about 30 million, did you say more than 30 million, Minister of Finance? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u54	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u55	Madam President! As a Lapp Member of Parliament, of course, I would like to thank you for these few amendments to the transport delegation, which the government has done in connection with Simon and Kemi's projects. Then, to this debate on public finances that has been held here: indeed, at the beginning of the government, it was assumed that, with the employment rate rising to 75%, public finances would be in balance. Now, despite the interest rate, the government is likely to reach the 75% employment rate, but the public finances are not balanced, and this is, of course, the concern that what has happened here over the last few years — even though employment is rising, it will also run away from the objective of our budgetary balance. How do the Minister for Finance and the Government think: how, then, would public finances be balanced in the spirit of the Government Programme that it would be balanced at the end of the parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u56	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u57	Thank you, Madam President. It was a pleasure to listen to Mr Saariko's speech on many points, and I believe that here, both the government and the opposition can largely agree with these scenarios for the future. But it is a pity that these talks are not now in sync with the kind of policy the government has pursued. In other words, despite this upturn, we still owe billions of our debts next year and have historically broken the framework, and, just as colleagues have pointed out here, it has not been possible to keep the smallest savings decisions. But now it is really important that we work together to consider how to sustain this growth. How can it be prevented that this is not just a short-term bubbly? After this government has tightened the taxation of housing, movement and labour during this government term, would it be possible, at the end of this government period, to reduce income tax rates so that, through the increase in the purchasing power of citizens, this growth can continue to be achieved and maintained?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u59	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u60	Mr President! I would like to raise the point on vaccination donations from this supplementary budget. Thank you very much for the fact that Finland’s vaccination donations and the dispatch of surplus vaccinations ordered have started, as far as I know, to Côte d’Ivoire. In order to increase the global vaccination coverage to more than 70%, which has been sought, this should be continued rapidly. We cannot expect items that might even grow old here, and we must also contribute not only to these donations but also to this financing of the Covax programme. As has been said, this pandemic will not be over here until it is under global control. Thank you also for taking into account basic art education. Indeed, this additional budget proposal also includes these interest-rate subsidies there. One thing that would be good and would also be a climate action would be to secure the conditions for public transport to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u61	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u62	Mr President! The police budget has been discussed here, and indeed the pressure of the opposition, the police and the citizens helped in this matter, and in the autumn budget debate the funds were increased by 10 million and now this 30 million deficit has finally been filled. Perhaps this could also raise the issue that everyone could ask himself: is this course of action the right one, where those who make the loudest noise receive the money?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u63	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u64	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Vi håller så småningom på att få grepp om coronapandemin som på många sätt påverkat vår economi. I den nu presenterade prognosis antar man inte längre att en öjlig försämring av epidemiläget begränsar ekonomins återhämtning. Det är bra, aven om öppnandet av samhället sketch långsammare än man trodde i somras.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u65	Mr President! Indeed, one can agree with the praises that have been expressed here from Minister Saariko's speeches on the economic outlook and its challenges. However, there are a few speeches that have to be addressed. Here, among other things, Mr Saramo said that Finland is now growing at the top of Europe. In fact, when you look at the Commission's latest summer forecast, Finland's economy is expected to grow more slowly from all euro countries, both last year and this year. [Jussi Saramo’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u66	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u67	Mr President! That is what has happened now when I see this amending budget as tax revenue is increasing, expenditure is falling and borrowing is decreasing by over two billion. I think it is an expression of what has been done, and it is an indication of a good economic policy that works. In my study and when I came here, I wondered if this equation would at last be good enough for the assembly in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u68	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u69	Mr President! Many representatives of the government parties have praised economic growth and the extent to which government policy plays a role in this. However, just as Mr Multala said earlier, according to the latest forecast by the EU Commission, Finland's economy is growing most slowly in the EU countries at the moment. So we cannot just look at the moment where we are right now, but we must also look forward. And the situation seems to be getting worse for Finland from now on. In the long term, of course, this is not just about economic growth; it is about this debt ratio. We in the Assembly have therefore argued that this should create a sort of debt anchor, a level of ambition for debt and GDP that the government would set itself. To this end, of course, we need employment measures in practice, so that we can reach these levels of ambition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u70	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u71	Mr President! The good recovery of the economy from the interest rate must be supported by all means. We must now systematically continue on the road to a business-friendly economic and tax policy. Continued cost support will support the most affected industries, such as tourism and restaurants. The increase in the tax income estimate reduces the need for net borrowing and contributes to the recovery of the economy. The low interest rate we have enjoyed has generated issuance gains in connection with the issuance of loans, so the debt management items are now worth more than half a billion euros. The cost support of companies, the police, basic art education and the extension of the right to labour market support for entrepreneurs are examples of the very necessary expenditure increases in this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u72	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u73	Madam President! It was now seen that we non-governmental parliamentarians cannot just march. Just a little while ago, the government was making cuts to the police for $30 million, and we raised quite a bit here in Parliament. Now you have corrected this and I hope that, in future, when we criticise your spending, you will not always give the same argument that why you only criticise the government's proposals. We criticise the fact that, as an opposition, it is our job to pay attention to the things that are wrong. We have now spent weekends and weekends in the provinces under the leadership of the Finns, and there the clear message has been that the price of gas is far too high. Here's the next thing we're gonna make a noise about. You have more than EUR 1 billion in development aid in this budget. When are we going to get relief for people in rural areas so that they can really afford to move around? The price of gas is far too high, and you decide on taxation. Here's a little something for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u74	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u75	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his excellent introduction to this amending budget. After all, we will have about EUR 250 billion in gross national income this year, and the fact that tax revenues and other government revenues will increase by about two billion, that is to say less than one per cent of GDP, is an excellent situation. What do you have to do about it? Many needs have already been listed in this Chamber, to which we would now like to allocate more expenditure. The fact that, in this situation, the government has kept its head cold and, in fact, there, within the spending appropriations, has been able to show more savings, which have accumulated as a result of the employment situation which has just improved, for example, as a result of a reduction in unemployment expenditure, and yet have found these important things to be corrected, such as the budget for police and culture and physical activity. But the whole thing is exactly what has been brought up here. So now we can reduce our debt by 2.2 billion,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u76	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u77	Madam President! This is where the minister just told us that we are in the children's piggy banks, and it does sound pretty awful that the children's piggy banks should already be. When you think about this earlier measure, when you went to this recovery fund in the EU and there Finland put a huge amount of money, that is where the money remained. Finland did not benefit much from this. And now we are coming to the EU with a new social package such as this, which France and Italy, the so-called rich countries, will benefit from. Finland would certainly be in a rather bad position there. Now that we are looking at the economy, how to balance this economy and a little more rationally, I would ask when the Minister raised those regions and education. University hospitals are quite a fortune for us, and it is good that we have university hospitals, but it is not automation that we have university hospitals. What about funding for these? However, they were not earmarked in the war. And the other thing is this National Cancer Center.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u78	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u79	Madam President! It is a good thing that the state economy is slowly recovering, and one way of saying this is to thank the government for its determined efforts to pay for the cost support of companies. It is true that it has not been possible to grant it to all companies within the framework of the rules. I'm sure those companies have suffered. But it is worth remembering the vast majority of entrepreneurs to whom this has been an invaluable help. Companies are well now, and apparently there are jobs and results. The second concern that concerns me — Mr Markku Eestilä, in his own speech, described this right of education in English, foreign language, in vocational education in Eastern Finland. It's been stolen and pawned around here somewhere. Is that a plug in the ministry or where is it? Wherever it is, we need those language experts in Eastern Finland, because there are many, many companies that need to bet on how to do foreign trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u80	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u81	Mr President! Now that we are delighted with the growth in the economy and employment, which we are all pleased about of course, it is good to understand why. This is entirely due to the worldwide recovery and printing of money and huge debt, and this is the one that has drawn Finnish demand for growth and growth in employment, but this involves a huge risk. And I don't know if there's ever been any success in the history of the world with the system that only through debt are things being done forward. What we should do now is to put this nest in order. Here's your representative. My corner well spoke of the fact that public finances are not balanced. We have a shortage of labour, even though we are at the same time experiencing an increase in long-term unemployment. In our economy, the incentives are not right. In addition, we do not get jobs abroad for job vacancies quickly enough, even though this ‘D’ visa came but not for other sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u82	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u83	Mr President! Taking care of people is also an important economic policy, and now we must ensure that people and regions get on their feet properly after the crisis. This is why care for welfare and security is also emphasised in this amending budget. The resources of these organisations will be secured, and this is particularly important in order to work together in the regions next year to find a common area of action between organisations, municipalities and well-being areas. Indeed, the objectives of the social welfare reform cannot be achieved without the important work of the organisations, and now, by preventing the sudden collapse of funding, the regions will be at peace with the planning of joint action. President! With a view to recovering from the interest rate in the regions, I would also like to thank the government in particular for securing air links with the regions, because this is a priority in order to get the operations back on track.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u84	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u85	Madam President! As Minister Saarikko said at the beginning, growth really rests on the regions. I would therefore like to thank the government very warmly for the same thing as the previous speaker, namely the security of regional flights. That EUR 13.8 million is really an important contribution to the vitality of our regions. It is an important investment in business and our accessibility as a whole. Regional flights are absolutely essential for the people of the regions and, above all, for the business community. I myself use those flights, and it has been gratifying to see that the number of passengers has increased for a month, and the same has also been read in the news, i.e. every month more people have travelled. And I very much hope that people will start using this air transport, that next autumn we will be able to get into market-based traffic and that flights will start to run just like the old days. The opposition will also agree that the government is to be commended for this security of regional flights.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u86	Congressman Sheik Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u87	Madam President! The economy is really going through a lot now, it is not going through it, but, as Mr Satonen has just said, such a worrying phenomenon may be ahead of us, and we can see that. Why don't you go to the lumber store, for example? This is an absurd situation in which prices are rising at the moment. This situation is really scary. But despite that, Congressman Saramo just bangs his suspenders and brags there when you're supposed to be awake when you're about to have those jobs for real. Thank you very much for increasing the budget for the police — fortunately, you listened to the opposition and the police too, of course — but this is very much reflected in the lack of long-termism. Every time your feet are about to get wet, then you'll find the money somewhere with the debt. Actually, I think we should get a real grip on this right now so we can see,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u88	I will give the floor to the representatives Könttä, Strand and Mika Kari, followed by a minister. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Not only thank you for this additional funding from the police, but also for your contribution to security in general; additional funding for Customs, Raja, the Defence Forces. This is a very fine symbolic act, but also a practical act, how much this government invests in the safety of Finns. This is historic, and of course it will be crowned with a big decision for the rest of the year. However, while he is here, I would like to ask the Minister: When we have had the need for structural reforms in Finland even before the interest rate, and certainly after the interest rate, how do you see these structural reforms and the need for them, is there anything we could take as a model from that Sweden? And when we have many systems with increasing costs, including the housing allowance system and the social security system, and there are still obstacles to entrepreneurship, what do you see that we can do,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u90	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u91	Tack, ärade talman! Jag tror det var ledamot Eestilä som lyfte fram arbetskraftsbristen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u92	Madam President, Madam Minister! Although the government has its own role and the opposition has a big role to play, and here, on the part of the opposition, thanks have been given to the government for its good solutions, including, for example, increasing the number of police officers, it is good to say that the pressure also came from within the government. Together, Parliament has seen the need for the police budget to be predictable and the police work to have the necessary stability and bottom-up, and the support of the nation. Good for you, and for that, thank you to the government and the minister. Justice is one part of this whole area of internal security, and a parliamentary effort has already been made to find the same long bridge about five years ago to secure the resources of justice. Hopefully, there will still be time for this work during this government, so that the resources for justice as a whole can also be built with the same logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u93	Minister Saarikko, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have addressed a number of different themes in the light of the individual aspects of this amending budget and the broad economic policy picture. First of all, I would like to comment on this matter for the police. I am not at all sorry to say that yes, it was the government's re-evaluation that was influenced by the debate in Parliament over the government and opposition line and also by the discussions I had with the police chief, and the understanding that the buffer in the police's activities, which is, as it were, a safeguard in the economy during the course of the year, was too small and, from the point of view of the state's core activities, it was too small to be able to secure it in a sustainable way. I am pleased that the government, in cooperation with Parliament, could make this decision, and together we can rejoice at it, while the working group, the external liquidator, now considers that we can better assess the level of funding, but with the understanding that Mr Koponen, among other things, pointed out very well that the policy is not to be taken with a solution, who is the loudest screamer, but the whole chain of justice must be understood as a whole. This is something that the government has often discussed, thanks in particular to what Mr Henriksson has said on this subject, and I am very pleased that this proposal now includes a total of 23 million additional expenditure on the activities of the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the private legal advisers and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. In other words, this is an assessment of the whole chain of justice, which, as has rightly been said here, has had certain problems. Representative Niemi: the police budget is therefore over 30 million according to that book, and the draft amending budget, as it were, is about 32 million. Then, as a matter of fact, I would also like to raise Mr Hopsu's speech when you raised the issue of these vaccine donations, which I myself did not list in all the details. I also consider it important as humanitarian development cooperation, but also, in a sense, from the point of view of common solidarity and also of self-interest, to be wise when we know how the corona and the global pandemic are going and developing. It is our common global interest to be responsible for vaccinations and to use the vaccines we have obtained in this way if there is no use for them. Well, then, Mr President, on this broader picture of the economy: I see that there is quite a lot of discussion here about whether the government has managed this economy during the corona period. I suppose there are quite a few indicators to estimate that it has been managed well, given the development of both employment and the increased tax revenue from the amending budget that is being presented at the moment. But the much more relevant debate that I wanted to stimulate in my speech was what we are going to do from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u97	Let me give Mr Zyskowicz a reply. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u98	Thank you again to Minister Saarikko for an excellent speech. It is precisely how we maintain and strengthen growth and hence employment in the future that is absolutely crucial. It is also true that Finland has been living as a debt for years, but of course that is no reason to continue along this path. I would think that is the basis for why we should try to do so so that this debt at this rate would not continue. I think this is the pain of the government. Of course, the big problem is to be able to agree on these decisions to strengthen the economy and employment in the government, but even if growth can now be boosted, realism is that we also need to prioritise spending, and that is what this government has so far failed to do. If something's been saved, it'll be canceled when the noise has come.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u99	We shall now proceed to the list of — Representative Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Today, as a national day of success and praise, it has been a pleasure to read about the wealth and success of Finns. Increasing prosperity, increasing work and securing growth is the top priority of the Centre Party of Finland. Only through economic growth will we secure the survival of the welfare society. The fourth amending budget presented by the Minister of Finance focuses on better everyday life for us Finns. Those who have been badly hit by the corona will be helped. The funding of the police is secured and the security of the Finns is at all invested. In the same way, investments are also made in the activities of the Defence Forces and Customs. An additional EUR 65 million is proposed for the purchase of two outpost vessels for 2021. These improve the security of Finns, they improve the security of the country. The accessibility of the regions will also be invested in. Securing air transport is an act for a more productive and growing economy. Support for regional flights for legitimate business and export reasons has brought totally hypocritical proposals to social media. Unfortunately, some politicians also think that there is no need for international contacts with the world in the provinces, at least in the case of aircraft. The question of the vitality of the regions also divides decision-makers in cultural policy. Thanks to a knowledgeable and accessible higher education policy, the regions are also geared towards investing in the future, the work of the future and growth. The renaissance of the bioeconomy will continue as the whole country is investing in sustainable products with a view to future consumption requirements in a sustainable and high-quality way. More good investment news is in sight. Mr President! In higher education policy, a good policy of decentralisation must be pursued so that universities of applied sciences and universities will continue to have more start-ups and new study modules. In the whole country, decentralized, not centralised — this policy is opposed by many people, but lets it be opposed. However, even after the rapid economic downturn and the corona virus situation, the public finances remain in deficit. The temporary economic recovery will not eliminate the structural fiscal problems and imbalances that exist in Finland. Public debt relative to GDP rose rapidly in 2020. Fortunately, this growth in the debt ratio is slowing down this year, and it must be ensured that the debt ratio will also slow down in the future. We must ensure that Finland and the welfare society are on a sustainable path also in 2030. Gross domestic product is estimated to grow by 3.3 per cent this year. The recovery from the corona pandemic has been rapid since spring of this year, but the temporary recovery of the economy will not remove structural fiscal imbalances. You can't fall into a false sense of security. Otherwise, there is a big bill for our children and grandchildren to pay. Madam President! We need more structural reforms, more growth and more work, not less. The housing support system needs to be renovated and rigid social security needs to be reformed as a basic income, labour markets need to be brought closer to neighbouring Sweden and obstacles to entrepreneurship still need to be removed. Taxation must always be encouraging for entrepreneurs, businesses and all of us citizens. There is work to be done, and there is also work to be done for the next governments, but that work must now be started. Finland needs more wolts and less debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u101	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u102	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Saarikko, for presenting this amending budget. I think it was a very good speech, and I particularly thank you for highlighting the sustainability road map — that is an important point. In my speech, I will only comment on a few points which I think are important and which have already been raised in many other speeches here during the debate. First of all, it is good to note that the Finnish economy has recovered from the corona crisis faster than other euro countries. Finland is also relatively one of the least indebted countries in the corona crisis. We have therefore succeeded in dealing with the crisis in a good and responsible way. Taking care of people is an important economic policy and it is therefore necessary to ensure that citizens and regions get on their feet properly after the crisis. This is why care for welfare and security is highlighted in this amending budget, and that is good. I also mentioned the importance of securing the resources of organisations, so that next year, in cooperation with organisations, municipalities and well-being areas, we can look for an area of activity where each actor can play its own important role. After all, the objectives of the social welfare reform will not be achieved without the important work of the organisations, and now that this sudden financial collapse has been prevented, the regions will have peace of work to plan joint action and to clarify the division of labour. In this context, we should remember that, without organisations, the debt of care, care and rehabilitation after the interest rate would be even higher in Finland. It is therefore necessary to continue to safeguard the operating conditions of the organisations. In one way or another, they must be taken care of, as all actors are needed to promote health and well-being and also to achieve the objectives of the social welfare reform. In promoting health and well-being, the investment in basic art education, art and culture in this amending budget is also important measures. Mr President! A total of more than EUR 30 million is proposed for the police in order to safeguard their activities and to combat crime against critical sectors, as well as to expose corruption and enhance support for investigations. At the same time, a study will be launched on the use of police funds and the prospects for spending. This is very important because we have to look at it long-term and long-term enough. Securing police resources over a long period of time is important, for, for example, the lack of resources in the fight against financial crime leaves the state with considerable amounts of unrecoverable crime benefits, and this does not make any sense. We have also spoken here in Parliament this autumn about the nausea of young people. Police skills are also needed, for example, in school bullying and school violence prevention work, and resources and funding must also be found in the police to secure this activity. Mr President! The issue of interest-bearing pandemic has been congested by cases before the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as a number of cases had to be suspended or transferred by special arrangements to prevent the spread of the pandemic. From the point of view of human rights, this is an intolerable situation, and that is why the allocation to the courts for the dismantling of congestion is an important issue. And, as I said in the debate, air transport is essential for the future of the provinces. However, since the interest rate, the number of passengers has not yet returned to normal levels, and an appropriation for securing regional air links is therefore necessary. This will secure air connections in accordance with purchasing traffic until August 2022. Hopefully, then, society will already operate more normally and we will also be able to find market-based solutions. Mr President! Although the economy is now recovering at a good pace — thanks to the swift and correct government action — the shadow of the corona has by no means gone away. We must do our utmost to minimise the impact of the interest rate on our society and to respond quickly and decisively. Efforts are still needed to safeguard the well-being of both people and the economy. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u103	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u104	Mr President! The opposition has been saying throughout the parliamentary term that the government has an open debt surge and the government's efforts to improve employment are insufficient. In this amending budget, however, the government will reduce the need for net borrowing by EUR 2.2 billion. The main reason for this is higher tax revenue estimates in earned and capital income. It is estimated that income from earnings and capital taxes has risen by as much as EUR 1.5 billion. The reduced need for borrowing reflects the fact that the government's efforts to overcome the corona pandemic have been not only adequate but also timely in the large picture. Thanks to successful action, the economy has started to recover and employment is increasing, and so it is good. Only through a successful fight against the pandemic can we ensure that the current economic base continues to be positive. The interest pass and increasing vaccine coverage contribute to the confidence of citizens and businesses to keep society open and the wheels of the economy running, despite the developments in the pandemic. Mr President! Economic recovery is important not only for the state's treasury but also for the prevention of exclusion. Remote work and distance learning have been a stressful time for many. The interest period has increased loneliness, mental health problems, and working life has suffered. The fact that society can be kept open reduces not only the sovereign debt but also the welfare debt that has accumulated for us during the corona period. This amending budget also focuses on overall security. The amending budget will increase funding for rescue services, the police and the entire legal chain. In the state economy, we now have to take action to promote the recovery from the pandemic. Mr President! Corona virus is a global pandemic. The pandemic will not be over until it has been turned around all over the world. This is why it is great that the government has decided in the amending budget to donate vaccines to developing countries. The donations are made with earmarked aid, which is conditional on the purchase of vaccines from the Finnish quota. As a result, the cost impact is almost neutral for the State. Increasing vaccine coverage is the only way to overcome coronapandem. Vaccines are one of the greatest inventions in world history that has been able to combat a number of dangerous epidemics. The goal of the interest rate accomodation is the same: to minimise the diseases and deaths caused by the coronavirus. In order to achieve this goal, we need to get vaccine coverage globally high enough to control the disease and reverse the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u105	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u106	Madam President, Minister! In the budget, and also in this amending budget, there was not enough money for the Kuopio Rescue College, and so the representatives and representatives of the region have been concerned as to whether funding will now be available, because the rescue sector is in distress. We have made it a budget initiative, and here too there are some good reasons why we see this emergency school in Kuopio as very important. The Emergency Response Centre is an important provider of everyday safety through education. The rescue services across the country have announced that by 2030 there will be a need for 1000 new rescuers in addition to current education production. The draft budget had not provided funding for rescue training, and this would mean that there is no way to respond to the need to increase rescue training. Obviously, if there is no extra money, the rescue academy will probably have to cut down on the current starting points, and in practice that means that the shortage of rescuers will worsen and the consequences of the shortage of personnel, at worst the closure of fire stations. This is a very worrying development, especially in these sparsely populated areas, where distances are already long. This threat is not only about the rescuers, but also, of course, the emergency centers. If the emergency centre does not have trained on-call personnel, the need for assistance will not be passed on to the police or other authorities. Due to previous surgeries, the Rescue College has already reduced its operations to a minimum. All activities supporting core activities that have been able to outsource have been outsourced. The costs of the Ict and the premises will be given and their trend has been increasing. In practice, the only one that can be affected is staff costs. In the history of the Emergency Response Centre, there may be significant first-time procedures if this is the case that there is no funding. These cases would have a significant impact on the number of staff at the rescue academy and would also have a clear impact on the volume and quality of training activities. We hope that there will be additional funding for this. Minister, can you now assure us that enough money will be added to the Kuopio Rescue College, that there will be enough money to increase rescue training? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u107	Congressman Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u108	Mr President! In many ways, the interest-rate crisis is waning, which is well reflected in this draft amending budget. The need for net borrowing is reduced by EUR 2.2 billion, which is indeed a promising sign that the economy is recovering in many ways. This will also create room for manoeuvre to support those who have not yet properly survived the crisis. We are now able to support, for example, those in the cultural sector who have been severely affected and may still be affected by restrictions and pandemics. This is very important because we need culture to get out of this crisis. People now need well-being, education, art, and, on the other hand, culturalists desperately need the opportunity to return to their jobs and earn their living. It is therefore essential that we now be able to support culture. Moreover, we must remember that this crisis is not over in many Finnish families either. Children, the elderly, have been hit particularly hard by this crisis, and many are still suffering from mental health problems. The last message I received today was from Tampere, where young people in the Department of Youth Psychiatry still have to stay on mattresses because they have not been helped in time, properly. There is not enough space, people are not enough, and we still need to be able to respond to this acute situation. Of course, organisations play a crucial role in this. They were on the front line when the corona crisis started. Their chat rooms, help phones, and other flexible services were absolutely invaluable when many fell on nothing when schools, hobbies, and suddenly had to be alone with their thoughts. It is therefore essential that the operating conditions of these organisations be safeguarded in the coming years. It is known that such necessary work should not have to be paid by betting revenue. A more permanent solution is sought for this, but as long as it remains, it is essential to ensure that these organisations do not at least have to drive down their vital services, those chat services, cell phones, other low-threshold aids for young people and older people who are in great need. We know that a lot of people need this. We know that these can at best save a person’s life when he is deep in anxiety and depression, and that is why it is essential that these be taken care of in the future. So the signs are promising. That's a great thing. We're heading towards the light, but now we have to make sure everyone survives this pandemic. We must not forget those who suffer from severe trauma or mental problems. Nor must we forget that the pandemic is not over here until it is over in the whole world, and that is why this international vaccination programme is particularly important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u109	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u110	Madam President! The fourth amending budget for the year is under discussion. Last year, the seventh amending budget was dealt with at this time, so it has been better this year. The fourth amending budget will reduce the need for net borrowing by EUR 2.2 billion. However, I find it quite extraordinary that EUR 271 million from the EU recovery instrument has been put on the revenue side. This is misleading, to say the least. This is our own money, whose entire price tag we do not even know yet. Our economy is currently growing well, but this is only short-term growth due to rising interest rates. According to the Bank of Finland forecast, growth has already returned to a normal career of around 1.3 per cent in 23 years. There is currently more tax revenue than expected, but it should not be wasted. It would now be sensible to save in view of future worse times. I would also point out that the corona crisis is not over yet. We are still living in uncertain times. Mr President! Let's talk about leadership again. It is true that this government has not shown good leadership during its term of office. The decision-making process has been impulsive and decisions are withdrawn and changed due to pressure from outside. A good example is this rowing and blanketing of the activities supported by betting funds, which is also included in this amending budget. The external pressure and the fuss that had hit the Prime Minister's party led the government to reverse the decisions already agreed, and the reduction in the winnings will be fully compensated, even though the rest had already been decided. Of course, the money will support important activities, and the crisis in our social services sector, for example, would be much deeper without the important work of the organisation field. However, the funding of the organisation field must also be viewed critically if at some point their funding is permanently transferred to the budget. Even more worryingly, I would see a deviation from the framework, which seems to be the way of this government to become a country. We've got to get rid of the squirming decision-making. If necessary, difficult decisions need to be taken to the end, even if criticism comes and the polls start to scare you. Good and goal-oriented leadership and long-term thinking are needed here. Mr President! Sum summarum: Thanks to the vigorous efforts of this government, as early as 2020, we were in debt by 17.4 billion and this year, in accordance with the 4th amending budget under discussion, by 12.2 billion, or, depending on the presentation, it may also be 11.7. The estimate for next year's additional debt is currently 6.9 billion, and that is unlikely to be the case. So our debt in the three-year period has increased by 36 billion more. Our debt has now risen to 136 billion, and our public debt is more than 70% of GDP. At the same time, we will put EUR 7 billion in the EU's recovery instrument and perhaps EUR 1.2 billion in the planned climate fund. All we can get back is crumbs. Today we have already decided to join in the capitalisation of the European Union's stability mechanism, that is to say, we are going to join in the rescue of existing and future waste banks in Europe. In addition to this, there is a reform of the welfare area which will certainly create a new administrative price, which the people will then pay for, but nothing will guarantee that access to treatment will be easier or more effective, at least not without massive additional financial contributions, which will have to be done again with debt. Well, I guess there's not a lot of other options in the end. Mr President! It would be fair for the present government itself to clean up the mess it has caused. Unfortunately, this government is pushing the next governments into an unacceptable situation, especially since we were still hearing from the Minister at the beginning of the presentation that the children's piggy bank is in constant use. This is certainly not the case if it is paid for there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u111	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u112	Madam President! Minister Saarikko said earlier that the current economic growth is temporary, that although Finland's recovery has been better than expected and debt is decreasing, unfortunately, the big picture is not in the economic climate as the desired positive change is taking place. As stated in that amending budget, the temporary economic recovery will not eliminate structural fiscal imbalances. I will take two comments on this amending budget. Here, family benefits will be reduced by EUR 14 million, which is not an operation but, in itself, an unfortunate saving that reflects a reduction in the birth rate. This reduction is due, among other things, to a reduction in the number of child supplements and child support recipients compared to the one previously estimated. Although we have now had these little happy news that the birth rate has risen slightly during the corona period, it also seems to be a temporary phenomenon. Unfortunately, we have a very distorted age structure, and that is why I would like the government to bring forward proposals that could give positive signals to families that all babies and all children are welcome in this Finnish society. And then there's another thing. I am a little disappointed that this amending budget has not put any effort into the most critical problem at the moment, namely this welfare debt that we still have since the corona period, and in particular this shortage of nurses in health care — primary health care, special care — as well as in elderly services. I know that, under the leadership of Minister Kiuru, this issue has been investigated and that is a good thing, but we need to act very quickly. That is why I expected and hoped that some kind of investment would already have been made in order to be able to pay for this welfare debt. One proposal would be to temporarily increase these private medical benefits for Kela in order to make more effective use of this private sector. I would also like Minister Saarikko to answer this question if there was any possibility for the government to consider this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u113	At this point, I will give Minister Saarikko another 3 minutes because he will have to leave this Parliament in a few minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u114	Mr President! Indeed, I have to move on to the government's negotiations on interest rates. We have not had to meet for a few days, but at the same time as we have finally reached the 80% vaccine coverage, we know that the hospital load, and hence the care debt that Mr Räsänen wisely referred to, is on the increase and it is worth assessing the situation and also the tools that the government and regional authorities have at their disposal, that the situation will remain even in this way reasonable and that we will still be able to increase the level of vaccine coverage. What does that have to do with this conversation? It is very much linked, because the economic upturn is behind the opening up of societies, and the economic upturn is driven by good interest rate management so far, which has increased people's confidence, which has strengthened the confidence of households in the survival of this time. It has been possible to maintain hope, and it has been possible to ensure that, now that societies are open, savings have been made on the side of the sock, be it in business investment or in the consumption of individual households. A few comments on this debate and the longer speeches by the representatives. Mr Könttä had a very good overall view of the need for economic reform. In this context, these Veikkaus solutions, which were taken up by the government in pretty big letters, were raised in previous speeches. I would now like to stress that the compensations for this fourth amending budget are therefore already a commitment on the basis of a previous solution, based on the fact that it was agreed for this year, in the middle of the year of the corona crisis, for organisations and for all beneficiaries in the fields of culture, science, art and sport, 100% income support for Veikkaus' reduced income from the state budget. But the situation of Veikkaus has been worse than that of the government, and even Veikkaus himself is still predicting in the autumn of 20 years of the budget. Well, as far as the development of the corona situation and the related nursing debt are concerned, previous budgets have made considerable investments in this area, mental health, services for children and young people. And I would stress that the sustainable growth programme, that is, Finland's recovery from the EU recovery package, includes a whole fourth pillar of funding, one at the heart of the whole, care debt and the reform of social services. So, yes, the investments in this will be significant. At the same time, realistically, we may not even know all about the care debt yet, when the situation is still ongoing and every single day the burden on hospitals also creates a care debt and, consequently, pressure on our economy. In addition, I would like to highlight the importance of education which has been raised in several speeches in the previous debate. Mr Könttä referred in the context of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u115	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u116	Mr President! In a sense, the fact that we now have 100,000 more jobs than we did a year ago, and we have recovered from the crisis better than the euro countries on average and also in relative debt during this crisis than many other countries — i.e. we have done well in the economy — I think, Mr President, is also an indication of the success of economic policy and of the real things that have been done. I remember very well when this uncertain pandemic began, but it was then a conscious decision that was made to tackle the crisis here and now: there were many amending budgets, in this way jobs were created and certainty that we would avoid a wave of bankruptcy. We take care of social security for small people and entrepreneurs in order to maintain certain opportunities for living, and we made many investments, including various packages for the well-being of children and young people, etc. etc. This situation here and now, as it were, combined with this recovery, which came after it, and now we are already considering how, in a couple of years' time, we will hopefully return to a more normal development in the world – I believe that all this has been done well as a result of actions and decisions, the results are visible and, on average, very much better than in many other countries, and this would in some way deserve the attention of the opposition. I thought it was terribly nice, President, when a representative Among the Finns, Niemi sincerely thanked the government for coming to the 30 million police that we need for human security here and now. At the same time, however, the Coalition Party did nothing but continue the line of criticism. And I do not see much of the speeches on this list from the assembly. So obviously — and I regret to say this, but whether it is so — the result is too good at the moment to be discussed here. There will also be challenges in the future, and we all know that. I have no reason to believe, President, that we will not be able to deal with these challenges in a responsible and moderate manner and find a solution to the difficult situation in the future. As an individual thank you also for the police money, it was very important for the Sos.dem. group. We raised it to one of the top points of the summer meeting. I would also like to thank you for the fact that these cultural compensations will also come next year, and they will then come in the supplementary budget, and this amending budget has indeed already been compensated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u117	Congressman Löfström is gone. — Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u118	Madam President! In that brief debate, I drew attention to this general situation of whether to say macrophoto, so I am not going to repeat it again. Now, I would like to raise two points: After all, we now have a net impact of EUR 248 million on expenditure. But it is quite interesting to look at what is happening there within the state budget in this proposal. The biggest reduction is EUR 308 million in the main category of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. That is what Mr Räsänen referred to here, by way of example, to these family benefits, but the biggest reduction is, of course, the reduction in the need for unemployment expenditure. There will also be a significant reduction in the amount of health insurance allowances that were now earmarked for the purposes of the interest rate tests and some others. So this will result in a reduction in this kind of 308 million. All in all, these reductions will in fact amount to EUR 550 million, and then the consideration will be the increase of EUR 300 million, most of which will then be allocated to the Ministry of the Interior, or EUR 99.6 million. It's got this cop's over 30 million and then the Border Guard's outposts. Transport is about to receive 62 million and the Ministry of Justice 27 million, and the Ministry of Education and Culture 31 million, which is linked to this very cultural budget, which has been mentioned a great deal here. So I wanted to draw attention to the internal changes in budget appropriations. I think that the Minister of Finance has just explained well that this amending budget has not been allocated money since, for example, the management debt, because it has been financed by us in the past and is becoming funded through other funds. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the opposition, above all the coalition, raised criticism that Finland's economic growth was not as strong as in the analogue countries. I would say that it was about statistical trickery. If I now take the example that in one country gross national income has fallen by 8% and then it will increase by 6%, and we have a fall of 2.9% and an increase of 3.3. What is the right way to compare? Is it that we compare the 6% increase to our 3.3? Isn't it right to compare what's the overall effect?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u119	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u120	Tack, fru ordförande! That is exactly what Mr Lindén said. Representative Könttä brought up the sale announced today. A Finnish company is sold for 7 billion forward. That is a good thing in that it imports capital into the country, capital that can then be reinvested, and it is exceptional in that so far Finnish companies have been sold in considerably smaller sizes. The Swedes grow their own businesses before they can be sold — we have sold them in a few million sizes, and others have then harvested the fruit. In this respect, development is good, but even in the face of this individual case we must of course consider how this will become a rule and not an exception, how we can support Finnish ownership, growing Finnish property and business growth opportunities here at home. How is it possible to ensure that there is capital invested here and that there are fiscal incentives that you want to invest in your home country and want to keep property and develop businesses? It is, of course, linked to the taxation of capital in the longer term, but also, for example, to the taxation of inheritances, both of which today are in such a way that such growth stories may not be encouraged. Employment was on the agenda: where we were still in balance 15 years ago with the employment rate of between 67% and 68% and the target was for a long time 72, now 75 are in the fork if we are to apply that old method of calculation, but we are already calling for 78 if public finances are to be balanced. Of course, it tells us that demographic developments have been unfavorable in view of the fact that we do not have an optimal dependency ratio, which means that we need to speed up the reversal of these indicators — which then relates again to the obvious need for labour immigration, the need to check these processes, and I really hope that, in the Ministry of Labour, these things can move forward quickly. The police budget has also been discussed here. This budget book contains the biggest contributions to the police in the history of Finland. So no earlier yellow book has made so much money, but there will now be another 30 million, which indicates that internal security and the police situation are taken seriously and that progress has been good. We were talking about the judiciary here, and there was criticism of the fact that we are also investing in legal advisers, who are, of course, private sector agents, but now I do not want to make such an ideological twist that private operators cannot be used to improve the situation in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u121	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u122	Madam President! This fourth amending budget for this year clearly shows that the economy is recovering. We've had to pay a lot of money for Korona. It's not just about Finland, it's about the whole world. We are not in a worse position to move than the rest of us. The same misery has been shared. Thank you very much to the government of the country and to the Minister for Finance, Saarikko, for introducing cost subsidies for companies. It has ensured that companies have been reasonably able to run over the difficulties of the corona period. Many companies have had overwhelming difficulties and, unfortunately, some companies have decided to close down, but the big picture is pretty good. Thank you to the entire government for doing well. However, it was certainly one of the most difficult economic places in the history of Finland. And if someone criticizes this package, which has already been made in many copies, it is worth remembering that no one could practice this in advance. This is where we went from intuition, even sometimes by mutating, that we could make it. In any case, the level of government debt remains at which I am concerned. Great financial wisdom has already warned against the possibility of an increase in interest rates. It might not be coming now. It's not in the immediate view. As Olli Rehn, President of the Bank of Finland, reassured, there seems to be no major pressure on the interest rate market at the moment, but it is ahead anyway. That's why we need to get that debt under control. And how do you do that? Mr President! I am very concerned that the big engine of the Finnish economy, the forests in general, is now being attacked by all possible weapons from the European Union. There's taxonomia and there's LULUCF and there's a lot of development. There are RED 3 and these renewable energy sustainability criteria and others. The Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Jari Leppää, does not envy you when you wrestle with things like this in the EU. I only hope that his strength and tenacity will suffice, because this is by no means a quick run but a marathon run times two. The fact is that we must not agree to abandon the major issues in the Treaty of Accession of the European Union, the first of which was that social policy is one of the decisions of the kingdom, of each Member State. Today, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we discussed the second recovery package in the expert consultation, namely this social package. There is now a high level of common debt and there is an increase in joint bonds and an investment in social policy to offset the cost of rising energy prices, mainly as a result of climate change. It is quite unheard of that the European Commission, as if it were not aware of the EU's main lines. The Commission is the only institution in Europe that needs to be known. Even if others are less informed in Europe, the Commission must know. What on earth is happening here in Europe when such a procedure is being cultivated by the European Commission? If Ursula von der Leyen were there, I would ask her this, but she is not there now, I hope to watch this broadcast. [Laughter] This dismantling of forests and forestry and the forest industry is something that is currently being done, and it gives me very poor health, even insomnia. It cannot be that we allow the backbone of our own economy to be scrapped by our own decisions. It is worthwhile for all Finnish MPs and Finns to remember how we have overcome this recession. Forests have happened, there has been work, there has been energy, there has been export products, there has been money for municipalities, for citizens, for everyone. The wheels of the factory have been visited, the wheels have been hot, the work is done both in forests and factories and in export ports, and wooden houses are built and everything about Finnish renewable raw material is done. Now this is under attack. In this house, at least as far as the Greens are concerned, it seems to be a national pleasure to try to bring down the forests now. Irresponsible action. This is not what I like to watch, and it will not keep my mouth shut. The second point is this shortage of labour. We have huge unemployment in this country, but we still have a shortage of labour. The free movement of labour in the European Union is guaranteed, as we know from the accession agreement. Since 1995, you would think that this has already been corrected by the free movement of workers, but not by the fact that they have not. That is why we need to pay more and more attention to getting our own unemployed people into the labour market as effectively as possible. Similarly, we must reward those retired who, even when they retire, are able to invest in the construction of a fatherland. Of course, a tax relief through tax deduction has been planned for them. I encourage those who work to be rewarded with less taxation. It's the least we can do. They have the skills, they have the skills, they have the desire to build a country. It must be rewarded and not punished. Then there's this huge permit bureaucracy. One of the worst causes of unemployment in this country is this absurd licensing bureaucracy that revolves around. We are beginning to have ports that cannot develop its background when a bird happens to live nearby. Because of the alien species that came here, or I don't know if there's a alien species anymore, but because of that bird, they're doing a lot of damage in this country all the time. The same goes for white cheek geese. Agriculture has been driven into such distress that farmers are desperate. In this country, we have to make sense to find that this sort of thing is going to be put right. And if anyone wants to build a factory, it will be permitted to build a factory there in a year. We know how to deal with environmental issues. Or we'll have to make a decision in this house that we'll have a carbon leak and let the factories go out there. But then those who hang around with climate bureaucracy will be able to dance from morning to night, go abroad and see what it really is when we do everything cleaner next door.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u123	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u124	Mr President! In this fourth amending budget this year, GDP is estimated to increase by 3.3% this year. It can be said that economic recovery has been quite rapid this year. This is largely about the fact that pent-up demand has been triggered by the relaxation of restrictive measures. This has boosted private consumption and boosted employment. International demand has also been good. In fact, that growth rate, 3.3 per cent, is quite good. According to the economic doctrines that I have read, a three-4% increase would be optimal and would enable the undisturbed development of the national economy. Economic recovery will continue and economic growth will also be expected to reach almost 3% next year. Of course, uncertainties are the evolution of the disease situation and, on the other hand, the fact that the temporary recovery of the economy will not eliminate structural fiscal imbalances. Major structural reforms are needed and needed. Mr President! The need for net borrowing will be significantly reduced as the draft amending budget takes account of changes in demand estimates and increases in tax revenue as a result of the improvement in the cyclical situation. Tax revenue estimates will be increased by EUR 1.5 billion and the need for net borrowing will be reduced by EUR 2.2 billion. Mr President! Just a few more words about Veikkaus's winnings and his profit development. According to the very latest performance forecast, this year's bet would be roughly the same as last year, but overall it has decreased from around EUR 1 000 million in this couple of years to around EUR 670 million, and that is a major change. The mainly corona pandemic has affected the returns of the bet, especially as a result of the closure of slot machines. There are other reasons. Next year is secured by avoiding cuts and compensating for the decline in profits from within the spending limits with budgetary resources, but of course this debate on how to maintain all these good intentions, which have been financed by the proceeds of the bet, is good,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u125	Congressman Essayah gone, Congressman Kettunen gone. — Representative Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u126	Madam President! When we discuss the additional budget, we have to look back a little and say that the government has succeeded. If we criticise it or want to water down the government's actions by saying that this is global growth and that there is nothing to do with the government's actions, then self-deception is committed. By means of company support packages, the government has made it possible for us to avoid a wave of bankruptcy. However, we have been able to keep the wheels of our business running, even though the interest rate situation has been particularly difficult. We've been able to put money in the right targets. The government could have failed, but not failed, but what has been done has made it possible for us to achieve strong economic growth now. This funding for regional air transport was raised here, and that is good. Our export industry definitely needs our air transport also on a regional level. However, I would like to see, in future, a look at the fields in the provinces where there is a great deal of export industry. It is now a pity that Satakunta continues to be dependent on urban subsidies to make exports to the export industry possible. What other good can be said? However, the police, the border guard, the rescue and customs have been there for what is really needed. But while I look forward to that report on the police, I would really like our Parliamentary Audit Committee to take it upon itself to find out how the funds of the police administration are being used, the big increase, so to speak, at the level of the director, but also at the overall level. We need a police force among the people and to prevent crime, and now it would be a good time for Parliament to look at whether it is beneficial to spend money on it. And I must also agree with Mr Hoskosen's good point of view regarding our authorisation. It is shocking that, as far as the green transition is concerned, we too are in a situation in Harjavalta where the battery chemical plant is at the height of the brush and, through the complaint, the environmental permit is withdrawn. We must do something to be on this green transition hill. And that means that foreign investors can rely on the Finnish licensing system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u127	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u128	Mr President! Thank you very much for your wise words, Mrs Myllykoski. Indeed, the Harjavalta case is something that makes me wonder whether we are in a democratic state at all when it is possible, with the will of individual people, to put an end to such a huge investment. Those who want this country to slow down and make more unemployed people here should go to themselves and wonder what services these complainers themselves use in this society. They are all made with the tax money of the people who work for them. It is not the tax money that falls from the sky as rain, but it must be earned with hard work and new investments. This case of Harjavalta is somehow infuriating that a huge amount of green technology has been invested in helping to keep the whole world healthier. Then you start to brake it. The same applies to the development of Rauma Shipyard. The same applies to many other investments: some EUR 3 to EUR 4 billion are investments in this country that are awaiting authorisation, while another complainer rubs his palms. There is a similar example in Lieksa: There, one bridge has come up for discussion. You can't build a bridge. Now that the second bridge went into renovation, the whole traffic will soon stop when one complainer there wants to make himself to himself. Tragic action. With a few words on agriculture, Mr President: This country has the cleanest food production in the world and the cleanest fields in the world, and sometimes when you listen to this debate and read about the sanctions coming from the EU, which is specifically planned for Finland because of emissions trading and carbon balance, it does make it sad. It is inconceivable that, for example, now that Finland has to play its part, of course, climate policy and its own emissions are aimed at reducing so small and also increasing carbon sinks... We can increase carbon sinks, but the first thing we have to do in this country to avoid paying for nothing is to look at the right carbon dioxide emissions in this country. It makes no sense for us to have 2.3 million hectares of arable land and 10 percent of it, i.e. 230,000 hectares, and of it 110 thousand hectares, to have fields that are still counted as peat-based fields based on soil samples — and where these emissions come from — over 8 million tonnes of emissions. There's no head, there's no tail! Is the Finnish state and the Finnish taxpayer really so rich that it can afford to pay money from scratch through emissions trading to the winds of the world? If anything is paid, then the basis must be correct. Every person who pays the invoice has the right to know whether the reasons for the invoice are correct or whether he pays for nothing. Surely there is a right to know all the truth. The same applies to carbon dioxide sinks in swamps: The 5 million tonnes that are bound by carbon are not counted for the benefit of Finns at all. Who negotiated this? Did the Finnish Parliament give it permission? Now we are dealing with the amending budget, and there again this climate club is playing so handsomely. How much more do we want to pay for Ahava? I get hurt in my heart when many young men and women are unemployed because there has been no investment when the permits are delayed and the European Union is now pushing its own costs to us with social packages and recovery packages. We will be able to make 52 more of these additional budgets a year if we do not make sense of this so that we do not pay these ridiculous bills to the European Union. And if it's any consolation, I read on the Internet this weekend that a bank called Monte dei Paschi di Siena is going down in Italy. That's enough money until Christmas. There when the bank goes down, then in this Chamber another amending budget is being developed, that is what we are doing. You know, sometimes in these quiet moments of the night, you get a drop in the lens, like, "Is this how it's gonna be with the country?" There are many things we can do, but what we should learn in this country is to take care of the country's affairs with spirit and heart so that Finns benefit from it, because Finland is the only nation that upholds the Finnish people, and the Finnish Parliament is the only parliament that holds the Finnish side. No one else is doing it for us. It would be good to learn this basic doctrine. If not, then you should buy a pocket mirror for every congressman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u129	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, there are good things in the amending budget, but I would still like to remind you of this support for informal care and the duty-free provision of informal care. The Finns of Finland have been pushing for the tax exemption of informal care support for a long time, and even now this amending budget could well have been surrounded by even more encouragement for that support for informal care. However, the disease is coming and all that, and it will have a lot to do with the support for informal care and carers, so it would have to be tax-free. More money is definitely needed for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u131	Thank you. — Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u132	Thank you, Mr President. There have been some good speeches here. I take Mrs Myllykoski's reasonable concern about the state of our air traffic and the local airports. I think it is very important that in the future they work both in Satakunta, Kainuu, Central Finland and us in Central Ostrobothnia. What is very worrying about it is that if we think of flights from Central Ostrobothnia to Helsinki today, for example, our state company has, according to my information a few weeks ago, prevented connecting flights, i.e. no connecting flights to the world, in which case what this airline is for, I think will be reduced. This makes it difficult for business travellers to visit where the country's exports are highest, i.e. we have in coastal Ostrobothnia and Central Ostrobothnia. As far as the amending budget is concerned, I have seen such a priority. I have often said that funds should be prioritised for the benefit of the Finnish people, and that is how I once again found out that this is a priority problem. We have Section 24, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Development Cooperation, Actual Development Cooperation Well, I also agree with the thanks that have been credited to the government in this Chamber for the fact that the police budget of 30 million is available. I am very grateful for that. And whenever there is a place of gratitude, it must also be able to say aloud, that is, a special mention and thank the government for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u133	Thank you. — Mr Lundén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I do appreciate the speeches made by Mrs Myllykoski and others. And let him acknowledge that the government has succeeded in supporting the companies. But I have to say, as the grandson of the cab driver, that I think the government has forgotten about the taxi companies. I have spoken about this in this Chamber before, and I am disappointed that even this amending budget has not taken account of taxi drivers. One form of public transport, taxi transport, has suffered quite severely as a result of the interest rate. Today, on a climate-based basis, the demand for public procurement for a low-emission vehicle, which has just entered into force, is increasingly required. However, taxis have lost the scrapping premium when the purchase is outside the subsidies. It is quite unusual for a private car buyer to receive support for his purchase, but a taxi entrepreneur does not. Similarly, the requirements for taxis and, at the same time, for other professional services for charging stations have been completely lacking in euros in this amending budget, which I very much regret. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u135	Thank you. — And now there is room for one more speech at this stage. This matter must then be either suspended or closed. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u136	Thank you, Mr President. In short, there are only two things. The second is this regional funding. It is an excellent thing that it came now, and I wish in this context, when money has also been given there, that those flights should be viewed a bit like... This is an operational activity, I understand that, but I do have a wish to make. There are flights with very strange schedules. Of course, I understand that more flights are taking place during the day, but there are, for example, such departure times that I wonder if they might be worth thinking about if we want more paying customers. And the second point, Mr President, is this agricultural situation, which I mentioned earlier in my speech. It was that Finnish agriculture has been developed more than a century, has been built, has been reformed, developed and improved, has been made into the domestic food industry, but it only happens at the moment because of these European trends and the various export restrictions that are in difficulty. In this country, however, we must be careful to keep this country in such a condition that, under all circumstances, we are able to feed our nation with good Finnish food. I'm sure it's the only life insurance that works in a long run. These life insurance policies issued by insurance companies I do not blame them, but if hunger strikes, then the life insurance policy comes into payment pretty quickly if there are no domestic provisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u137	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. Minister Leppä, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u138	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This new law would amend the legislation on organic production as required by the new EU organic production regulation. The current organic production control law would be repealed. There would be no significant operational changes to the existing regulation of supervisory authorities and controls on administrative coercive measures — they would be proposed with a new administrative penalty which could then respond more quickly to possible non-compliances. EU legislation on organic production is directly applicable in Finland. A law which complements the regulations would not constitute an independent and comprehensive set of regulations, but would be applied in parallel with the regulations. The proposal also proposes to amend the law on the enforcement of the fine as a result of the proposed new administrative penalty payment. The new organic regulation and the control regulation also created a need for changes to the organic control law. After all, in the Government Programme, the objective of the ‘living and supporting food economy’requires the Annex 4 to the Government Programme concerns the informal economy, which is also considered necessary for organic products. These counterfeits have recently been on the move throughout Europe and have been a cause for concern at European level. On the basis of this entry, the national legislation of the entire food chain has been reformed. The requirements of horizontal legislation also apply to organic food and feed, so that, where appropriate, the practices of the feed law and the food law can also apply to organically produced food and feed. President! As far as organic production is concerned, we have strong targets for increasing it both in Europe and here in Finland, and that initial target has now been set for 2027, which is 20% of our surface area, and especially so that we have products on the shelf — not only to measure the surface area but also to measure the products, and this is what we want to contribute to achieving this objective. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u139	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Kalmari absent. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u140	Mr President, Minister! Now we are dealing with organic production, and Finnish agriculture is really important. Without it, there will be no bread on the table and no milk on the table and there will be absolutely no food. This reform is now aimed at ensuring the safety and quality of organic products and at ensuring that the information provided on them is accurate. If you think about this food thing as well as the whole, it would be interesting to know when significant improvements can be expected from the government in terms of food security, and if, at this time, there is no provision for domestic, specifically domestic, food production, then what about when a crisis period really comes and the necessary supplies are not necessarily available and there is not necessarily anything from abroad? That's when that domesticity rate is so important. Last year, according to statistics, as many as 1,197 farms have quit, which is actually a lot. That's a lot. Actually, it's an alarming amount. Somehow one would think that such a green - left government, the centre on the front — the centre on the front — would like to emphasise this particular local food. It would always be such a bigger eco-do, this local food, than when imported from abroad. Of course, not everyone has to eat meat, and not everyone has to be vegetarians. Can’t everyone eat what they want and what they can eat so that the decision-makers don’t have to do much more about it and it’s not gone for anyone if there’s that domestic food on everyone’s plate. In that direction, it would probably be worthwhile to move forward with legislation and take seriously the fact that budget, legislation, all sorts of things could be used to strengthen the provision of domestic local food — domestic food is, in fact, always local food. These competitions can also be influenced when you only have knowledge, and if you look at the impact when local food is being used on the public side, it would mean a huge amount to Finland and Finnish producers and Finnish agriculture. Indeed, if that local food were used in educational institutions, schools, government agencies, and all kinds of nursing homes and so forth, it would be of great importance if domestic food and local food were to be used. This is what we must strive for. Agriculture must be maintained and not all production should be allowed into or even further away from the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u141	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u142	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal to Parliament on organic production and the implementation of the fine contains excellent objectives, but I hope, nevertheless, that when this comes to the committee, it is precisely with a very dense comb that this increase in the administrative burden is seen that how much will come of it. We in this Parliament, and also in the government programme, have made very good records, but almost every time bureaucracy increases, however, when some EU legislation comes into being. But that continuation of the government programme, that is to say the streamlining of control and regulation, I really hope that we will look at it very carefully in committee and do everything that can then be done. As far as the grey economy is concerned, it is only natural that we should look at it in this sector too, as the Minister pointed out in his presentation. In the case of counterfeiting of the shadow economy, this is a highly acceptable ground. But here too I ask the Minister when it comes to organic farming, about production. This also includes animals in particular, and this suggests that the animals are also at the heart of it. My question is this: could we, on condition that those beaks and pigtails naturally belong to animals and then be kept in other meat production in the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u143	Thank you. — Ledamot Norrback, var vanlig.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u144	Tack, thank you, Mr President. The government proposal is largely good. The reform is quite technical, but at the same time it harmonises the EU's new organic production, and it is good. I personally believe that all organic producers should be on the same footing, and that is what this proposal aims to achieve. The new regulation will give us a little better opportunity to deal with possible omissions, which is important and good for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u145	Mr President! I think this organic farming is the most closely guarded industry in this country. I understand organic farmers, because everything they do is under enormous control. I have discussed matters with a few organic farmers, and I must have wondered if this is true. As I have said in previous speeches, if we want a genuinely better employment in this country, we must dismantle this bureaucracy. It makes no sense that there is starting to be such a situation that this entrepreneur himself is in such control that he could narrow-mindedly say that he is almost a criminal person, when every matter is watched, even surface areas are measured. I have, as I said, discussed this issue with a few farmers, and they are quite, in a way, frustrated at the fact that they cannot be so suspected of almost everything that has been done wrong, even though the Finnish farmer is certainly of the world's top class. We have the cleanest soil in the world, the cleanest atmosphere in the world, the cleanest groundwater in the world, and from these points of view we will certainly be able to make wonderful products. It is hindered only by Finnish envy and bitterness that it is not allowed to be done properly, but rather by bringing in European cheese, even if it contains the famous traces of medicines and antibiotics. One dog jaw, such a humorous young man, doubted whether it would be worth moving on to eating German cheese and eating European cheese, while at the same time getting that antibiotic residue in itself, so these diseases do not occur so often. But I didn't recommend it to him because it's dangerous. So I ask Minister Leppa when he is here with merit: is there any hope that this rather large bureaucracy on the agricultural side will be dismantled at least in some respects? During the Sipilä government, these standards were abolished. If I remember correctly, a little over 300 of them were dismantled. Is there any hope that we can get this line started?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u146	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u147	Mr President! In Finland, basic food production is already very organic. We use less antibiotics than normal, less pesticides. We are investing more and more in promoting animal welfare. Now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask: how can we, Mr Leppä, get this message, this message of clean food, better for our own consumers? It is still not quite clear — that it is in the interests of all our citizens, that we buy domestic food, that there is enough on the shelves, domestic food, available. And how do we get this message about the foods we market abroad, that the awareness will grow there too, that we have great food production, clean food? And just as Mr Hoskonen raised this huge jungle of bureaucracy, it is driving many producers to the brink of madness. It's just gotten impossible. It has by no means decreased very much, quite the contrary. Will it be all a bureaucratic demand from the EU, or could we be able to influence this issue here in the country that there is not so much? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u148	Thank you. — And Mr Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u149	Mr President, Minister! As far as these EU issues are concerned, it was pointed out that some other countries have more of these traces of medicines in cheese and others, but why are we not demanding that there be the same everywhere? If we need to be at the same level in the EU, it cannot be that elsewhere in the EU is done in the same way, and then we have so precise. They must now have the same starting point. So what can be done about this? And if you think about this, how to get more of those Finnish things for sale and view, even though they have been added, that there is domestic production and other things, could it be even more significant when it is not necessarily visible in all the products? Is the government planning to place much greater emphasis on the trade in which products are domestic and where they come from? Why is the Finnish producer doing so badly? And why does a French country in the EU take the bigger money? There's something wrong here, isn't there? I would like some of these clarifications from the Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u150	Thank you. — Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u151	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for being here with the Minister. A few things: As has already been mentioned in the proposal, it is largely technical, so I am not going to go into it. I would like to ask the Minister a question about the image of agriculture in general. Too much in Finland at the moment thanks to the government’s greenboard policy, farmers get wet rags on their faces. Examples can be found: our capital, which, in my opinion, is not a good development. Producers and farmers are the cornerstone of our food security and a really important group, so would such a — just as a tip to the minister — the government’s shared Trust in the Finnish farmer and producer programme be in place at this point? Yes, we should get the credit where the grub is produced and so prominently that every farmer and producer there at home could proudly stand up in the morning to see that we have bread, meat, milk, all possible good domestic food at the table. I would suggest that this kind of a thank-you campaign now be there, not just a wet rag, and this would probably benefit everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u152	Thank you. — Minister Leppä, 3 minutes from the location.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your good comments and questions. Representative Reijonen here started in an excellent way, i.e. domestic production, food production, food security. That's our security of supply. It's our self-sufficiency. It's our economy. It's regional development. It's everything. Security, too. We fully agree on this, and that is what we are working on. Well, what have we done about it? We have ensured, through long-term action, that the promised support banks have come. They have been secured, and their arrival for the next seven years has been secured, and this provides the basis for Finnish food production. This does not ensure profitability, but it creates the basis for that production, and that is why it is important that there is no need to live in that uncertainty. — I shall return to the market in a moment. Local food: Absolutely agree, local food to honor. That's the way it's supposed to be. Origin labelling: I also agree that the labelling of origin must continue to be strengthened, that the standard of origin labelling should be increased. How, then, is it really done there, for example, on the purchasing side of municipalities? Ladies and gentlemen, you are a great many people and we are very many decision-makers in the municipalities, representatives of the municipalities. Let us all ensure that there is no food supply to the municipalities that does not meet the requirements of our own producers. This is the least we can do — the least we can do. Everyone, look after your own municipality's decision-making that this is going to happen. For the government, this is mandatory. When the state acquires food, it must always meet the conditions required by us in Finland. For the municipalities, which are self-governing units, it is a recommendation, but that is why I say: look after these. This is also related to what Mrs Myllykoski said about soots and pigtails. That's right. I don't understand why we want to bring pig meat without pigtails or chicken meat without beaks. Why? There is no advertising to welcome to the purchase of pig meat without a pig, but it still comes to this country. I also look forward to trade and very strongly on this issue. This creates the imbalance in the market: we are competing with products that have not been allowed to be produced here and whose production is much cheaper, and yet they are in the same market. This doesn't lay the groundwork for it. With regard to profitability, the fact that the trade has provided positive performance warnings, but farmers are whistling with the increased costs, the poor harvest year — it is not enough. This is why the balance of the market is
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u154	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. Minister Leppä, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Let's move on to the same topic. Just now there were also questions relating to this legislation, which was now being dealt with. So this is now a proposal to Parliament to amend the legislation on veterinary medicine and the practice of veterinary professions. This bill, too, is intended to implement the national controls required by the new EU regulations on veterinary medicinal products and medicated feed in relation to the use of medicinal products. And the legislation is to come into force at the end of January next year, at the same time as the application of the EU regulation on veterinary medicinal products and medicated feed. This new regulation on veterinary medicinal products repeals the current directive on veterinary medicinal products. The acts that will be adopted directly in the EU Regulation will have to be removed from national legislation. This change will reduce the need to regulate matters at national level in the future, but we certainly want to regulate certain things at national level. It has to do with the recent debate on food safety, which we have the best food safety in the world. Antimicrobials, such as antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and protozoals: Antimicrobial resistance is a big, significant, also of concern. It produces bacteria that no longer have antimicrobial activity. Antibiotic resistance refers to the ability of bacteria to resist the effects of antibiotics. In the regulation on veterinary medicinal products and medicated feed, prevention of the development of resistance is central, and this is also central to the government's proposal. The Veterinary Regulation imposes restrictions on the use of antimicrobials and will require further data collection on antimicrobials used in animals. In Finland, data collection is intended to start at the same time when the law enters into force for all farmed and kept animal species, as this will ensure the quality and comparability of the data required by the veterinary regulation. This information is to be collected from veterinarians and wholesalers, not animal owners. Data collection will enable the use of antimicrobials to be steered in a more justified direction, as guidance and monitoring can be targeted where they are most needed. The regulation on the rights and obligations of the retail sale of medicinal products is also central to the regulation of veterinary medicinal products. In Finland, like pharmacies, a veterinarian would have the right to receive uninterrupted medicines from wholesalers. The right of the veterinarian to donate and sell medicines for the treatment and follow-up treatment of the patients he treats would remain the same and the veterinarians would not continue to act as retailers like pharmacies. Mr President! In Finland, the total sales volumes of antibiotics are only one fifth of the EU average, i.e. only one fifth of the EU average. In other words, according to the strategic objective of the Government Programme, this paragraph has been well achieved — as it has been for a long time. Thanks to small numbers, Finland shines larger than its size in the world, as an example in the world. In addition, over the past ten years, the total sales of antibiotics used in animals have already fallen further from moderate use. However, antibiotic resistance exists wherever antibiotics are used and, despite our good situation, we will have to take every possible measure to further reduce the use of antibiotics in the future. In Finland, only a veterinarian can issue a prescription for veterinary medicinal products and medicated feed. However, the aim is to clarify the legislation by transferring this right from the law on veterinary practice to the law on veterinary medicine, so that all veterinary rights and obligations relating to the use of veterinary medicinal products will continue to be in one piece of legislation. The prescriptions for veterinary medicinal products and medicated feed will continue to apply throughout the European Union and veterinary surgeons will have to comply with the provisions of the veterinary and medicated feed regulations as regards the information content of prescriptions for medicinal products. Antimicrobial prescriptions will continue to be valid for only five days after they are given, but for other veterinary medicinal products the prescription periods will need to be set at national level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u156	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Kalmari absent. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u157	Mr President! Antimicrobials play an important role in the treatment of infectious diseases in animals. On the other hand, the use of antimicrobials presents its own challenges, such as the emergence of resistance. Its prevention is therefore an essential objective. This government proposal relates to a wider package of veterinary medicines and it is to be welcomed that this issue is being promoted at EU level. Of course, the situation in Finland is already quite good. However, I would still like to draw attention to the collection and recording of data and the possible additional costs. Input of information may cause further difficulties for the veterinarian and challenges may arise in the compatibility of the software. Nevertheless, the proposal as a whole is good as it aims, among other things, to promote access to veterinary medicinal products and to prevent the risk of developing antimicrobial resistance. Nor is it a secret that in some EU countries animal medicine is quite reckless, which may also affect Finnish consumers. This also applies to the use of medicated feed. With regard to peat, which has been a curse word for many of us recently, I would like to say because there is talk of antibiotics and animals in this context that peat is very excellent in its properties for the well-being of animals' feet. In other words, there is nothing to replace the peat. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u158	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u159	Mr President! Now I have to say that Mr Elomaa took away 50 % of my speech — so I am not going to repeat it, excellent speech — and ended with just the right thing: we all have white meat growing on peat and feeling well because there are no bacteria in it that would then be harmful. This is how you avoid medication. But most importantly, the regulation on veterinary medicinal products prevents the risk of developing antimicrobial resistance and harmonises the legislation of the Member States — a very good objective. I would like to remind Mr Leppää at this stage that we must not be content with this, because it is our great export asset for agricultural products, especially for animals. We cannot say that, now that the EU has been so well integrated, we would not use the excellent example of what Minister Leppä has pointed out. We must demand what we already have. The starting level that is now being created here must not be satisfied, but we must be pioneers and try to get us – although trade policy certainly cannot be influenced by any legislation – to achieve better prices for products above the minimum level. But the consumer will understand when it is told what a significantly lower risk is when Finnish meat or meat products are used. Let us hope that we do not forget that we are a salmonella-free country and do not use antibiotics. We do not use antibiotics in milk production except for a moment, only to treat that disease, and that is something we must continue to have the capacity to do. And it was a joy to hear how well we have moved on from a good level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u160	Thank you. — Ledamot Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u161	Tack, thank you, Mr President. The proposal to amend the legislation on veterinary medicinal products is to a large extent technical, as has been pointed out. However, I would like to mention a few words about our animal and meat production, which has given rise to quite a lot of debate recently. We are faced with major issues when we are discussing matters relating to animal welfare and welfare. We are constantly improving the ethics and practices of animal production, and this is important. Controlled and responsible medical treatment is part of animal welfare, and the Finnish system and the Finnish producer feel very well that this is the case. We should be proud of this good work that we are doing in Finland in the field of food production, and I see that Finland as a country has the potential to continue growing as a food producer, precisely because of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Veterinarian services are already very expensive, especially for low incomes and pensioners, just because of this 24-surface VAT. Now that Minister Leppä, whom I have so much appreciated, is here, I would like to ask you: If and when this law goes to the finish line, will veterinary prices increase even more for consumers? And the fact that this law will then add even more red tape to the vets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u163	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u164	Mr President! It is quite right that these issues of bacterial resistance should be given a great deal of attention both in the European Union's own decisions and, of course, here in Parliament's decisions, and this is, of course, a question of implementing the EU's guidance. But that is something we should consider at national level, as the Minister mentioned in his own presentation. The fact is that if we genuinely want to maintain our public health at a good level, we must pay healthy attention to this veterinary sector. Of course, the diseases must be treated away from the animals. It is quite clear that animals must not suffer, and if a disease strikes, it will be treated and it will be done. The representative, Elomaa, gave an excellent speech on the status of dry peat in Finland. It is incomprehensible that in this country such an inconceivable peat hysteria has taken place. If we run out of peat, we'll run out of chicken production immediately. You can't grow chickens if you don't have that antiseptic turf on the floor of the broiler plant. After each batch, after the batch has left the slaughterhouse, the broiler farm will be cleaned, the peat removed, disinfected, and then the new, clean peat will be spread, and the future new stock of animals that will be brought to it will be well and healthy. If antibiotics are used to treat it, production is immediately unprofitable and it stops. If the farmer does not stop it himself, the financiers will stop it. The same applies to milk production: if we do not make rational use of bedding peat, we will be in trouble immediately. The same applies to pigs, the same applies to chickens. It is completely incomprehensible that in this country there has been a fuss about the fact that peat is supposed to be the worst thing in the world — and above all the public word has gone along with it. Since peat is our great wealth, it is used. Now at the Glasgow climate conference, our big heads of light are screaming straight that peat must be banned all over the world. I wonder if they have not noticed that there is an ever-increasing increase in Europe in coal burning and in lignite burning. And now, which is absolutely scandalous, we are making natural gas green. Yes, I say that if this is the way in which the country's affairs are handled and European affairs are handled, there is no hope for this group. Recognition of the facts in this matter is certainly the best option and for the benefit of this nation. Otherwise, this nation will get hurt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u165	Thank you. — Minister Leppä, 2 minutes from the location.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you again for the good comments and also for a few questions that included this. — Let us start with this aspect of bureaucracy, which many of you raised in this and in this matter, and it is quite right that it should be on the table, and I encourage the committee to go through this aspect very carefully: Mr Elomaa was quite right that this should be coordinated with these other information systems so that this would not become a further bureaucracy. This is entirely possible, and this also answers the question that it should be done in such a way that it does not become an additional cost for the users of veterinary services, [Department: Good! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u168	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Minister Leppä, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u169	Thank you, Mr President. The third draft law of the same series, the same family as the others, and this amendment implements the regulation and national law resulting from the manufacture, placing on the market and use of medicated feed and amending the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and amending the Directive. The legislation on medicated feed is being streamlined — it has already come up on many occasions, as it is also a question of streamlining it — and also of aligning it with the legislation on other feeds. At the same time, of course, lower-level regulations are being updated. This law is also intended to enter into force at the end of January at the same time as the application of the EU Regulation on medicated feed. A few withdrawals from this proposal: The premises and approved blenders will be given the opportunity to prepare medicated feed for their own animals. A farm for farmage refers to a farm for fur animals that manufactures medicated feed with a blending plant for its own fur animals and a farm mixer, correspondingly, a farm for the preparation of medicated feed for its own food-producing animals. There are no provisions in the existing law concerning the production of space. In practice, it may be the case of pig farms, pig farms and fur farms which are classified as farm feed establishments. Cargo mixers can also manufacture medicated feeds. Freight blender means an operator who manufactures feed with mobile mill and blending equipment. There is no provision for this either in the existing law and there is no interest in it on the basis of surveys. The provisions for other commercial medicated feed manufacturers remain unchanged. The preparation of medicated feed for food-producing animals requires the approval of the operator concerned, the approval of the authority, i.e. the Finnish Food Agency. The requirement remains unchanged, but with the production of space, new operators will be subject to the approval obligation. The reporting obligation related to the domestic manufacture of medicated feed and the trade in the internal market will be reduced and harmonised, and the data will be reported annually to the Finnish Food Agency, on the basis of the current legislation on a monthly basis. As in the previous point, new operators will be subject to this reporting obligation, but the frequency of notifications will be reduced. There is also, of course, a need for national legislation here. Any mixture of feed and medicine is not medicated feed. Premixes are used in the formulation of medicated feed. The manual mixing of the medicinal product into feed or the administration of the medicinal product with water falls within the scope of the Animal Medication Act, i.e. this remains unchanged, but this is specified in both the EU Regulation and the law. In addition, the obligation for the Regional State Administrative Agency and veterinary surgeons with regard to medicated feed will be transferred to the Animal Medical Act and the proposal will also repeal the relevant Decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on medicated feed. The Ministerial Decree on feed business operators will also be amended in the same time frame as this Act is proposed for entry into force. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u170	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Kalmari absent. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u171	Mr President! I must now say for all of these, but here in particular that the EU ahead, Finland behind us. However, there is no need to criticise the aim of ensuring that animal feed does not pose a risk to animal or human health. So, the right direction, now it's good to move on. Not all evil comes from the EU, but there is indeed an important view here that this will continue to be the case. Minister Leppä raised the issue here, which I myself would have liked to take up in this speech. It is these farm feed centres and their ability to continue to function. However, here too, I hope that we in the committee will have this relationship between administration and control, that there will be more control and, when these tasks are transferred from one side to another, whether our bureaucracy, and hence the costs of producers, will increase in terms of control fees or other things that will then be done. It felt good when the minister said that the announcements were getting fewer. That's the right way. Let us see what can be done in committee on the basis of the consultations as to whether self-monitoring is possible, but in particular we must focus on the fact that this bureaucracy will not increase and the costs of producers will not increase as a result.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u172	Thank you. — Ledamot Norrback, var vanlig.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u173	Tack, thank you, Mr President. This proposal to amend the feed law is a welcome reform to improve feed safety. Feed is animal food and therefore an important product throughout the food chain. Feed should be safe for both animals and humans. The reform will be the responsibility of the Food Agency. The Finnish Food Authority has an important role to play in ensuring the entire food chain production. It is important that the work of the Agency is smooth and that farmers are instructed and specified how the regulations affect the work of farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u174	Mr President! This is another example of the implementation of the various regulations coming from the European Union here in Finland. It is good, of course, that the feed laws are updated, specifically to improve animal welfare, which is directly reflected in our daily bread and how good food we eat. When the raw materials are good, it is certain that excellent food produced in the Finnish food industry, for example in dairy products, will be produced on the Finnish table. That's the big deal. I am just wondering about the European Union's perspective on these issues. It is an old folk wisdom that the European Union should be big in big things and keep small things as small as possible. The best thing would be for it to be invisible in those matters, because I am a little concerned about this huge bureaucracy which is being put off for us. We are beginning to have this country in a situation like that, that can be said, if a little sarcasm is used, that there is a hugely good administration running things, then there is one profession that makes complaints, and then a huge amount of money goes into handling complaints, and then the ordinary taxpayer and the entrepreneur and the ordinary person try to struggle somewhere in the middle of the country how to do it. I would like to see an end to this bureaucracy. However, it is good for all MPs to remember that this is, however, paid for by the Finnish taxpayer, no one else. And when you start to tax off large sums of money from a small income, it means that the life of a Finnish family or a Finnish person living alone, a student or a retired person is difficult. As we move forward in this way, one day a motion will come back to Parliament that something should be paid for. These things should be brought to the right scale, and now there is a small scale lost in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u175	Thank you. — Mr Lundén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u176	Thank you, Mr President. The legislative act adopted by this Regulation instead of the Directive is now aimed at harmonising requirements in the various Member States. The proposal updates the feed law to reflect the current state of EU legislation and thus promotes feed and food safety and fair competition in the sector. The harmonisation and development of legislation in the food chain will also ensure the safety of products throughout the chain from field to table. Clear legislation increases the reliability of entrepreneurs and prevents unfair competition. I believe that all this is a positive development in the sector. Mr President! On the other hand, there is also a small risk that changes will result in cost increases for individual farms. However, these upcoming changes are likely to lead to reduced total levels of antimicrobial use. Therefore, the regulations also tighten somewhat the rules for the use of antimicrobials in animals in order to better prevent the risk of antimicrobial resistance in the EU. Mr President! In the big picture, I see this regulation now only as being very good for food safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u177	Thank you. — Minister Leppä, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u178	Thank you, Mr President. A minute's good enough. Thank you for your excellent contributions. Two things: It is quite true that this regulation, all in all, balances the market, as others are asked to come closer to what we in Finland have been accustomed to doing for a long time. This is really important in that sense. And when this red tape issue came up here too — quite the same. Here, too, I would encourage you, the committee, to go through very carefully that there is not just any additional bureaucracy involved and that, where possible, it is combined and the information systems work together. And last remark: There was a lot of talk here about all these three things about how well things are in Finland. That's how they are. We will probably all remember that Finland won the World Cup in comparison with 156 countries on food security last spring. It is an indication of how things are with us. And this, which came as a performance, that “the Finnish producer”,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u179	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 15/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u180	Mr President! When the report was discussed, I was unable to take part in it, and now I would like to take the floor to emphasise that this report, which was done and was unanimous, was a very good, analytical committee and that is precisely what we are trying to do to address this unfortunate puppy factory and the dirty foreign dog trade that is taking place in this country. A very good government proposal, and it would be desirable, as has been the case in our deliberations, that, at this stage when the system is being built, then, hopefully, the ministry will go out to competition, whoever the controller will be, whoever wins it, this competition would have already taken into account the fact that the Animal Welfare Act has set a target for the registration of cats, so that it would be in 26 goals in the year, and that even at this stage the controller would be required that the software also bends to the entry into force of the Animal Welfare Act, so that the register also folds to the maintenance of the register of cats. What was in our statement is important that by the end of 24 C.E., the effects of this law are examined in such a way as to see whether this law has been fulfilled, that is, whether we have been able to interfere with the puppy factory and the import of illegal dogs and pets. Then we will certainly also be able to obtain clarification from Customs and others. Of course, it is a burden for the Ministry, but with a well-organised assignment we will certainly know whether we have been able to do so in this country to prevent breed dogs from being mated from each run, every other litter being registered and every other litter being sold through the hands without registration. I did some thinking earlier when it was discussed that this obligation for veterinarians to report may be negative for the welfare and care of animals, but, in conclusion, I think — just as we have drafted the report — that when the obligation for veterinarians to report comes, then we will be able to intervene in this illegal puppy factory. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u181	Thank you. — Representative Kalmari absent. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u182	Mr President! Finally here — Jesus! — the law relating to the identification and registration of animals. The Act 47, which I submitted in 2020, as a law on the identification and registration of dogs, will be dealt with in conjunction with the Government’s proposal 101/2021. Although my bill did not go through as such, the most important thing is that the matter itself should move forward. So basically dogs are coming in chips and dogs will be registered in the future. I have already asked my first written question on the subject in 2017. In 2020, in addition to the Act on the Identification and Registration of Dogs, I launched a measure initiative on the registration of cats. This would be a very necessary reform and would help, for example, to control the cat populations that ended up in the headlines this autumn. I hope that this will also progress in the case of cats in the context of the new Animal Welfare Act under way. The need is all the more urgent because there are so many problems with the treatment of cats. A lot of good will come from registration and identification. For example, illegal animal trafficking, import and puppy production are becoming more difficult, the animals found are more easily returned to their owners and, above all, responsible animal management would take a big step forward. That is, a thumbs up to the fact that progress is being made in the case of dogs, and while the same thing is being made for cats, I would be very pleased. Mr President! The actual government proposal concerns the identification and registration of animals and related laws. I really think it is important to protect human and animal health, to promote animal welfare and to improve food safety in controlling the places where animals are kept and the operators involved. A more effective control of the origin and movement of animals is also a welcome reform. At present, vague movements of animals are a major problem in the EU and should be addressed more rigorously. The extension of the scope of the law to the welfare of pet animals and the transport of pet animals between Member States is also a welcome reform, since illegal trade in animals is one of the main sources of income for organised crime in Europe. It must be contained in the fight against the shadow economy and in the interests of animal rights. This development has been very weak at EU level for years. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for her excellent speech on what we must do in the future: preparing laws for animal welfare for the next government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u183	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u184	Mr President! It is quite right that this puppy factory, which is unfortunately being carried out in this country, should be brought under control by this new legislation, which Mrs Elomaa has just enjoyed greatly. It seems that Mr Elomaa has studied the matter in depth, and it is a great thing that we can finally get this indiscretion in order. This puppy factory is then associated with the unfortunate phenomenon, as we all know, that dogs are imported from abroad, for example, and I just read in the newspaper that a dog had been imported from abroad, whether it had something like this serious disease in its mouth, some worm or whatever it was, but it still brings such diseases to Finland with these imported animals. When no one controls them and no one inspects them, then these diseases will spread to our own healthy dogs already here. This is not something to play with, because if people who engage in such activities have children in the family, for example, and then such a dog comes there, it can spread the disease even to the smallest ones in the family, and it can even be life-threatening. This has been played on in this country, but fortunately this law is now coming, and I wish this bill the best possible success. As soon as possible, we need to get this indiscretion out of the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u185	Thank you. — Minister Leppä, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for a good report and for the effort involved. There are a lot of things that fit in here. This obligation to register and extend it to cats in due course, as long as we first get the dogs there, is extremely important both in terms of the puppy production and in terms of illegal imports, and also in terms of animal welfare, when we know the owner. And this is also a public health issue, just as Mrs Hoskonen said last time and many of you raised this same issue. It is extremely important that we also ensure that these animals brought here do not spread diseases that are dangerous to us, even life-threatening. We want to maintain this good animal health situation in Finland and we do not allow it to be threatened by illegal imports. This is also the fight against the shadow economy to a very large extent, in other words, there are many things in common here. Thank you to Parliament for a very good job and supplement to the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u187	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Conversation. Representative Sipilä, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u188	Mr President! This proposal deals mainly with a capital loan used by SMEs. According to Article 50(3)(2) of the Income Tax Act in force, the loss of a security that can be regarded as final for bankruptcy or other comparable reasons is also equal to the loss of disposal. This current wording and interpretation of Article 50 of the Income Tax Act is linked to a lack of consistency between the loss of a capital loan in the same situation and the loss of value of a capital loan in the same way as the loss of value of a security. An individual who has invested in a limited liability company which is thus unquote and later, for example, in a corporate restructuring is not entitled to deduct his loss of capital from taxation. This environment for SME financing has changed significantly. In practice, the role of banks as a risk finance provider has been left out of the range of SMEs. Demands to strengthen equity, especially in investment situations or to finance strong growth, have become stricter, but even in crisis situations such as interest rates, it is necessary to strengthen equity to overcome the crisis. In practice, the entrepreneur has two options in this situation. First of all, you can increase your external ownership. In this respect, the fear of entrepreneurs is that they will lose their entrepreneurial status, and not many entrepreneurs want to have outside ownership of their businesses in this type of growth finance. Or the entrepreneur can use intermediate financing, which often is a capital loan. It increases the solvency of the company, improves the conditions for obtaining a bank loan and does not remove its ownership if this loan is taken out in due course. However, a capital loan has not reached a position where it could at best be a financial instrument for SMEs. This is because, unlike, for example, a quoted security or an investment in a share capital in a non-listed limited liability company and later, for example, a private investor in a corporate restructuring company is not entitled to deduct this loss in taxation from a capital loan. This is something that sounds small, but when it is corrected, I believe that the financial position of SMEs will also improve in this respect. Mr President! If, for some reason, there is no progress in the committee and here in Parliament, then I hope that the Minister of Finance will catch up and correct this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u189	Thank you for the floor. — Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u190	Mr President! Representative Sipilä can be regarded as a pioneer in the development of the provision of Article 50 of the Income Tax Act, since during his term of government this provision was substantially improved. In the past, the loss resulting from the disposal of assets could only be deducted in the year of the transfer and in the three following years. During Sipilä's term of government, that period was extended from three to five years, and perhaps even more significant, if that was not successful, it is already possible in the year of the transfer to reduce the loss of other capital income from dividends, rental income of dwellings, the result of forestry, the share of corporate income in capital income and so on. Of course, this was a really big reform. I support this initiative by Mr Sipilä. Of course, this would significantly and need to improve the role of a capital loan as an investment instrument and would be very important for start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises. I agree with all those arguments, which is what the representative is saying. The Sipilä presented, and the arguments were so good that I would be surprised if the Minister of Finance, Saarikko, did not seize this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u191	Thank you. — Mr Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u192	Mr President! I would also like to thank the representative. Ciprias for a very good bill. Like Mr Kiviranta, I would be surprised if the Minister of Finance did not take up this issue now, because this has been on the agenda for a long time. As long as I have cooperated and dealt with Finnish Entrepreneurs, this has always been raised. Now would be the time to put this right, and I warmly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u193	Thank you. — And Mr Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u194	Mr President! Of course, the entrepreneur himself can make a capital loan to his company if that is possible. Another option for an entrepreneur is to invest in a so-called free capital fund. Legislation enables this flexible instrument to be used in exactly the same way in these situations of strong investment or company growth. The idea of this instrument is that it is a temporary investment that will be taken out of the company no later than 10 years after the company improves. Now in the corona era there was quite a lot of feedback from companies that when the operating environment changed significantly, this 10-year time limit became a problem. After all, when this 10-year limit expires, it becomes a permanent share capital investment and cannot be returned from it as it was originally intended. Therefore, when assessing this change in the capital loan, one might also wonder whether this simple 10-year time limit could be another for this invested free capital fund.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u195	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of one hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on 16 and 23 of the order of business. on the subject. I'm opening a conversation. Mr Östman, please present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u196	Mr President! In this speech, according to the order of business, I will present the following nine legislative initiatives relating to the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats for 2022. I hope that the clock can now stretch a little, because here ten minutes may be short, but I will try my best. We are now living in a post-corona boom, but it may be short. Nevertheless, our public finances continue to be in debt. The chronic sustainability gap must be strongly addressed by investing both in employment and in the well-being of families with children and young people. Although the government’s budget for next year is generous, the needs of ordinary Finns and many special groups, such as mental patients and celiacs, have still been forgotten. Not all the stones for improving employment have been turned around. In the first legislative initiative, it is proposed to amend the VAT Act to increase the lower rate of VAT for small enterprises to EUR 20000 from the current EUR 15000. The increase made by the government was a good change, but there is more room for increase. In Italy and Austria, for example, the lower limit is EUR 30000 and in the UK it is more than EUR 80000. A larger increase in the lower limit will significantly facilitate the management of the company and will help small and secondary entrepreneurs in particular to meet their obligations. Mr Sari Tanus' bill proposes to amend the Act on disability benefits so that the dietary allowance for celiac patients is reinstated. The coeliac allowance would be EUR 31 per month and could be paid at the same time as disability allowance or care allowance. Mr President! Representative Antero Laukkanen's bill introduces an amendment to the Act on the State's Contribution to the Basic Services of the Municipality by increasing the amount of the State's contribution to basic education organised by a non-municipality, so that it would be paid in full to all education providers. At present, the inequality in funding for basic education is significant, as municipalities also have the opportunity to invest in basic education also in municipal tax returns that other education providers do not have at their disposal. Mr President! The birth rate of Finns has long been record low. The trend of the long-term decline in birth rate has not disappeared, although small positive signs were seen during the current year. The representative's initiative to amend Article 7 of the Child Benefits Act proposes an increase of EUR 10 per month in the level of child supplements. A level increase would be made for all child allowances regardless of the number of children in the family. Representative Päivi Räsänen's bill to amend Article 92 of the Income Tax Act proposes that the allowance for informal care be added to tax-free social benefits. In-house care is the most economical and often the most human and the best form of care for both the care provider and the carer. According to the study, the calculated value of the work done by family carers was approximately EUR 1.7 billion in 2013. Support for informal care must be one of the key measures to reduce institutional care. The tax exemption from informal care support would also make it much easier for the family carer and the person being cared for and would make informal care more accessible. Mr President! During the autumn, Finnish fuel costs have increased significantly. The increase in prices will also entail significant additional costs for the transport sector and thus other consumer prices. The government's tax increase generally increased diesel and petrol prices by between 6 and 7 cents per litre. The increase in fuel tax and the rise in fuel prices hit the Finnish export industry and transport companies directly. Mr Laukkanen's bill proposes that the increase in the fuel tax introduced by the Government's decision in August last year be withdrawn and the Annex to the Act on excise duties on liquid fuels be amended to reflect the content of the previously existing annex. Mr President! KD hasn't forgotten the therapy guarantee. Is it the government? Päivi Räsänen's Act No 45 proposes that, as outlined in the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative, the Health Care Act and Health Care Act should be supplemented and amended to ensure that short-term psychotherapy and other psychosocial short-term interventions are available for all age groups. There is currently no help for mental disorders, and situations are getting worse. Timely help for mental disorders saves both human and financial costs. Mr President! In the Act amending Article 95 of the Income Tax Act, it is proposed that the right to deduct labour market organisations' contributions in the form of a full income tax reduction is changed so that half of the members' contributions are deductible. The membership fees of social partners are expenditure resulting from the acquisition of income. These contributions may be deducted from the salary income in full and shall not be subject to a reduction of EUR 750. The tax deductibility of trade union contributions is difficult to understand from the past. Members of other non-profit organisations are also not entitled to deduct their membership contributions from taxation. In addition, some trade unions have holdings in which they operate on the free market in a business-like manner. The increase in tax revenue from halving the reduction is approximately EUR 90 million. Finally, Mr President, the unemployment rate in Finland is high and there is a shortage of labour, particularly in the low-wage sectors. There are incentive traps created by a broad support jungle in the labour market, which often make seeking part-time low-paid employment unprofitable. It is necessary to make the job more profitable. During the period of the Koronapandemia, the component of the unemployment benefit has been temporarily increased in line with the proposal of the initiative. The Government's proposal 120 states that the effects of the temporary increase have not been reliably assessed in such a short term. In the Sari Essayah Act on the amendment of Section 5 of Chapter 4 of the Unemployment Protection Act, the component of the unemployment benefit is proposed to be permanently increased to EUR 500 during the monthly conciliation period and to EUR 465 during the four consecutive calendar weeks conciliation period. The proposed change encourages activity even when full-time work is not available. The increased protection component of unemployment benefit enables the unemployed to improve their incomes by working and, on the other hand, allows them to maintain working life contact and skills in the search for full-time work. According to the surveys, those working during the unemployment period are more likely to be employed full-time than those who have been unemployed for as long. At the same time, the proposed change will make the unemployed more likely to become part-time jobs in sectors suffering from labour shortages. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u197	Thank you. It went well for less than ten minutes. — Mr Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u198	Thank you, Mr President! Mr Östman has already very well and comprehensively presented these legislative initiatives relating to the alternative budget of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but I would like to go a little further with regard to a few of these initiatives, why we now consider it very important that these initiatives should be dealt with seriously and that they should also be implemented. This initiative by Mrs Sari Tanus, which proposes that the coeliac allowance should be reinstated and that it should continue to be EUR 31 per month, is an initiative which, I understand, has received a great deal of support from Parliament. After all, from the beginning of 2016, the Government abolished this compensation. It is estimated that we have about 38,500 people with celiac disease who have been diagnosed — probably also undiagnosed celiac patients. According to the 2019 price survey, the cost of celiac treatment is EUR 59 per month, or EUR 708 per year, which is because this diet is more expensive for celiac patients than normal. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease. For a number of diseases of this kind, there is a medical treatment that society supports with the special reimbursement of medicines, but the only medicine for celiacs is an absolutely accurate gluten-free diet, and we therefore believe that it should be compared to the medical treatment prescribed by the doctor, and therefore these dietary benefits would also be fair. Celiac disease is also a hereditary disease, which means that in some families there may be many people with the same disease, and these food bills will be repeated and more expensive. It is therefore important that, for the sake of fairness and, of course, for the sake of the livelihood of these families, this compensation should be reimbursed. Then, Mr President, this bill for the amendment of the Child Welfare Act is also in the name of Mrs Sari Tanus, who was unable to present them here today. We therefore propose a smaller level increase in child allowances, EUR 10 per month, which would, above all, have a positive message for families with children that society wants to correct this real value of child benefit. Child benefit is a key means of supporting families with children, and the level of basic security for families with children is lagging behind overall cost development. According to a survey carried out by the Social Security Office, the real value of child supplements has fallen so that child supplements should be increased by as much as 47% to 68% of this year's level in order to reach the real level of 1994. Well, this proposal by the Christian Democrats would mean an annual increase of EUR 120 per child, on average, and would increase child supplement expenditure by EUR 115 million. And this is part of our balanced alternative budget, which will be published later. Then, Mr President, when Mrs Antero Laukkanen is not here, I would also like to raise this important legislative initiative of hers, namely the amendment of Article 38 of the Law on State aid for basic municipal services, which concerns basic education, in order to increase the compensation for the municipality of residence for the share of basic education not organised by the municipality to 100% in full. Thus, at present, the municipal education provider is being replaced by 100%, but the registered association or foundation, such as now Christian schools, is being replaced by 94 percent. After all, when the Christian Democrats were in the government, this percentage was raised, but unfortunately not quite the 100% which has been the objective of our party and of our parliamentary group, because the basic principle must be that basic education is free of charge for all. As early as 2014, the Education Committee called for fair funding for basic education, independent of the organiser. Similarly, the opinion of the Committee on Education and Culture issued in 2018 stated that ‘the consultation of the committee’sexpert suggested that the home allowance be made equivalent to that of all pupils in basic education,that it should be at And then, in the opinion of the committee, it was felt that since it is unclear what the greater responsibility of the above-mentioned private organisers of municipalities includes, what kind of calculations the 6% reduction is based on, then it would be good for the Government to clarify the matter and then take action if necessary. The cost of this proposal is estimated at EUR 10 million, and this is therefore included in the alternative budget. Mr President! Since I am running out of time, I will take one last floor from that seat to present these legislative initiatives in my own name.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u199	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u200	Mr President! Mr Räsänen set an example here of humility when he presented the initiatives on behalf of all others, but his own initiatives remained in that next speech. Mr President! Indeed, we now have these initiatives from the Christian Democrats, which relate to our balanced alternative budget, which will then be presented here in its entirety. It is important to bring these legislative initiatives into those committees now that they are being dealt with in the context of the budget laws. Mr President! First of all, I would like to present an initiative in my name to amend Chapter 4, Section 5 of the Unemployment Protection Act. The aim is therefore to increase this component of the unemployment benefit permanently to EUR 500 during the one-month conciliation period and to EUR 465 during the four consecutive calendar weeks conciliation period. After all, because of the covid we have had such an exceptional period, an exemption period until the end of this year, for which this component has been increased, and the Christian Democrats see it as important that this should be continued, because this date is now quite short to assess how much has been of use since this portion of the protection has been increased. All in all, this increase in the share of protection is important in such a way that it is one of the most important ways to dismantle these so-called incentives traps, which make it often unprofitable to seek unemployment, for example, for part-time or short-term work. All in all, we in Finland should always get paid for receiving the job. We are on the way to this parliamentary working group on the overall reform of social security, in which I myself am allowed to be involved, but it is quite clear that there is not yet any results coming from that working group this year, nor next year, so it is important that these issues can also be changed once and for all, with the benefit, and see what are the most difficult and incentive traps for each benefit. On this initiative of the Christian Democrats, it can also be said that at our party meeting this initiative was being promoted specifically by KD Young people, and they went to see what has happened in Germany to improve the profitability of taking up work. After all, these famous Hartz reforms have been made on the labour market, and there have been talks about these so-called ‘minijobs’, which have had to be compared with a small number of poor elements,askaminijobs have probably been compared to the fact that people have full-time work, but I think that these types of minijobs should be compared,have to be It is precisely from this point of view that I consider it important that people who are at risk of exclusion from the labour market should also have a way into the labour market. Mr President! Secondly, Mr Laukkanen's bill on the amendment of the Annex to the Act on excise duty on liquid fuels. This government proposal is currently in the Committee on Budgets, and it will have an impact of more than EUR 100 million for this year, which will therefore increase the cost of citizens when it comes to mobility. This is based on the fact that, at the very beginning of the government's term, this increase in energy taxes was made, EUR 250 million, which now, as it were every year, will bring its own level of increase. The Christian Democrats have made a logical proposal every year, with which we have then wanted to propose that each year's contribution should always be reduced in the alternative budget, and so we want to say that, in this situation, the costs of mobility, housing and labour in Finland should by no means go up. In that context, when there was a debate on the amending budget, I asked the Minister for Finance whether it would be possible now in this cyclical situation, when it is expected that this growth period will be a short slump in order to bring about the more sustainable growth, to increase the purchasing power of citizens by, for example, compensating for these increases, which have come to mobility, housing and employment. There would then be an income tax deduction that could compensate for these precisely in this final phase of the government's term of office, which would enable this growth to continue from now on. However, if we look at this situation in Finland’s economy — the framework has been broken, and the debt for the coming year is about to be taken out by billions — it is very worrying that we now have the 75% employment rate that we are trying to achieve is no longer enough to balance the state finances, because that balance has otherwise been thrown away. In other words, higher employment rates are already needed and should be reached at 78%, so it is all the time, as it were, that we should be able to pursue this responsible economic policy in the state economy. Mr President! Last but not least, I would like to remind you of this legislative initiative by Peter Östman, which I think he has briefly presented, which relates to this increase in the VAT threshold of EUR 20000 from the current EUR 15,000. Indeed, it was good that Finland was able to make that increase. For a long time we had this threshold in eight and a half thousand euros, and it was, or it is said, still a rather peculiar situation when compared with around Europeans: in many other EU Member States these thresholds are considerably higher. It is good that we have reached 15,000, but we still have a long way to go, for example, through France and now via Brexit, to the UK's lower borders, which are running there between 80000 and 90000. Mr President! This is also intended to improve employment, improve small businesses
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u201	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u202	Mr President! Why did I come here to talk about that bill by Mr Laukkanen on the withdrawal of the increase in excise duty on fuels — that is what it is in practice — I wanted to say a few words. I definitely support it and I think it is good. The price of fuel in Finland is so high that I received a message today from a woman from the southern bottom, and I would like to read it here, but it is no longer a very printable text. People are getting pretty tired of this fuel price. It takes up much of their purchasing power, and this has become a number of different communications. More have come from such persons who work in the care of the elderly in such a way that they go by night to visit the elderly who live at home. They go to give medicines and translate and help them, and much of them feel that they no longer receive this kilometer allowance when they travel around in their own car, even fuel costs. This fuel tax increase, which the government has made, should be cancelled. The second option is surely to go up the mileage payments that they are being paid. Another group that has become this group is such business name entrepreneurs who drive their own car. They must not, if I recall correctly, reduce expenses by more than half of this kilometer allowance. This high fuel price is already an incentive trap in itself, which means that working is no longer necessarily worthwhile if you have a long commuting or such work where the work is done in different localities and comes plenty of kilometres. I know a person who said this, and he told me that in their life situation he will have 80 euros less in his hand a month when he is on the card than if he were working when he took these fuel costs into account. In Lapland, in the province of long distances, this is quite unreasonable, this fuel price. I believe that it would encourage people to travel longer distances and take work longer if the price of fuel were lower, and I think this initiative by Mr Laukkanen is very good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u203	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u204	Mr President! The government raised taxes on fuels, but now an exceptionally good initiative has been taken, which indeed suggests that these increases in fuel tax should be cancelled. And that would be an incredibly good thing for them to be withdrawn, because it is now clear that Finland is still riding on rubber wheels. Goods travelling in Finland on rubber wheels, do not go all over the railways and neither metros nor others, but travel on rubber wheels, and it affects goods or passenger traffic in particular. It is so shocking to see, for example, that energy and other things are now imported from abroad, that foreign trucks may be driven, of course, and with foreign fuels, so somehow it seems strange that now this money and everything is drifting into the rest of the world, when we should specifically favour the Finnish and domestic thing. And it was precisely this fuel tax increase that the government made that was a bad mistake, but now it is possible to cancel, after such an initiative has been taken, so that I think the government should now take this as a matter of course. Then when you look here on the Internet, you have made this kind of citizen's initiative, the corresponding thing about fuel tax moderation, and it has been signed by 95,000 people, almost 96,000 people. I mean, there's not that many people who can be wrong. Yes, this fuel tax increase must be withdrawn immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u205	Thank you. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u206	Thank you, Mr President! At the same time, I would like to thank the Bureau for this flexible approach. I would also like to thank the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland for supporting the initiative on fuel tax in Reijo and Mäenpää, and I hope that there will also be greater support for it. Indeed, the increase in fuel tax and the rise in fuel prices are hitting the Finnish export industry and transport companies directly. Moreover, just as has been said here, these increased fuel costs particularly affect working people in rural areas and then, of course, people with low incomes — and many others do. President! I would like to introduce a little more deeply my bill on access to informal care as a tax-free social benefit. Our parliamentary group and our party have long tried to influence this in order to move in that direction. The minimum amount of informal care support in 2020 was EUR 408 and 9 cents per month. This is a small benefit, and many family carers, who are quite often older pensioners themselves, are surprised that this small aid still has to pay the tax. Support for informal care should be one of the most important measures to reduce institutional care, and now that we are living in a time when care debt, especially after this corona pandemic, has increased and we have a shortage of carers in the country, which is threatening to escalate in the years to come, we cannot afford to let go of these carers who are now doing valuable work. In other words, family care and family carers should be supported in a very special way during this period in order to be able and motivated to do their valuable work. According to the last estimate, the total cost of informal care support was EUR 450 million per year, but the calculated value of the work done by family carers is approximately EUR 1.7 billion. In-house care is the most economical and often the most human and the best form of care for both the care provider and the carer. However, the minimum fee paid to the nurse is low and does not correspond to the demanding nature of the work and the binding nature of the work. At the same time, I would remind you that informal care is a whole and support for informal care is only part of it. Often, from the point of view of the carer, the other forms of support, as well as the possibility for the carer to keep free and also to have family care taken care of from time to time, are very important for coping. And now during the corona period especially family carers have been tough because often such daytime activities as well as these interval treatments have been reduced. Then, Mr President, this second initiative in my name concerns the mental health law, and it proposes that these new paragraphs be added to the mental health law, as set out in the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative. The need for mental health services has increased and, at the same time, the availability of mental health services has deteriorated. At the moment, there really is not enough help for mental disorders, situations are getting into crisis, they are getting too far. Timely low-threshold mental health support would save both human and financial costs. It could help prevent loss of working capacity and ability to study, for example, but these effective short-term interventions based on research evidence are not sufficiently available in public mental health services. However, it has been said that these problems can be tackled and affected in good time. This is precisely the kind of short-term psychotherapy in public health care and other psychosocial short-term interventions available to all age groups, all mental health problems and all over our country. There would be no need for a specialist diagnosis, no need for a referral, i.e. it would be precisely these low-threshold services that would be easily accessible, and this treatment could be provided by professionals at the mental health centre. After all, there has been a lot of debate here in Parliament, and with this initiative we want to be able to speed up and thus promote equality between citizens, because the problems of mental health currently discriminate between citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u207	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u208	Mr President! There are now a number of legislative initiatives on the table and, among other things, a bill on state aids and their modification. It is obviously the case now that, when the State grants these contributions, it gives these contributions to municipalities. But this system is a little miraculous: even in many municipalities it is not really known what these are based on, on what basis these grants and aids are obtained. I usually wonder that if you compare that I go to the store and I buy bread and candy there, then I get a receipt from there: that bread cost 3 euros, candy paid the euro. The receipt shows where the money went and where it was spent. Well, here in the country when it is decided to give municipalities money for informal care — when one initiative raised the issue of informal care — then give them money for informal care, the amount will be visible there and the amount of money they give and where they go. But what on earth happens in the middle? That money doesn't necessarily go to family care. How on earth can there be such a system that between this kind of system, where does it disappear and where does it change purpose and the municipalities can spend that money for some other purpose, even if for some kind of road maintenance? Of course, roads are important too, but if that money were given to something, it would be assumed that it should also be used for it. I feel that quite a few councilmen in municipalities and cities do not know that this system is like this, that here statues that are given money for some kind of informal care, as some government period back was given money for informal care, but, how could it be, when research was done and asked about the municipalities, so that money had not been used in all municipalities for informal care? How could it be like this? Somehow there is much to improve in Finland. If you think about the future — the future of these welfare areas — then you have to be quite careful with this control, that money is directed to the right places and that it actually goes where it is meant to be. And especially this informal care is such a thing that carers have more to do than control things like this. They're so far out of control, of course, you have to defend your family carers in spirit and blood. It's important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u209	Thank you. — Let us now try to stick to these legislative initiatives. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-10-ps-131.u210	Mr President! Yes, Mr Reijonen has paged two legislative initiatives here, and on this initiative of informal care, I would like to make it clear that, since this initiative of ours does not now go through the state units of these municipalities, it would be as if this financial benefit were directly paid for by this family carer, which means that he would receive tax-free support for this informal care which the municipality would pay for, in that way there would be no problem with this initiative of informal care. But surely it would also be good to develop this whole support system for informal care in such a way that those who care and care for their relatives in all municipalities are on an equal footing, just as families who receive home care support, for example. In this respect, I hope that this tax exemption initiative will proceed. - Thank you.
