ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u2	Congressman Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u3	Mr President! Many citizens are concerned about what happens to the social services they need, as a result of the social welfare reform. In Eastern and Northern Finland, in particular, municipalities are already large and after years of municipal mergers they are already long journeys to the city centre. The Sote reform does not include a local service guarantee, but instead considers what is to be done with municipal empty social services properties. At the moment, many older citizens wonder how far they can get from home and their loved ones when their condition deteriorates so that they can no longer live in their own home, or how far they can travel to a health centre. Good government, what do you say to the concerned citizens? How far can a citizen have to travel from home to get to a health centre, and how far can an elderly person have to move to get a place to live in services, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u4	Thank you. — And Minister Kiuru will be there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u5	Mr President! The congressman asked me how quickly. That has been a problem in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u9	Mr President! The regional councils in the well-being regions have a very ungrateful role to play. Is this the reason why regional councils are not elected like other supranational institutions? Representatives of other supranational institutions are elected by municipal councils and thus even the smallest municipalities receive at least one representative of the institution. However, this does not happen in welfare district councils. Why? Does the government want to facilitate the dismantling of services in small municipalities by not having a face in the form of a representative appointed by the municipality? Good Government, why does the social welfare proposal not include a guarantee of at least one representative to the welfare council in order to guarantee the voting power of small municipalities? Do you not see this as a problem in terms of democracy and citizens' empowerment?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u10	Thank you. — And Minister Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u11	Mr President, Mr Henriksson too, I think. — Two years ago, there was a reform of the social economy in which elected decision-makers did not have the power, and it was found impossible in the Constitutional Committee. The elected people are responsible for both funding and services, and that is how the democracy of the citizens actually improves, because they can directly vote on the decision-makers who then decide both on the service network and on the quality of the services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u12	Minister Henriksson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u13	Mr President! This is an important question, because now that a new system is being created in Finland, it is of course important that citizens, citizens of the municipality, also feel it is theirs. And that is why we all have a great deal of work ahead of us so that we can get people to vote, and a lot of work needs to be done on that and on that. But to this question itself. After all, it is precisely the decision-makers who want to be in the region, the citizens, who want to be in the region. And we have not been able to go into a system that can guarantee that there will be at least one in every municipality. This has been considered and viewed, but no solution has been found to make it work. Instead, everyone in the region is now given the opportunity to vote for whom they want to vote in the whole region, and it also gives a good candidate in a small municipality a chance. These direct elections are also important
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u14	Thank you. — And Mr Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u15	Mr President! The preparation of the regional tax will begin in the Ministry of Finance in the coming July and will be completed by the end of 22. As Finland’s overall tax rate is already at the top of the world and the regional tax will focus on employment, i.e. earned income, I believe this will lead to a further tightening of wage and salary earners’ income tax. And when pay fails, more and more working people will have to rely on various social support. In addition, many will consider not working at all in the future, since the county tax takes bread out of the table. My question, Mr Government, is the introduction of a regional tax increasing or reducing employment which has not been paid with tax resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u16	The Minister of Finance is not here. Any answers? - Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u17	Mr President! No such estimate has been made, because we do not have a model of county tax, we do not. We have plans for phase two in the future to consider whether there will be other tasks for the provinces, and if so, what is the financing model, and we will also go over this tax issue. But we do not have it at the moment, and you have all dealt with the proposal that has this funding model in which these provinces start to move. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u19	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u20	Mr President! This is like a giant municipal union — a gigantic municipal union. My argument is that half of the municipality's duties and half of the municipality's money are being taken away. So they're being taken away from the decision-makers. And it is shocking to see that there will be no decision-makers from small municipalities. What's the next step? It's a big change. I am particularly concerned about ordinary people who need wards, health centres. What about the family nurses? The family carers have certainly now been forgotten because this change does not improve their position. Today, municipal decision-makers decide the fate of informal care, now this is transferred to the provinces. In other words, the status of a family carer does not change, they do not become national. There is still no guarantee for everyone that there will be stable support for informal care, and there will still be no tax-free support for informal care. Have you ever wondered whether the support for informal care could be done in such a way that it would be fair for all and would be tax-free,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u21	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u22	Mr President! The Minister of Finance is not here, but I am not taking a stand on this tax issue. Otherwise, on this issue, it was as if it was suggested that the preparation for social and health care reform, which is at the very end of the line here in Parliament, should also include improvements in informal care. It is not a substance law, it does not provide services for the elderly, it is a question of how the services will be handled in the future. The representative suggested that municipalities are currently carrying out these tasks, and the responsibility for organising is there, but only 75 municipalities in Finland carry out this important task independently. Yes, the world has gone in the direction that cooperative regions and joint municipal authorities are currently managing them, and decision-making has become more and more distant from those democratic models. This is precisely the reason why it is considered that Finland is moving from this current municipal network and these organisers to having to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u23	Thank you, time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u24	Mr President! In the social welfare reform, the fate of social services has been much less focused on health services. The government's unfinished social welfare reform leaves the fate of, for example, workshops and, on the other hand, work activities unresolved. Now we are moving the services of TE operations to municipalities, but at the same time the government's social welfare reform will prevent us from being able to organise workshops or work in our municipalities. Workshop activities and work activities have an extremely important rehabilitative effect: it is important for many young people and for many who are trying to return to work. So we are pulling the carpet from under these people who desperately need this rehabilitative work and also work in workshops. How does the government intend to solve this problem? This is what has been left in this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u25	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u26	Mr President! As I said just now on the previous issue of informal care, the responsibility for organising is now being transferred from municipalities to welfare areas and the entire future orchestra is being played by state funding, so to speak. That is what this is all about. This large frame legislation does not yet take a position on all the details that require substance laws. That is why it makes sense that if we took over 100 substance laws here and tried to do all this and all the amendments to the substance laws at the same time, it would not be possible in this democratic four-year cycle. That is why we also have to make substantive changes to university hospitals — before anyone can ask them — when the time comes. First, we have to get the last word from Parliament, and on Wednesday, I think it's going to come to this group itself, and then we'll go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u27	Congressman Hassi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u28	Mr President! Even though the social welfare reform is progressing, for a year and a half the social welfare system is still in the municipalities. Free contraception is a proven effective means of simultaneously reducing abortions and sexually transmitted diseases and thereby reducing the cost of health care and improving health. In Vantaa, abortions of under 20-year-olds decreased by over a third when the city began offering young people free of charge spins and contraceptive implants. On the other hand, the number of chlamydia infections decreased by one third. Free contraception strengthens the health and sexual rights of young people. If prevention costs, the majority of the costs will fall on girls and women, and not everyone can afford it at all. The Government Programme states that a free-of-charge prevention experiment will be started for under 25-year-olds. However, the aid promised to the municipalities has been delayed several times. I ask Minister Kiuru: when will the free prevention experiment begin?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u29	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u31	Thank you. — And Mr. Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u32	Mr President! Just as Minister Kiuru said, next Wednesday will be an historic day in itself when we come here to vote on the fate of the social reform. I myself have thought about this from many points of view, and one thing is people in remote areas. I am thinking of the fact that this future law limits very much the way in which purchasing services, subcontracting and rental doctors can be used. So I wonder, for example, about a person living in a remote area who needs medical services. Even now, when doctors are not available, by what miracle are they better obtained under this law, since the use of rented doctors and purchasing services is being restricted? I would like to have an answer to this, and I believe that quite a few others — someone who lives there — would also like an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u33	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u34	Mr President! It is important to note that we have a shortage of doctors in Finland, but it does not evenly target all regions or regions of the same type and similar types of municipalities, and this means that the phenomenon is much more difficult than one might think quickly. At the same time, however, I believe that the statement by the representative that we are now making it difficult for doctors to obtain this reform of the social security system is perhaps worth stopping: is that really the case? Looking at this situation, we have 22 operators instead of the current organizer field. Is it more credible that these 22 players in Finland can get access to a doctor than this current network, where only about 75 municipalities are actually independently involved in this task? Yes, representative, now is the time to admit that the municipal-driven system has come to an end. This is already explained by the fact that the market has taken on a great deal of the role that should have been played in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u35	Thank you, time. — Mr Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u36	Mr President! At the committee hearing, the Finns tabled an amendment to remove the ten-year deadline for the abolition of the joint emergency services for day-to-day primary health care and special medical care at central hospitals in Western Ostrobothnia and Savonlinna, which would have allowed the operation of these hospitals to continue beyond 2032. Of course, the government parties did not agree to this. Mr Kiuru, you have recently promised, according to public information, that you will bring us a bill next autumn to secure the right of the Central Hospital of Western Ostrobothnia to maintain joint emergency services in the long term. Can you tell us and all the residents of Meri-Lap what this vague promise means in practice? So what is being kept, how long and will it be fully funded?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u37	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u38	Mr President! At present, these funding bases include funding for the two hospitals’ model. There have also been very misconceptions in public about this, and it was not intended to change the solution on this basis in the following years either. As far as the maintenance of the West Ostrobothnia Hospital and also the Savonlinna Hospital are concerned, the government parties are very united in that message. And quite rightly you quoted me: we will seek a permanent solution to the substance law and that will be done. Work was already started in case people did not get the wrong idea about this. We'll fix it. As I said, the proposal on social and health care reform is therefore a structural proposal. That's where the big picture gets fixed. And since we have so many laws in social and health care, these content laws are not being reformed at this stage, but first we agree whether this reform will be made, and then we will go ahead and update these individual laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u39	Congressman Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u40	Thank you, Mr President. The government is creating a new level of government for this six million empire. Is that what Finns need? [Satu Hassi’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u41	Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u42	Mr President! This package is a matter to be prepared under the auspices of the Minister for Finance, Saariko, and I am sure that we can return to this. In general, preparatory work is being carried out. A lot of details are still open, these will be clarified as the preparations go ahead, but the government's objective is that overall taxation should not therefore be tightened.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u44	Congressman Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u45	Mr President! The historic and expected social reform is finally coming to fruition, and we will be able to vote on it next week. At the very least, in the context of the debate on this process of social security, it has become clear how furiously the coalition is against it,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u48	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u49	Mr President! That's it. And I also think it is important that Parliament now retains this big picture on the horizon: what is being done and what is being done here. It concerns the reform of the century, the question of which forum and which responsible party will be able to organise these high-quality services that work equally for all in the future. When we look at the current municipal court, people have a personal experience that, for example, dental care works much better on the neighboring side, possibly getting a doctor works much better on the side of another municipality than on the part of the municipality where they live. This reality in which we live is not very equal, especially in view of the cost implications when a person is subjected to special medical care, especially the large ones in a small municipality. This task has already been abandoned in Finland for a large number of municipalities
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u51	Thank you, time- Congressman Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u52	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz tried here to ask how you guarantee that taxation will not rise. Well, the fact is, it's either going up and the customer fees are going up or you're making cuts. There are, of course, a terrible number of other options. [Right : Municipal tax rises anyway! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u53	Minister Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u54	Mr President! It is very good to go through this funding. If, first, to answer the cost of change, it has been established in this Chamber jointly that the cost of change of the ict systems must be done in any case. Let us do this reform or not, and we must harmonise the patient information systems, which requires it. And second: do voluntaryly or do this with a model of well-being areas, wage harmony must be done. Even in those areas where these voluntary regional entities have been made, wage harmonisation has become an additional cost. They can't be avoided. And then for these surgeries. When you look at that list, the need-based factors show that in all the regions of ageing Finland these will increase in euros. So there's no such big risk right now that we're gonna have to lay off.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u55	Congressman Wallinheimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u56	Mr President! In recent weeks, the Centre in particular has often assured us here in Question Time that the preparation of the regional tax is not on the table of the Minister of Finance. Well, I guess it came to you a little unsolicited and unexpectedly. You have also repeatedly reiterated from the centre that progress is being made in this matter. It has to be said that there has been a complete lack of patience in this wedge-eyed drive at tax level. Since taxation is now linked to extending the tasks of the provinces, I would ask the Prime Minister: what other tasks will the municipalities then be taking over in these welfare areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u57	Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u58	Mr President! In this respect too, the work is under way, i.e. whether there are any other tasks that could then be carried out by these regions. There are no decisions on this either, and they are not necessarily municipal tasks, which is not necessarily the case at all. This preparatory work on regional taxation is under way, and Minister Saarikko has also stated on several occasions in this Chamber that this is progressing just as has been agreed with the government parties. But, as has been said, a lot of details are open and open, and therefore, of course, decisions cannot be taken yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u59	Congressman Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u60	Mr President! I will return to that original question of the democratic nature of future welfare areas. I led two decades of two major hospital districts, and it was my custom to describe its democracy in the following way: if it is located north of Turku, in municipal elections, the party — the assembly, the centre, the social democrats, someone else — should win, its party should say in municipal elections that ‘if we win at the elections and get another two places in the Hospital District Council, then at the two annual meetings that this council has, we shall come to the next and follow’. This does not sound very direct to me to be a democracy and an immediate influence. I would now like to ask the relevant representative in the Government: will this opportunity for direct elections in the welfare area to increase, in comparison to the current situation, the ability of citizens to influence decision-making on special care?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u61	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u62	Mr President! It is quite clear that in this model of government democracy will be strengthened. It is quite clear that the direct election of individuals to decide on these important issues of welfare and social and health services in the region will strengthen democracy. That is what is at the heart of this, and that is why this is an important proposal from a democratic point of view, because it wants to strengthen the fact that people in that region will then be able to vote in this welfare area council for people who they trust and who will then be able to ensure that people in the region are also taken into account in decision-making. In other words, I see it as very important. And when this was a question for the Finns of Peru, why can't one of every municipality be guaranteed, it can't be guaranteed here in Parliament that there's one representative for every one of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u64	Thank you. — Mr Häkkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u65	Mr President! This model does not actually strengthen democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u68	Minister of Justice Henriksson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u69	Mr President! It is very interesting to hear Mr Häkkänen's ideas about this model, because there was a similar presentation on the table in the previous government in this regard, which would have been made of provinces where direct elections would have been exactly the same as in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u73	Congressman Honkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u74	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Häkkänen and also Mr Purra seemed to be forgetting the fact that, if there is no social welfare reform, the pressure on local government tax in the present municipalities is very high throughout the country, perhaps now excluding Helsinki. That is a fact that is something that is beautifully forgotten here. I would also like to welcome you to the health centres of small municipalities, which now sound so perfect on the basis of your speeches. [of the group of Finns: Almost none!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u75	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u76	Mr President! I think this was an excellent question: who is going to secure the operation of these small social and health centres in the future? Do we believe that with this organizer network this would be possible if it does not work today? We don't think so, but there's still a deep desire to move Finland back decades and say,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u83	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u84	Mr President! It must be said that in those services, the most likely thing is for the small municipalities to leave and transfer the health centres, to be concentrated there in connection with the province. Mr President! Citizens are very concerned about their services, and people with disabilities who need special skills and demanding services are particularly vulnerable. Up to now, the services of these citizens have been provided by joint municipal boards, which have been composed of up to tens of municipalities and have had sufficient expertise to organise the services also for highly challenging customers. Now, however, the government wants to break up these special care districts and chop up the staff in different welfare areas. At the same time, many fear that special skills will disappear and that the continuity of well-functioning services will be jeopardised. Dear government, what do you answer to the disabled and their loved ones? Will they continue to live, regardless of their municipality of residence, in the housing service unit in which they are:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u85	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u86	Mr President! I find the image that the representative paints about the possibility of choosing his own services, for example, when mentally disabled, to be devastating. In this respect, it is not even in line with the spirit of the current disability service, and the starting point must be to maintain these quality services. But here in this Parliament we have been discussing for several years whether, for example, a mentally disabled person could also choose a place closer to home than those in these rather large joint municipal authorities where they live, centralised. I think this is an absolutely essential question to go through in the welfare areas that will be 22: What is the most humane in the future? And I would not go counting, Mr Rantanen, on the fact that the image you have created is the only human solution. In that respect, it was good that Parliament had a wide-ranging consultation on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u87	Congressman Rantanen, Piritta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u88	Thank you, Mr President. There has been talk of these regional elections. First of all, I would like to thank all the candidates and voters who made a valuable contribution to the municipal elections this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u91	Secretary Henrikson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u92	Mr President! We have a common challenge here, and I hope that all the parties will start to think about how to get the voters even better off. Measures have already been taken at the Ministry of Justice as regards future regional elections in welfare areas. There will be investments in communication, it will be done in a cross-administrative way. Together, we must send out a message that there will be new elections and that it is also important to go to them to vote. That is why it is also extremely important for us to have a group of party secretaries from all the parliamentary parties, who will also be able to consider the questions that we can raise the public's enthusiasm for voting. We also have a place for every political party to look in the mirror here. We need to do more so that people can really see that the voice matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u93	Congressman Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u94	Mr President! According to the Ministry of the Interior, in the context of the rescue services reform, the funding gap in the current system has been identified, which is estimated to be EUR 80 million. In addition to this deficit, the service level deficiencies in the rescue services and the need to change the reserve system are creating upward pressure on costs. At the same time, however, information is leaking from the provinces that cuts are being made to the service level and to the station network in order to achieve savings, i.e. staff and fire stations are being reduced. Mr President! So I ask Minister Ohio: how will the government ensure the funding and resources of the rescue services in the welfare areas in order to guarantee adequate rescue services and thus the safety of citizens plus the police?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u95	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u96	Mr President! Thank you for the very important question. In this model, money is going to go to these welfare areas, which then decide to use it, so there is no earmarked money. This funding will be increased, as has been said several times in the Chamber yesterday. This is also the case with regard to the funding of the rescue services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u99	Thank you. — I give the first question to the author, Mr Juvonen, a question, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get back to that basic thing, getting a doctor. It is extremely important for Finns that people get to a doctor through Finland, wherever you live.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u103	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u104	Mr President! Up to now, the reform of social welfare and health care has thought that restructuring alone is sufficient. It'll get us there, but it won't get us to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u107	Let's go to the next question. — Mr Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u108	Mr President! In Finland, corona restrictions have been largely successful. Thank you especially to Finns, but also to the Government and the decision-makers of the regions. On one question, however, the government has stumbled badly. At first it took far too long to catch up and prevent the corona and its various variations from arriving in Finland. Now the government can’t open borders and travel safely. The airport area of Helsinki Airport used to represent 4% of Finland's GDP and employed tens of thousands of people, indirectly up to 100,000. In this year, Vantaa's unemployment has doubled from 7 to 8 per cent to 15, and the airport area is the biggest single factor. The airport area is therefore of great importance for the Finnish economy as a whole. Tourism is now gradually opening up in Europe, but in Finland the government seems to be going against the tide. Minister Ohio, the opening up of tourism is an important issue for the whole Finnish economy and employment. How do you intend to allow safe travel and to open borders?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u109	Secretary Ohio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u110	Mr President! Just today, at the Council of State session, we have jointly decided that commuting throughout the Schengen area will be liberalised very soon, and this will facilitate commuting, particularly for Sweden and Estonia. Many Estonian workers, for example, have been living in a very difficult situation, separated from their own family for a long time, and this has been a difficult, regrettable situation. Of course, I would like to remind you of the debate that has been held in this Chamber quite often, not as long ago as there has been a cry here about how borders are leaking.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u111	And now I ask those of you who want to ask supplementary questions to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u112	Mr President! Of course, health safety must be the starting point for travelling. Therefore, the pan-European approach is to carry out a health check or a certificate of interest rate vaccination in the country of origin. This will ensure that, when travelling by means of public transport, you travel in a healthy way. The Government's presentation in the consultation is to prevent the recovery of tourism and to create major practical problems at the borders. The performance can leave thousands of people in unemployment and nullify Finnair's and Helsinki Airport's plans for the position of the airport as Europe's leading gateway to Asia. Finland does not have the capacity to test all tourists or check certificates from them within its borders, especially if the testers or inspectors have to be health professionals. Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: after all, you have corrected the shortcomings of the opinion round in the government so that Parliament will soon be able to put Finland into European practice,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u113	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u114	Mr President! I share the view of the representative that people should be able to move and that this should be done in a health-proof way. Now it is a question of who defines its health safety. And this issue of Multala may become a reference to the possibility of assessing other aspects of health safety than health safety itself. And that is the challenge in this society, whether we follow health-security practices or what risks are taken. We have made changes to this border-HE, the government's proposal on the border, and tomorrow we are going to present this proposal in order to prepare for the big picture that has changed today, which means that in practice tourists will also be coming. Who's testing? It has been said whether it can only be done at border crossing points or whether it can be done by all the social workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u115	Thank you. — Mr Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u116	Mr President! Here, Minister Kiuru, you said, as some sort of news or as a surprise, that there is a real need to assess other factors than purely health safety, that is, the spread of corona. Of course. After all, we all know that the whole year has had to assess where the limit goes if we are to create more fates with the doubling of Vantaa's unemployment or with the tens of thousands of tourism, hundreds of thousands of unemployment, where there will be long-term exclusion and health problems, than with the corona. When the situation was bad and there were no vaccinations, Finland was the slowest model in Europe to build based on mandatory testing. Many others were successful. And now it seems that once the situation has improved and vaccinations are widespread and we have a European Corona Certificate in use on 1.7, Finland will be the slowest in Europe to adopt this commonly agreed method. I would like to ask the Prime Minister more specifically: are we really going to have differences in the use of the EU green corona passport, and if so, why on earth are we taking it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u117	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u118	Mr President! Let me repeat what I said just now, that is, today the joint decisions of the Government have enabled people from the Schengen area, which have received a full vaccination kit — somewhere else there is only one thorn, where two are needed — to move freely to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u119	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u120	Mr President! Unfortunately, the government's answers are not convincing. Tourism has been a very important growth sector for Finland in recent years. In Lapland, for example, direct tourism income alone has been EUR 1 billion in recent years, accounting for 70% of foreign customers. Since March 2020, international leisure travel has been at a complete standstill. Tourism normally employs around 10,000 person-years in the north. For people in Lapland, international tourism is absolutely vital, and there is nothing to replace it. It is therefore essential that leisure travel be opened up and that Finland adheres to the EU's common travel policy. It is possible to do this in a health-security manner, as proposed by the Assembly, and it must be done as soon as possible, so that employment and the economy can also recover. Prime Minister, does the government not see that people in the tourism industry are in need of their livelihood and the future of the sector? Decisions should have been made by now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u121	Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u122	Mr President! It's not like you don't open up a lot of travel. Last time today we have taken decisions, and yes, tourism is also being opened up as far as tourism is concerned. And, of course, the most important thing about this is the progress of vaccinations. As vaccinations progress in Finland, as vaccinations progress in Europe, as vaccinations progress in the world, so we can get back to more normal communication within societies as well as travel. So, yes, tourism is being opened up, and I believe that the next season will be much better because a larger proportion of the population has been vaccinated. And once you have received the entire series of vaccines, it is possible to travel freely.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u124	Congressman Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u125	Mr President! Apart from the fact that tourism is in trouble because of the corona, the restaurant and event sectors are also. Today I last looked at the Government's exit strategy, which describes the stage of spread and the phase of acceleration and the basic level, but I stayed to think now that I looked at it again that there is no point where there is no level at all. There are very different kinds of situations in Finland with these infections, and I find it a little unusual if we stick around here at some level of the corona. Where, then, is there a situation where there are no levels at all and our livelihoods can begin to recover?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u126	Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u127	Mr President! From the point of view of the management of this epidemic, it is absolutely essential at what stage the vaccination coverage is such that these levels can be abandoned. I also agree with the honourable Member's question as to whether that is the time ahead, and at least I think it is. When is it? Next, the hybrid strategy will be updated during the Midsummer Week and again after the update in August. It will then be possible to assess whether this is a completely new starting point for the whole work. At this stage, I dare not promise until these expert views have been presented by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and by the THL, how quickly it will be possible to achieve this, but from the point of view of vaccine coverage, the updating of the hybrid strategy and the elimination of levels will certainly be ahead of us if we succeed correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u128	Ledamot Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u129	Mr President, värderade talman! The EU is of great importance and value to Finland and to us in the RKP. Free movement and free trade have increasingly made Finland a part of Europe. During the period of interest, European countries have also acted on their own, but at the same time efforts have been made to strengthen cooperation during the crisis. Now, as a result of the pandemic, an EU corona vaccination certificate has been approved at EU level, which will also be introduced in Finland next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u130	Värderade Talman! Tack för en bra fråga. Of course, this corona passport does not belong to the Ministry of the Interior but to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but from my own property I can say what I have already said here that we are taking steps in the front before we receive this certificate, which means that the entry of vaccinated people is possible. Perhaps also a representative for the previous debate To put it another way, all people vaccinated in the Schengen area are allowed to travel, not just commuters, but everyone. In other words, the better the vaccination coverage in Europe, the better we can get here, for example, during the summer. The Government has worked to ensure that Finland can be opened up in a health-proof way, so that as much life can be opened as possible within Finland as soon as possible. At the borders, we must continue to ensure that there are health-security measures. At the same time, you are raising the very important point that the free movement of Schengen must continue to be guaranteed, and the European Commission has made a new proposal to that effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u131	Thank you. — Congressman Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u132	Mr President! Our airports and ports are indeed production plants for Finnish exports and the economy and tourism. Of course, for the past year and a half they've been walking around like a blanket slipper factory. I've been doing it every week. Yesterday I was contacted by a Finnish citizen who was coming back from Bangkok to Finland to work here. He had with him a negative test that was taken less than 72 hours before he took off. The test results were not good enough because they said that the regulations had changed at the end of last week. The instructions had changed that it should be 72 hours before he arrived in Finland, so his test was, in a way, a little premature. Tickets went back and had to spend the night at Bangkok Airport and so on. It's strange where this came from.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u133	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u134	Mr President! I cannot take a stand on this case with such a quick hearing. This may be due to the fact that THL has updated these guidelines on border formalities again. But this example, if I have just understood it, cannot be because of it. But when I heard it so quickly, let's look at it together what this could have been about. But the starting point is that of course we must react as soon as health security changes and also as passenger volumes change. And now, together, there is a way of promoting this mobility and ensuring that it can also be done in a health-safe way. And it is a and o for success in Finland that both of these go hand in hand. We must take into account the effects in all activities, but when we talk about health safety proposals, we must also consult the experts working on that front, and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u135	I give the floor to Mr Multala, the author of the original question. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u136	Mr President! It is good to hear that tomorrow we will receive a proposal from Parliament which I hope will make travel easier for us now. However, I would like to point out that we are already late in this, unfortunately. Opening up tourism is about our airlines being able to, for example, travel to Asia, to book places, as if in everyday language, so that they can then reopen and create the routes to which growth was to be directed in the future. Now, if only after the summer or at the end of the summer can we get to the point where this can be done, others have already reached us. Finland is the place where Europe should fly to Asia also for climate reasons, because the route is the shortest, and it is the starting point for Finland's economy and for all plans for Helsinki Airport from which we have now left. Mr President, perhaps the Prime Minister understands that this is a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u137	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u138	Mr President! Right up to Finavia or Finnair, my authority does not extend, but I will answer this question in general. I think it is important that we have the same rules in Finland, so that we know what we are trying to achieve here, and that is why this border law is being reformed again, so that, according to the latest rules of the game, we can also have our own health safety standards, and that is what this is all about. I myself have rushed this law here from the very point of view that these are in order, and we finally got it for the translations on Monday and therefore also for KUTHANEK, and I am pleased that we are now getting these translations ready on Friday and that this proposal has been submitted here. Parliament will then look at this whole and also see how health safety is ensured in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u139	I would like to thank the representatives for this debate. Very well kept to one - minute schedules, and the interludes were polite.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u140	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 18/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 June.021 The amendments are now being discussed. I would ask the ministers and everyone else who is not taking part in this debate to move out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u141	Mr President! I propose a amendment to Article 2 in line with the objection of the Finns of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u142	Mr President! I support Mr Vallin's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u143	Mr President! I propose a amendment to Section 5 in line with the objection of the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u144	Mr President! I support Mr Vallin's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u145	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 19/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Vestman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u146	Mr President! The debate on the level of electricity transmission prices has been going on for a long time and not without cause. As stated in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, prices for electricity distribution to households have risen clearly in the 2010s, both nominally and in real terms. On average, the transfer price paid by the Finnish consumer has risen by almost 50 per cent and, finally, electricity transmission prices are being addressed. After all, in January last year the government presented a draft law to curb electricity transmission prices. At the time, the show was a torso. The proposal did not interfere at all with the crucial issue of the electricity transmission price control model, which determines the level of transmission prices to be paid by consumers and the return on network companies. The draft law would therefore have provided a follow-up to the problem areas of this supervisory model. That is why last spring we drafted a legislative initiative as an alternative and to tighten up the government. We proposed amendments to the law, resulting in cuts in the profits of the power grid companies. We also proposed that the general principles on the content of the reasonableness and supervisory model should be enshrined in the law and that the cap on price increases should be tightened. Similar changes were made in the citizens' initiative submitted in the autumn. Following the legislative initiative of the Coalition Party, the Government amended its proposal to address the price control model. I would like to thank the government for this and also thank the Committee on Economic Affairs for the thorough handling of the government's proposal, our legislative initiatives and the citizens' initiative. Mr President! Unfortunately, the government's proposal and the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy which authorises it still do not address electricity transmission prices effectively enough. According to the expert judgements received by the committee, it would be justified to lay down by law the general principles of a reasonable pricing control model. The government's proposal does not directly address the supervisory model and the revenue generated by network companies at a section level. The Government’s proposal therefore presents a risk in terms of legal certainty. If the Energy Agency, which supervises the network companies, makes changes to the profit calculation model in the middle of the monitoring period and the electricity grid companies complain about these changes, the changes in the control model may not remain in court. The expert opinion received by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the fact that, within the framework of EU regulation on the electricity market, the way in which the legislative initiative and the citizens' initiative provide for general principles to be laid down by law on the content of a reasonable pricing control model would be possible. Sweden and Austria, among others, have come to a similar solution. The Committee's expert opinion has pointed out that the government's proposal has interpreted EU regulation on the electricity market in a risk-averse manner and that the Electricity Market Directive and the relevant EU case law allow the national legislator more room for manoeuvre than the government's proposal has put forward. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated in its opinion that the interpretation of a government proposal on the relationship between the independence of a regulatory authority and the requirement to legislate cannot necessarily be considered justified from the point of view of EU law. The adoption of a law laying down the general principle of reasonable pricing would also allow the Energy Agency to address elements of a reasonable pricing calculation model that cannot be addressed during the supervisory period following a government proposal. In addition to the changes raised in the Government’s proposal, the legal level of regulation proposed in the objection would also allow for addressing the high level of return on equity for network companies and the fixed capital structure. Expert judgements support these changes to the supervisory model in addition to any changes in the government proposal. The government has proposed a reduction in the ceiling for electricity distribution charges from 15% to 8%, and that has now been the position of the committee. However, I do not believe that there are any sound arguments put forward to the committee as to why this limit cannot be reduced to 5%, as we have proposed. Nor can the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs lead to a stricter ceiling being constitutionally impossible. Mr President! In the view of the government proposal and the majority of the committee, the most serious mistake is that the transitional provision gives electricity grid companies an additional possibility to increase the price by extending the deficit compensation period for the current monitoring period by four years. Combined with the regulation of the existing law, the possibility of an extension of the balancing period will be up to 12 years, allowing electricity grid companies to charge consumers a surplus of around EUR 1 billion. This extension of the balancing period cannot in any way be justified by the interests of consumers and Finnish companies, but undermines the benefits for consumers of any changes in the supervisory model. Organisations representing electricity users have criticised the extension of the compensatory period for underproductions. According to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the legislator also has a wide margin for manoeuvre in the regulation of natural monopolies as regards the pricing criteria, including the retroactive nature of the regulation. Why was this room for manoeuvre not intended to be used in the wider interest of Finnish consumers and businesses? Mr President! In order to curb the rise in electricity transmission prices, derogations from the weather security requirements should also be used. It should be possible for residents of sparsely populated areas to voluntarily deviate from the quality of weather security in exchange for compensation paid by network companies. About one in five of the dwellings in sparsely populated areas have been equipped with a storm response, such as an aggregate. In the weather security service presented in the objection, the consumer could sell his own preparation to the network company instead of making extensive investments, such as land cabling. The Government's proposal would also limit consumers and entrepreneurs' ability to generate electricity in the local energy community. The power limit of 2 megavolt amps is artificial and is not justified at all. According to the expert opinion received by the committee, the power limit will prevent the use of new innovations and, for example, limit the potential of farms for joint electricity generation. It is a real shame that the government parties did not have the courage to remove the power limit in committee. Mr President! I propose that the amendments to Article 2 of the objection be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u147	Thank you. — And Mr Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u148	Mr President! Unreasonably, excessive prices and price increases in electricity transmission have been a topic for Finns for a long time. I thank the government for bringing a proposal to Parliament in accordance with its programme, which will significantly curb electricity transmission prices and reduce them by the majority of Finns. This is also the way the good government programme is going with the cut-off of electricity transmission prices. Mr President! The impact of the Government's proposal on electricity transmission prices will be seen at a slightly different time depending on which distribution network company lives in the area. For some, the price may fall this year and for others, after more years. The change in the law also puts a brake on price increases. In the future, a one-off increase can only be half of what is currently available, and the company's maximum allowable return is calculated. The growth in electricity transmission prices will therefore be curbed and prices will rightly be reversed. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its report that the changes are intended to significantly reduce the level and ceiling of electricity transmission prices. At the same time, however, efforts are being made to ensure the renewal of networks in both urban and sparsely populated areas and the safeguarding of services in line with the requirements of society and customers. It is very good and important that account is taken of the fact that electricity is a basic need for both citizens and businesses and society as a whole. It is therefore extremely important to ensure not only price moderation but also security of electricity supply. Mr President! Both of these are well taken into account in the government's proposal. In addition to price control, we also want to ensure a high level of security of supply for electricity networks. The construction and strengthening of networks must be done more cost-effectively. Other methods should be used instead if they are more cost-effective. The change in the law affects prices in particular through two changes. Firstly, the annual increase in transmission charges will be reduced from the current 15% to 8%, and secondly, the allowed return of distribution system companies will be 4%, compared to almost 6% now. Mr President! The laws contained in the performance are intended to enter into force as soon as possible. It is important to monitor the impact of these future changes and to make new changes if necessary, which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also draws attention to. I thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its careful report and the government for this good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u149	Thank you. — And Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u150	President! The proposed regulation has been prepared for quite a long time and there is a broad social need for reforms. This is reflected by a number of relevant parliamentary initiatives. I myself will also be included in this group of initiatives. They and the citizens' initiative share exactly the same objective of curbing electricity transmission prices. Right now, the transfer companies are cashing in like the last day. It is unreasonable for our industry to have 14 times the electricity tax and 19 times the EU minimum level for households and services. Transfer prices in many places in Finland have even doubled over the last ten years. This is poison for small and middle-income households. President! According to the expert judgements received by the committee, the government's proposal for a stricter price cap should be laid down. The government has here proposed a reduction in the ceiling for electricity transmission and distribution charges from 15% to 8%. These changes are very insignificant for consumers on an annual basis. Work to curb electricity transmission prices is therefore heading in the right direction, but the current measures are simply not sufficient in view of the scale of the problem. The committee has not even been given reasons why this limit cannot be reduced by 8%. I myself have proposed a ceiling of 4%.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u151	Thank you. — And Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u152	Mr President! Right at the beginning of this speech, I would like to support Mr Vestman's motion for amendments to Rule 2 of protest. It would be highly justified that these should be the Parliament's decision in relation to this legislative amendment. Mr President! As a general rule, I think it is very important that electricity transmission prices and, above all, the continued increase in electricity prices should be curbed by this legislation. Energy is, by definition, the ability to work, and in that sense, of course, energy is an absolutely essential resource for all members of society, to which access must, of course, be secured in such a way that it is secure but also affordable enough. Yes, Finnish households have been subjected to excessive strain in recent years with their growing electricity bills. In this sense, of course, the government is moving in the right direction with its proposal, but in an inadequate way, and it would therefore be highly justified for Parliament to implement this legislative reform, which will safeguard the purchasing power of Finnish households, through the amendments to section 2 of the objection raised by Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u153	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u154	Mr President! This is a very important reform and improvement which will curb electricity transmission prices, and it is really great that the reform has now been brought forward. It is perhaps good to return to the fact that, indeed, the regulation of natural monopolies must be extremely precise, and even though this situation was reached in the past, during the reign of Katainen, it is of course worth remembering that this type of error would no longer be made. It is indeed a good thing that, during this reign, these things can then be fixed together. Of course, each company operates in accordance with the law on limited liability companies and takes out of the market the proceeds that are available and which are possible under the legislation, especially in such a monopoly situation, and then the consumer is protected by the legislation. Indeed, it is of the utmost importance that this should always be remembered as a matter of priority for consumers. In addition to the adoption of this bill, three statements were made indicating this further work. The first concerns the continuation of this preparation, which examines the regulation of the basis for calculating a reasonable return within the limits of EU legislation on the electricity market and future EU Court of Justice case law. In addition, a study will be carried out on the needs of energy communities as a separate analysis and impact assessment. There has also been a community of researchers, professors who have considered different ways of transferring electricity, and we have heard a lot of views, a little different views have been expressed by researchers, and I do think it is important that these views are also heard very widely in this further work, and I understand that this is what is meant to be done. Thank you to the Ministry for this very important piece of legislation which will now be adopted during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u155	Thank you. — Mr Kalli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u156	Mr President! Indeed, this reform has been prepared for a long time and, as the honourable Members have already said, it has also been long and wide awaited. In other words, the need for this reform has been widely felt in this society, not only by this proposed regulation but also by a number of relevant parliamentary initiatives and the relevant citizens' initiative. I would also like to thank Minister Lintilä and the ministries for the proposal and the colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs for their careful handling of the matter and for the carefully weighed report. It is now important that we adopt and implement the reforms quickly. The impact of the reform has been estimated to be large. The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy describes these changes, their causes and consequences in a comprehensive way, but I would like to draw attention to the three main measures that are now being taken to reduce electricity transmission prices. Firstly, they are a cost-effectiveness requirement for the development of networks, secondly, a reduction in the annual cap on transmission charges from the current 15% to 8%, and thirdly, a further reduction in the permitted return of distribution system companies to 4%, compared to almost 6% at present. After these measures, distribution networks will be able to raise EUR 350 million less from their customers in 2022, i.e. from next year onwards, than last year. This will undoubtedly have an impact on distribution system companies, it cannot be denied, of course, but, above all, on their customers, both households and businesses, which will ultimately be reflected in the electricity bill in the desired way, while at the same time improving not only the purchasing power of households but also the cost competitiveness of companies. Mr President! I strongly support this report and thank the committee for its good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u157	Thank you. - Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u158	Mr President! They're finally setting up a system to control the charges for the power transmission. I consider this proposal to be significant and I am delighted that it is in the Chamber today. Thank you to the government for promoting this complex whole. Minister Lintilä has prepared this amendment to the Electricity Market Act, which will allow network companies to generate 350 million less revenue in 2022, i.e. next year compared to 2020. The performance is used to control as quickly as possible. Although the change will take some time, I believe that transfer prices will decrease in the whole of Finland. The timetable depends on which distribution network company lives in its territory. With the decisions of Prime Minister Katainen's Government, the spiral of rising electricity bill prices began in 2012. The aim at that time was to increase security of supply, but the monopolistic power grid companies have collected over-profits from their customers by increasing transmission prices. This is reflected in the purse of all of us, and I am certainly not the only Member of Parliament who receives substantial feedback on this. A weather-proof electricity network is a question of security of supply, which we all sign, but prices must also be reasonable so that they can be paid by the ordinary people concerned. The Government's proposal addresses transfer prices, in particular, by four means, whereby the Energy Agency will apply the allowed rate of return for distribution system companies to 4% from the beginning of next year, which is lower than ever before. In the future, distribution network companies will be able to raise EUR 350 million less from their customers than last year. The criticisms of the Coalition Party in relation to the provision of these articles run into EU legislation, at least according to the information I have, and that is why the Government's proposal is going to implement the cut in electricity transmission prices on a solid basis and will take it forward during this government term. There's got to be a lot of attention here. The annual increase in transmission charges will be halved and users and energy communities should be entitled to build separate lines across the property line to increase small production without separate permission from the distribution system operator. This also contributes to reducing these prices. The most important thing is that the construction and strengthening of networks must be done cost-effectively in the future. Overinvestment, for example in unnecessary land cabling, will no longer be allowed, and I believe that this will cut prices in a good way. These are the means by which the Energy Agency will print the allowed rate of return of distribution system companies to this 4% right from the beginning of next year, and this is lower than ever before. I believe that this reform is a clear improvement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u159	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u160	Mr President! A legislative amendment under the leadership of Minister Lintilä aims to curb the rise in electricity distribution prices through measures to reduce the cost level of distribution system operators and to reduce the rise in costs. Electricity transmission prices will finally fall, and this is an important issue for many Finns. So the change in the law is also putting a brake on price increases. In the future, a one-off increase can only be half of what is currently available, and the company's maximum allowable return is calculated. The growth in electricity transmission prices will be curbed and prices will finally decline — thank you. I see it as important that the annual increase in transmission prices should be reduced. Under this law, it is almost halved. Distribution network companies may have made big profits because this is a risk-free business. It is therefore reasonable that the allowed profit should also be significantly reduced from 6% to 4%. The companies have also been under pressure to raise prices due to investments. It is important to extend the period for investments to prevent storm damage. This bill will now bring prices under control, but the security of electricity supply will be maintained at the same time. Mr President! We in Kainuu welcome this change of law with joy. Indeed, in our region we are paying very high transfer prices, the country's highest basic fees, and now it has hit the purses of many people, especially those with little means, excessively hard. So now I thank you, Minister. Lintila and I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for a good report, and I welcome this draft law. So these laws come into force as soon as possible. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u161	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 16/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. President Kymäläinen will present the matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u162	Mr President! The proposal implements nationally the amendments to the Directive on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles by laying down minimum requirements for new public procurement of vehicles and transport services above EU limit values. The Committee endorses the proposal's objectives of promoting the propulsion of the fleet through public sector procurement and contributes to speeding up the transition towards low-emission and carbon-neutral transport. Public procurement plays an important role in promoting climate and environmental policy objectives. In its report, the committee welcomes the fact that the proposal takes full account of the flexibility and national derogations provided for by the directive. The Committee also considers it justified that the proposal has sought to take account of regional specificities in the setting of requirements, such as access to charging infrastructure, the financial position of municipalities, access to taxi services and regional differences in transport distances. The expert consultation has expressed views that the achievement of the objectives of the proposal is, however, accompanied, inter alia, by uncertainties related to the development of the charging infrastructure needed for access to vehicles and, in part, to the costs of the proposal. The committee believes that this underlines the importance of the mid-term review proposed by the proposal by the end of 2024. The Committee attaches great importance to monitoring and assessing the impact of the proposal, inter alia, from the point of view of the impact of regulation on the ability of different companies to participate equally in public tenders and the impact of these requirements, particularly in the case of sparsely populated areas. The committee proposes a statement for the Parliament’s approval that ‘the Council of State shall monitor the effects of the regulation on the platform,in particular in the light of the impact on the less populated regions Mr President! The Committee believes that the use of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in public procurement necessarily requires an adequate charging and distribution infrastructure. In Finland, however, there are clear shortcomings in this infrastructure in many areas. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the Committee on Transport and Communications must ensure that the separation of municipal functions as proposed by the Government is implemented in accordance with the principle of funding. According to the impact estimates of the proposal, the requirements set out in the draft law do not lead to an increase in the costs of statutory transport by differentiation of minimum municipal shares. The basic point of the proposal is that if the costs would, however, be higher than the impact assessments of the proposal, these costs should be reimbursed afterwards to the municipalities. The proposal seeks to reduce the challenges of long distances, the availability of taxi services and, inter alia, local deficiencies in charging infrastructure. The potential increase in the cost of rolling stock will be compensated for by the estimated decrease in propulsion and operating costs. The Committee considers it necessary for the Government to ensure that, in accordance with the principle of financing, compensation for any additional costs is realised in practice and that the development of adequate charging and distribution infrastructure is also ensured by means of financing. The committee proposes that Parliament adopt a statement stating that ‘the Council of State shall ensure that the mid-term evaluation of the implementation of the principle of the financing of the municipalities, as referred to in the proposal,is carried out in practice and that adequate support is provided, together with other necessary measures, that the use of clean and energy efficient vehicles for the purposes of the proposal is also possible in areas where charging and distribution infrastructure does not arise on market terms’. Mr President! The committee has made a number of amendments, mainly of a technical nature, and the committee's report contains an objection to the rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u163	Thank you. — And Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u164	Mr President! In the future, public procurement will require a minimum number of clean vehicles. The law implements the requirements of the EU Clean Vehicle Procurement Directive and is one of the measures of the fossil-free road map. Finland is committed to at least halving transport emissions by 2030. This objective will not be achieved without determined efforts by the public sector towards carbon neutrality, including in the transport sector. The public sector must lead the way in a fair transition towards fossil-free transport, as wide shoulders are needed in the midst of change. The public sector affects the transport market by purchasing public transport services and other public transport services. By adding environmental and energy efficiency requirements to these procurements, the public sector can contribute to the development of clean equipment and the infrastructure it needs, i.e. charging stations and distribution points. The minimum percentages of green procurement have been broken down by distance and region's economic capacity. The Committee on Transport and Communications also pays particular attention to this regional justice in its report. The requirements apply only to new procurement and service contracts, i.e. not all equipment needs to be renewed at once. The regulation therefore applies only to new purchases made in the normal cycle, and this does not mean that the existing equipment will be phased out prematurely. This is also environmentally sound. Mr President! It is estimated that the overall implementation of the Directive will not pose major challenges for operators in the sector, as the objectives of public transport authorities, among others, are clearly more stringent than the requirements of the Directive. Although procurement skills have developed, guidance and guidance are still needed. Knowledge is at the centre of the bill so that the excellent objectives of the bill can be achieved while supporting the vitality of the regions. For example, the electrification of urban bus and logistics transport reduces not only emissions but also noise and local particulate emissions. We must not forget this aspect when assessing the overall benefits of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u165	Thank you. — And Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u166	Mr President! Indeed, a rather interesting bill at hand. I have not been able to get a good look at this in committee, nor have I been able to hear these expert consultations, but it does seem to me that with the general study of what we can do as a representative of the government's proposal and report, it is now, as it were, that this fight against emissions is going to be a bit over-exploited and that the allocation of resources to various emission reduction targets is now well balanced. I understand very well that in the big cities — especially in the capital region, where there are actually big cities and there are significant public transport in Finland — there are many reasons why Mr Soinikoski has pointed out that large diesel buses are replaced by electric buses. It will certainly improve air quality locally and in Finland even reduce emissions, and noise pollution is much lower and so on. But the fact that we go to the end of the last gravel road for school rides to move to electric vehicles is certainly oversized and over-regulated. I am very critical of whether it makes sense for Finland to be in the forefront of these technological solutions, for which we do not know what will be globally winning technologies. Mr President, it is obvious, for example, that the global fleet of cars cannot succeed with this current technology solution. We know that, for example, cobalt should be mined so much that, at the current rate of cobalt extraction, it would take more than 800 years. Well, everyone understands that it is of course a complete inequality to leave the world's fleet of cars to de-emission with this current technology, and that is why, of course, the fact that Finland is very intensively in the front line is making huge social investments in technologies, which may be completely out of date in a moment, because of the marginal reductions in emissions, seems to me to be a very critical point of view. In principle, Mr President, I would like to say that I believe that, of course, all forms of pollution must always be reduced. It is worth reducing emissions where it can be done in a sensible, appropriate way, but I would see that, in this legislation, when resources are allocated in another way, these reductions could be much more effective. But, Mr President,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u167	Congressman Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u168	Mr President! Indeed, this law seeks to promote emission reductions in transport by increasing the share of zero and low-emission vehicles in public procurement. And with regard to the speech by the previous speaker, Mr Auto, I have to say that in the Committee on Transport and Communications the representatives of the delegation also supported this government proposal and are behind it. In my opinion, it is a very good thing that this government proposal has taken into account the flexibility and the national derogations provided for by the EU directive that will be put into effect in full, that is a good thing. The committee also believes that it is justified that the proposal seeks to take account of specific regional features in the setting of requirements, such as access to the infrastructure for charging, the financial status of municipalities and the availability of taxi services, as well as regional differences in transport distances — precisely what Mr Autto has just said in his own speech. In my opinion, it is very good that the committee took these two statements. It is precisely the mid-term review which Mr Kymäläinen, the chairman of the committee, said in his own speech. The committee believes that the use of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in public procurement necessarily requires adequate charging and distribution infrastructure. The committee also noted that there are, however, clear shortcomings in many areas in Finland with regard to this infrastructure and that it should also be improved. Similarly, in my opinion, the Committee on Transport and Communications also took the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it is important in this proposal to identify the principle of reimbursement of the costs of additional municipal obligations, which requires the full reimbursement of the additional costs incurred by municipalities and by the enlargement of obligations. And that too was the committee's view that it was necessary for the Government to take care of this matter. Mr President! As far as I am concerned, this report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on this difficult issue is sufficiently critical, and the government's proposal must also be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u169	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u170	Mr President! Thank you to the committee for a good report. I have to comment on this speech by Mr Automotive. You said that this fight against emissions would be too ambitious. Well, this report, as pointed out in the previous speech, was adopted by the Coalition Party, but it seems that the Finns of Peru had objected. Now it must be remembered that we, the Finns-based Party, but also the Coalition Party, were adopting the targets for reducing transport emissions by 2030 during the last parliamentary term, as early as 2016 in the Government of Sipilä's energy and climate strategy. Now, Mr Autto, we are moving towards these objectives — we are moving towards them. You brought out the electric cars and illustrated them to the end of the sands in the countryside. I do not know whether you deliberately left out biogas cars and biogas-powered vehicles, which will also be promoted in the future. Mr President, these too must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u171	Thank you. — Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u172	Mr President! A few comments and comments on this debate. Representative Kettunen made a good point during this last period of the commitment made by all parties to halve transport emissions by 2030. And this proposal not only responds to this directive, which will be put into practice by the EU in August, for these clean and energy-efficient vehicles, but also forms part of the measures taken by the fossil road map and, in that respect, is strongly responding to this. In fact, the Finns of Peru submitted a motion of rejection to this effect in the committee. Well, why have we gone to separate these areas? Mr Autto, you have asked justifiable questions, and these are the same questions that we also went through in committee, in accordance with the principle of a large amount of gutting. Indeed, this differentiation of 20 % for Lapland — this 20 % requirement for these public procurement entities in one contract — does not only apply to a single undertaking or to all undertakings, but it has been taken into account on a regional basis that this leaves a great deal of flexibility in Lapland to acquire these vehicles, which have been there at the moment. These contracting entities are aware of this EU Directive and its entry into force, and these public contracts have been anticipated by contracting entities. For example, purchases were made in Joensuu, where it had been shown that those costs were not higher, even though there were fears about it in the first place. It must also be noted that this presentation is very strongly this kind of goal mode creative presentation, i.e. this presentation does not include sanctions. Here too, there is the possibility of flexibility if none of this can be achieved. And what is important, especially in sparsely populated areas or where there is little charging network — even though Lapland as an example of some regions — is the transition to 2025,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u173	Congressman Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u174	Mr President! I appreciate this good debate that I have had with my colleagues here, and I also appreciate the familiarity that the members of the committee have with this very draft law, of course, in their important role. On such a general level, I would just like to say to Mrs Torniainen that I certainly did not mean that I would strongly oppose this legislation, but always, in all these different regulatory projects, I would like to emphasise that, firstly, when we only have this one planet with one atmosphere, then the emission reduction measures should always be implemented in a way that is most effective in terms of reducing global emissions. At that time, the measure which necessarily has a very marginal but high limit-cost emission reduction, for example, is not necessarily the most sensible way forward in Finland. Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in many places in the world, and certainly in many places in Europe, the emission factor for electricity production is so high that driving an electric car increases emissions compared to driving an internal combustion engine. In Finland or Norway, in the Nordic countries, where electricity is produced without emissions, an electric car produces less emissions during its life cycle, but in a country where electricity is produced with carbon power, it is obvious that driving an electric car always produces more emissions than driving an internal combustion engine. In this sense too, these technology solutions will certainly be the subject of a rather critical review in the future. In that sense, even when Finland is rightly talking about reducing transport emissions — as the representatives of the government parties and Torniainen and Kymäläinen, who lead the committee, pointed out — which can be done as a measure that in Finland the fleet of cars usually recurs, even if it takes place in new internal combustion engines, it is likely to be much more effective in terms of reducing emissions than the very categorical shift to electric cars in situations where only marginally there is the possibility of emission reductions. If we take examples of living life now: If, after four or five years, an electric hybrid comes to the exchange and there is a charge cable still in its original sealed bag, then the hybrid has not reduced any traffic emissions, even if it is an electric hybrid, if it is driven like an internal combustion engine. In that sense, all these measures must always be looked at with a certain degree of criticalness.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u175	Thank you. Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u176	Mr President! I too thank you for a good debate. President! It is good and encouraging that, also through public procurement, low-emission new cars will enter the country, i.e. on the market, while, of course, the number of low-emission cars will increase. But when I have studied and watched a little, important comments have also been made in the opinion, and the effects of regulation, especially in the sparsely populated rural areas, from which Mr Auto also comes, will be taken into account and the needs of businesses in the regions will be taken into account. It is also important to take into account the distribution infrastructure and the consideration of the charging network in areas where it does not arise on market terms. And we must monitor the development of world market prices for low-emission vehicles. The development work now seems to be strongly in the direction of electric cars and towards what Mr Autto has pointed out. But I would also like to emphasise that biogas and other bio- and synthetic fuels are part of future solutions, and they must also be developed, Mr President. This is also a big, big opportunity for Finnish technology and technology companies. We must remember that there will also be cars using biogas and other biofuels in the future, not just electric cars. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u177	Mr Kymäläinen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u178	Thank you, Mr President! In short, this proposal really concerns all alternative propulsion, so that this is not just identified for electric vehicles. And, indeed, these forms of aid have already been taken into account in the road map for fossil transport, such as the charging infrastructure for electric cars and the infrastructure for the distribution of gas cars. Indeed, support measures have been presented in this fossil - free road map.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u179	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 15/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u180	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for this unanimous report. The proposal proposes to amend the law on transport services in order to facilitate the management and management of freight transport at road border posts between Finland and Russia. For cross-border vehicles, data may be collected using automatic identification. The law is meant to come into force on 1 January. July 2021. In the expert consultation, the proposal has been widely welcomed and the experiment has worked well. The Committee welcomes the fact that the experimental system is to be consolidated and considers that the extension of the system to other border posts should also be considered. It has been hoped in the expert consultation that the system will remain free in the future. The Committee's attention has been drawn to the fact that, in addition to the border crossing point, the possibility of automatic identification added to the draft law must be further assessed in the parking area from the point of view of the purpose of the data and the principle of minimisation. The committee therefore considers it necessary that the parking lot be clearly informed about automatic identification and data collection. In this case, information should be provided as to whether the identification concerns the whole or only part of the parking lot. Since this is an international border crossing point, it must be communicated not only in the official languages of the border states, but also in English at least. Mr President! The Committee welcomes the fact that automatic identification can help to improve the management of the queue system and influence the experimental abuses raised in the expert consultation. It has been suggested in the expert consultation that, in addition to the deletion of personal data, the law should provide for the anonymisation of personal data in order to make use of the data in traffic control and management tasks, in the development of operations and, where appropriate, also in the use of archiving, statistics and/or research. The committee notes that, with the entry into force of the EU General Data Protection Regulation, only necessary national legislation is possible. Once anonymised, personal data will no longer be personal data and will therefore no longer be covered by the EU General Data Protection Regulation. The committee stresses that if the information is to be used for the above purposes, pseudonymisation alone is not enough, but needs to be anonymised. The Committee believes that it is important to monitor the functioning of the system in the future, to develop it and possibly to introduce it at other border posts as well as to combat possible abuses. The committee draws the attention of the Director General of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to the planning of legislative drafting and considers it necessary for the Ministry to take measures to improve the drafting of legislation. Mr President! The committee has introduced legislative technical changes to the wording of the articles. The report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u181	Thank you. — And Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u182	Mr President! The proposed legislative amendment would add a new section on the control and management of freight transport at road border posts between Finland and Russia. The ultimate purpose of the legislative amendment is to streamline the freight traffic between Finland and Russia at the external border of the European Union, thereby speeding up exports and improving the competitiveness of companies. As a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I would like to draw a few key comments from the committee's report: Experiments in traffic control and management services have worked well and the committee considers that the system set out in the Government's proposal is appropriate to standardise. The committee's attention has also been paid to abuses which should be taken seriously. The committee has considered it important that, in future, the functioning of the system should be closely monitored and that consideration should also be given to its introduction at other border posts. With regard to the drafting of legislation, the committee draws serious attention to the fact that the Ministry of Transport and Communications does not, as a rule, provide sufficient time for the consultation. This was reflected in the report to the committee. It is therefore important that the Ministry takes the necessary measures to improve the drafting of legislation. Mr President! Although this government proposal is of a rather technical nature, it is a very welcome and significant improvement towards a smoother border traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u183	Thank you. — Representative Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u184	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mr Kymäläinen, presented this proposal very well. And when you look at that committee report and also at the government's proposal, even though they are of a very technical and short nature, this is a very significant change in the law we have, the permanent establishment of the law for the experiment that has been at that Vaalimaa border crossing point. That experiment at the border crossing has proved its worth. The border crossing of lorries has been very well placed during the experiment, and it is good that this practice is now being consolidated. The committee's consultation, which was carried out very quickly, also highlighted the need to monitor the functioning of this system and to take the opportunity to extend it to all border crossing points between Finland and Russia. It must be remembered that this experiment has now been at the Vaalimaa border crossing point, that there is also a very busy border traffic at the Nuijamaa border crossing point. Trucks cross the border there, in fact, the border crossing point of Nuyjamaa is more busy... [The SunaKymäläisen micphone opens, when the speaker's micphone closes ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u187	Thank you. — Mr Kymäläinen, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-17-ps-78.u188	Mr President! I apologise to Vice-President Torniainen for the fact that I was really inadvertently pushing the microphone between the microphone and the microphone. I have had no need or purpose whatsoever to limit, at any point, the Vice-President's speeches. On the contrary, I have been very happy to listen to them. But really the reason why I have reserved the floor is that which this motion is intended to achieve. Indeed, before 2014, there were truck queues of up to ten kilometres in the vicinity of both the Vaalimaa border crossing point and the Nuijamaa border crossing point, which caused very serious damage to traffic safety and smooth traffic in particular. The need to streamline this traffic was met by, among other things, this pre-booking service and has proved to be an effective system. It has smoothed down heavy traffic volumes, reduced queues, made traffic smoother and increased road safety. And indeed, at the time, before the introduction of this system of pre-booking, there was no such control in line as this has now helped. This presentation will help the planning and predictability of the transport of companies and will also enable better planning of the working and rest periods of drivers.
