ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would therefore ask the ministers present to take their place in the ministerial box. I would also ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. In order to include as many people as possible in this Question Time, it is desirable that the question should cover only one question at a time, which is addressed to only one minister. As far as the intermediate calls are concerned, I would like to point out that they do not interfere with the actual debate. Now it looks like we can get started.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u2	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u3	Mr President! In the next few days, the Parliament will vote on the second active model of the Marin government. A closer examination shows that it was also opposed by the SAK during the last term of government. Active model two of Sipilä's government with a new name and minimal changes. The main content of the model is that the unemployed person must apply for a certain amount and certain identified jobs as a condition for the continuation of unemployment benefit. In the event of a failure to find a job, sanctions may be more severe and tougher than the active model one than the western neighbour in Sweden. We Finns believe that a hard-to-work unemployed person is primarily in need of individual support, for which the government is not currently providing sufficient resources. The model does not improve the position of the unemployed, but simply increases the bureaucracy of job seekers and the system. Good government, are you going to correct the motion?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u4	Like this. — And Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u5	Mr President! The representative is now forcing us to go back a little bit to the active model of the previous government. That active model was unfair because the unemployment security of the unemployed person was cut if he was unable to find employment himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u8	That is the way, and now I am asking those representatives who want to ask supplementary questions on this subject, to press the V button and stand up. — Mr Lehto continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u9	Mr President! The newly appointed active model number two of the Board of Directors forces the employment authorities in a formula to interview jobseekers, even if the meetings should be tailored to the needs of the customer. A formal and submissive procedure leads to job seekers not to be treated as individuals but only to be subject to supervision. For those who would be employed quickly anyway, monitoring does not bring relief to job search but increases bureaucracy. Those who need more support will not receive the support they need, because the time spent by the authorities is spent on stalking and questioning. In our opinion, the focus should be on the development of skills and the permanence of employment. Good government, which is more important to you: support for job seekers or their supervision? If you support why you will bring to Parliament an active model of second, whose focus is on job application production
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u10	And Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u11	Mr President! This Nordic model is based on the fact that it specifically tailors support individually, but it also has this binding element, that is to say to turn it around in such a way that the unemployed are seeking jobs for which they are expected to be much better employed. In other words, we remove the idea that the TE Office alone shows these places to which he should apply. There were a lot of problems here that the Employment and Economic Development Office does not always know what this skills of an unemployed job seeker is like to find employment. So the purpose of this model is precisely to support the unemployed. I regret that you have so backwardly understood the fact that on the fifth day the unemployed person will be contacted and an initial assessment will be carried out. Two weeks later, there will be another debate on how he has experienced this unemployment and what he could apply for and on how to find his way to the services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u12	Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u13	Mr President! Take an example: The fresh matriculation examination has not received a summer job and his postgraduate study place has not yet been confirmed. He has to register as an unemployed job seeker. However, his primary goal is not to work full-time but to get to study. This job search model does not recognise such a situation, but forces students who have applied for further studies to interview each other every two weeks and to apply for four jobs a month until the place of study is confirmed. Increasing activity and working is certainly a worthy cause. However, we cannot help but wonder whether the right parties are now being activated. The model became so complex, formal and well-regulated that no application, which is the idea of municipal experiments, is possible. How did this happen, Mr President-in-Office? Wasn't it supposed to make it easier for employees and employers to meet?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u14	And Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u16	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u17	Mr President! The government's active model number two calls for 1200 officials to be employed in employment offices. In the opinion of many citizens, this is a grand scheme in which the government believes that, by increasing the number of officials in employment offices, employment is starting to rise. Has the government even thought about how it intends to increase tax revenue-generating jobs in the private sector? Tuula Haatainen, Prime Minister of Vice-President of the two active models, I now ask in a clear Finnish language: Does the active model employ non-officials in the second? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u18	And Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u19	Mr President! Yes, this has been assessed by the Ministry of Finance for a significant impact on employment. They move in more than 1200: it is closer to 10,000, which is expected to have an impact on employment. The Government will base this decision on specifically researched information. So we have Nordic research material, international research material, that it is by investing in this initial phase... When the unemployed person immediately becomes unemployed, he will be contacted, his situation will be mapped, discussed with him, and then he himself will start looking for these jobs, and every two weeks for three months he will have the opportunity to receive support for this employment process. At the moment, the message, for example, about the municipal experiment, when this mass unemployment has been, has been that the criticism of these unemployed people is that no one is contacting us. No one calls, no one asks. This is what we want to change, and it also has:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u20	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u21	Mr President! At the moment, perhaps the biggest challenge facing the Finnish economy is the shortage of labour: 43 per cent of employers say that there is not enough labour available. In this situation, new means must be used. The Coalition Party is a working party, and yesterday, in an alternative budget debate, it seemed that we were the only working party. But to come back to this question: it is true that this model is formal and has certain challenges, but it is also very important that people also look for new jobs in different sectors than they have been unemployed from so that jobs can be filled as quickly as possible. But this alone is not enough. We have to do more than that. We would like to invest more, EUR 20 million more, in the implementation of this model, but we also want to do more. Are you prepared to increase the protective part of the enforcement?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u22	Secretary Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u23	Mr President! The Government has also commissioned a report on how to improve the situation of the enforcement debtor, and that report has also been in the consultation process. We are now going through the way forward here. The mere increase in the percentage of protection for enforcement may lead to those who benefit from it being those with higher incomes and not necessarily those who need it the most. It is estimated that the impact on employment is very small. At the moment, we are going to have discussions in the future on the way forward in this area. There is going to be a change, but what kind of change in the exact way is still open and will return to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u24	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u25	Mr President! The model presented by the government is ineffective. It increases bureaucracy, but it is not useful for either the job seeker or the employer. It will increase people specifically in TE services, but otherwise it will not increase the incentive for work, it will not increase jobs or, above all, make this situation easier for us. The biggest problem in the labour market at the moment is confrontation, and unfortunately work in this country is not always worth it, even though it is always advertised in solemn speeches. I would like to ask the Honourable Government: are you prepared to increase the hand-held income of Finnish people in accordance with the models presented by the Finns and thus encourage people to work also at lower pay levels?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u26	And Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u27	Mr President! An important discussion on employment and work, especially at a time when there is a labour shortage in Finland across the country. Both in the public sector, for example among carers, and many companies would be in dire need of workers. Therefore, all incentives are needed to receive work and also to face up to workers and jobs. For the year 23, the Government has been considering the possibilities of reducing the tax burden on earned income. No decisions have been taken on this, and I would like to point out that, as an employment measure, as an incentive to receive work, this has been estimated to be rather ineffective in many studies. On the other hand, support for growth policy in keeping the economy rolling, even when growth seems to be waning, would certainly have an impact. I would therefore like to say this: we do not rule out the idea that we should agree with that view, and I am quite sure that, yes, work must be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u28	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u29	Mr President! As we all know, there is a labour shortage in the labour market at present, but there is also a major problem of matching. We also have a lot of incentive traps in social security that often prevent the unemployed from receiving part-time work. At the moment, because of that interest rate, we have been in force in unemployment security for this kind of protection element increase to EUR 500, but the government has not made any proposal to extend it. Instead, the Christian Democrats have tabled a motion. In our alternative budget, we would like that protective part of unemployment benefit to continue and thus more and more unemployed people to enter the labour market, get a foot in the labour market and thus improve their own employment opportunities. Mr Government, are you going to make a proposal that this element of protection of unemployment benefit should continue next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u30	Like this. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u31	Mr President! I think it is very important that when you face the unemployed on time, you can also see, for example, the shortcomings in your ability to work or know-how, and that you can direct people to the right services, to support, to education, perhaps, and to identify the needs that you have, and thus also to prevent long-term unemployment. Mr President! The coordination of social security and wages, and hence the dismantling of incentives traps, is the aim of this government, and has been the objective of many previous governments and has progressed over the years. For example, the linear model of disability pension, which is due to be presented to Parliament next year, will continue to be advanced during this term of government. But, Mr President, with regard to this increase in the protection component, there is no budget for it for next year's budget. It is a way to pay, but of course we must assess the experience of this increase in the protective part and consider what might be done about it in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u32	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u33	Mr. Speaker! This active model number two is bureaucracy, and it is a waste of time for the unemployed. — As a member of the opposition, Sanna Marin, you announced before the last parliamentary elections that you were ready to withdraw the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u34	And Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u35	Mr President! Congressman Tavio, we've decoded the active model. That decision has been made. Just as the Social Democrats promised, the active model was dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u36	Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u37	Mr President! Last season, the Finns of Peru took through an unjust active model that this government really did first.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u38	Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u40	Now, Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u41	Mr President! At the very beginning, it must be said to the Finns and even to the assembly that the Nordic labour service model is not an active model number two. [Right : Yes! ] There is absolutely no point in sending a message from this Chamber that this is one of the active models of the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u42	Well, there's the question. — — — — Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u43	Mr President! Yes Taimela is quite right that support should now be given to the unemployed. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u44	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u45	Mr President! According to objective expert estimates of the Ministry of Finance and the Parliamentary Information Service, the alternative budget for the Coalition Party would increase the number of employees in Finland by more than 100,000. At the same time, however, we are making fair improvements to the unemployment benefit system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u46	Like this. — Here you go, Minister Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u47	Mr President! Firstly, I call on all workers to join the cash register and, if unemployment occurs, to be covered by earnings-related unemployment benefit under the current system. [Right : No! ] Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, we will examine the question of whether there will be an extension of the fund or earnings-related unemployment benefit for all employees and, once this study has been carried out, conclusions can be drawn. It is not a simple matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u48	Now, on this subject, Mr Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u49	Mr President! First of all, I would like to respond to the alarmed left: the Finns of Peru also opposed the active model one, and last season we voted against the active model one. [ Hustles from the left] Mr President! Jari Lindström, then Minister for Labour of the Sipilä Government, stated: ‘The Marine Government has copied the plans of the active model two government. It would be fair that this should also be recognised. The Nordic job search model is an active model two presented by the previous government from almost word to word. There are at most differences in some shades.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u50	And Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u54	Next topic. — Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u56	Now cut. — All right, and Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u57	Mr President! I will answer Mr Mykkänen's and the Assembly's question in two different parts. Firstly, when this government started, we made significant additional contributions to higher education. Basic funding for education, which is also directly linked to research, was reinforced by permanent funding for universities and universities of applied sciences. This was a significant choice of values for Finnish higher education. In addition, the number of places to start training has increased by 10,000. That too is the message that we have future researchers and a freer way to higher education.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u60	The time has now come, and those representatives who wish to ask questions on this subject to the ministers present, please. — And Minister Mykkänen, the former Minister, will continue, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u61	Mr President! We heard explanations, unfortunately not actions. Good government, you can do better. In the alternative budget of the Coalition Party, we will show how the funding of science and product development could be reversed without breaking the spending limits guarded by Saarikko. We would invest EUR 200 million more annually in research and product development. You are now turning science and research into a fall in funding. In addition, we would invest a billion dollars in higher education. You've put things in a different order. There have been more teaching places, but funding for science and research is now turning into a drastic decline. There have been only crumbs of temporary expenditure increases in science, and now the fact is that the government is cutting back on its permanent funding for science by more than EUR 100 million against your promises. Mr Kurvinen, are you at least a fighter? Are you ready to come?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u63	And the time has come. — Minister Kurvinen takes the front row.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u64	Mr President! I am very pleased that science and research are being discussed in this Chamber, because no matter what happens in the future, Finland leans on knowledge and civilisation, and we have always been successful. Contrary to what Mr Mykkänen claims here, the overall funding for science after this parliamentary term will be at a higher level than before we started this work. It is noteworthy that we should not only talk about science funding of the Academy of Finland as such, but that the basic funding of universities is also relevant to this whole of funding for science. Next year there will be no cuts to the Academy of Finland as a result of the fall in the profit margin, but year 23 seems to be a very challenging year. The Coalition Party is also involved in the parliamentary working group, which will consider the way in which: In the future, the proceeds of the bet will be taken care of, and the work there has also progressed quite well. I also believe that the Assembly will be ready to sign my own position in the future, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u65	Like this. — And now, Mr Valtonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u66	Mr President! After all, it is rather sad to hear that the government is simply reducing the total funding for science and research. I hope all Finns now... [ Hulls from the left — The President knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u69	And Minister Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u71	Like this. — And now, Mr Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u72	Mr President! Research and development funding is a common issue and, as Prime Minister Marin has said, it is one of the most important things for Finland's economic growth. As a result, a little wonder arises, which is why the government, which is now recklessly taking up mouths and eyes full of debt, has not dealt with this matter. The Minister of Finance said yesterday that the government debt curve is also red. How on earth has this matter not been dealt with? The Prime Minister has called for the debt rules to be further relaxed and loosened in order to obtain more debt so that this matter of research and development can be dealt with. No, it's okay. In its alternative budget, the coalition shows that with a very responsible budget, this issue could be dealt with. Mr Marin, could you please take a look at this alternative to the coalition and, if necessary, give a little hint to the parliamentary group about how this matter will be handled in a reasonable way, perhaps in a few weeks' time?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u73	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u74	Mr President! The Government has set an ambitious target for raising Finland's research, product development and innovation inputs to 4% of GDP by 2030. This is a very ambitious objective and will require an increase of some EUR 200 million in public funding every year. That is why we have started parliamentary work and we are seeking parliamentary agreement that these contributions will be made in the coming years by 2030. Businesses and business have also called for a long-term outlook for the future in that these investments will increase, and I personally consider this to be very important, improving productivity for the competitiveness of Finland as a whole. This will require parliamentary commitment. In the next negotiations on the Government Programme, those parties that are negotiating will have to resolve — and hopefully those parties that are in those negotiations will commit themselves — that this additional funding will come in the next term of government, and hopefully we will have a parliamentary agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u75	And Mr. Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u76	Honorable Speaker! If that was the quickest I looked at, I guess it was up to about 140 million, so it would have to be added first to reach even the previous year’s level, and then you have to find the 200 million a year. Well, as a party, we are not in favour of selling government property. However, we are a civilised party and we want to support R & D. At such a general level, R & D efforts should be increased in a smart way, and even some key large ecosystems that could be supported should be found. Would they be battery or hydrogen technologies — or what could they be? This is something that the government could also answer. But all research would have to have some kind of commercial potential, yet it would have to be maintained, but science should be able to be commercialised. This is the key question: how can we achieve this? That, too, is what I would like to enquire about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u77	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u78	Mr President! Science and research — without them, for example, we would not have the vaccines that were born so quickly and so quickly, which have saved the world from opening up in the midst of a corona pandemic. Basic Finns of the Civilization Party, [ Arguments about a group of Finns — The President knocks] As far as funding is concerned, I think it is important that the Assembly should also remember that research and development investments are not only being solved with public money, but also private funding is needed. In fact, this really demanding national objective, which has been mentioned many times here, cannot be achieved without strong private funding. Public funding must be long-term and predictable, as the Prime Minister has just said, but private money is also needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u79	And Congressman Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u80	Mr President! Yesterday, indeed, we went through alternative budgets in the Chamber, and the government, of course, barked at them according to its custom. Among other things, the Social Democrats considered our alternative to be heartless. Of course, this makes you wonder how heartless those Social Democrats are in the other Nordic countries when, as the Prime Minister's party, they take even tougher employment reforms forward, in line with our alternative budget. [Right :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u82	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u83	Mr President! As has been done several times in this Chamber, the running of the government from the point of view of employment measures is, in fact, quite extensive and significant. In the Government Programme, we drew up guidelines on the decisions to increase employment by 60,000, and this is what we achieved, so we raised the target to 80,000, and that is why we still raised the target: by mid-February, we are going to have to decide on measures to strengthen public finances for another EUR 110 million. In fact, the government's efforts to improve employment are very substantial. They have been ambitious, and this is the work that we have been doing throughout the reign and we will continue to do. But, of course, we have other challenges in the economy. The shortage of labour mentioned here today is in fact one of the greatest challenges facing us today in terms of economic growth. At the same time, we need to resolve issues relating to the availability of skilled labour and the improvement of productivity, which is also the subject of this debate on research, product development and innovation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u84	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u85	Mr President! Although this government has done a great deal of active labour policy, the challenge for these employment measures is, of course, how that employment objective has also moved forward with an increase in public spending. With 75%, we will no longer be able to balance public finances, but will now require higher employment. That is why, of course, it is very important to be concerned about what Minister Saarikko said: how we can channel private money so that we can then meet the costs of research, development and innovation. Those countries which have achieved, for example, 4% of their R & D expenditure — the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, to which we usually compare — are low-employment countries, have high employment levels and a very diverse business structure. So my question to the government is: if we want to fulfil this promise — hundreds of millions of euros will be added to research, development and innovation — how will we get the private sector to put its money in this country and not in one of our hard competitors?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u86	And Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u87	Mr President! In fact, this money is gradually coming, but surely the most important thing is that we have a clear plan, a clear view of how we are going to proceed to that 4%. Everyone knows that it will not happen without us having private and public money together. Why we came down from four in the past was due to a significant reduction in Nokia’s funding. This is the basic reason that exists. Today, however, we see a good rise on that side, and I must say that, for example, the Slush event that is taking place today is one that also brings investors to these start-ups, but also here on the RD side. Only that we have interesting companies, the best know-how in the world, will also bring RD funding to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u88	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u89	Mr President! You in the government are rightly talking about 4% of GDP, which should then be expenditure on research, development and innovation. That is about ten billion, but last year this expenditure on research and development amounted to 6.9 billion, and the companies responded, as Minister Saarikko rightly said, from almost 70%. They increased investments, but the public sector reduced its investments by 3 per cent. I ask you, Mr Government: why have you allowed the public sector to reduce these research and development efforts, even though you have increased the budget by 9.2 billion compared to the budget? The last budget of the Sipilä government?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u90	And Minister Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u91	Mr President! I do not quite understand what Mr Estilä has to say. So a good idea is definitely and I support the same idea that we need to get our RD spending up. But we have not cut anything from science and education in this parliamentary term. On the contrary, you can say that we have fulfilled the educational promise that has been hoped for across party boundaries and through Finland. We have invested in education at all levels. Hundreds of millions, among other things, for basic funding for universities. We have greatly expanded higher education. There has been a Master's Degree in Engineering in Jyväskylä, there has been psychological education in Oulu. I have just given 3 million to university centres so that we can get all the provinces involved in science and development — 3 million to university centres, 6 to university centres, including Mikkeli, Seinäjoki and Pori. In the future, I am going to expand higher education and regional higher education so that we can also make the euro public. I would like to say to Mr Eestilä that it is a good thing that the business world is strongly responsible for the search. We've got to get to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u92	And time is full. — Mr Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u93	Mr President! The income of the students is already tight as a result of previous weakenings. Now the total would drop students into the old student allowance housing allowance, which was just over 200 euros a month. As a result of the corona crisis, the situation of students is becoming increasingly acute. More and more people suffer from mental health disorders, for example, and in these, income problems are one of the most common underlying causes. I would like to ask the ministers concerned: how does the government support the well-being and livelihood of students, especially as a result of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u94	Minister Kurvine was the first to raise his hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u95	Mr President! Representative Suomela draws attention to a very important issue. When this corona crisis started, we were most concerned about the elderly, rightly so, but yes, ladies and gentlemen, the most expensive price for this crisis has been paid by young generations, young people and students. This is something we need to be aware of. The government has invested twice EUR 6 million in university welfare projects, which cover all higher education institutions, i.e. all university students are involved, and I have made sure that the work is now continuing and progressing there. In addition, we have been able to invest financially in students during this parliamentary term: We have improved student support, including the increase in the number of guardians of family students in the most difficult situation, and I am very happy that next year we will be able to improve the position of students working as the income thresholds for students receiving student financial aid increase clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u96	Instead, the deadline does not rise; it is still a minute. — Representative Jokinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u97	Mr President! This government is cutting basic funding for science by EUR 100 million, and that is true. Now this question of funding research development and innovation concerns all Finns who need welfare services in this state. That's why we need to invest in this section. If there are no investments, then there are no new innovations, no new inventions, no new business success stories, no export products, no tax revenue and, through it, no funding for welfare services. The Coalition Party is committed to this RD funding being committed to 4% of GDP by 2030, and in the alternative budget we are proposing EUR 200 million. The government says that you are committed to this same goal, but where are the acts? I don't see any funding in the budget. Let's just talk about the working groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u98	All right, and it's pretty full. — Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u99	Mr President! When we compare the policy of this government with that of research, product development, innovation or education, for example, with the policy of previous governments, we can say that this government has made considerable investments in education, research, product development. And we are proud of this. This is the right policy, it is a wise policy, it is a far-reaching policy. I am very pleased that the delegation here promises that you are committed to that 4% target. If the assembly is in the next government program negotiations, I assume that you will stick to this promise and commitment. Last time you were on the board, you cut out the education.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u100	And Mr Mykkänen, who raised this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u101	Mr President! Minister Kurvinen, these additions that you share, you share from a university pot that does not really cover even new starting points. Prime Minister Marin, your answer can be summed up in such a way that this government sets ambitious targets and hopes that the next one will be implemented. Mr Mäkynen's parliamentary committee has really made good progress and it has been well drawn, but I can reveal the secret that the shampoo has not been forged there. There will be a proposal for long-term funding, hopefully, but it will require targeting within the spending limits. With regard to the Prime Minister's speech here, we can agree that, at least in the next government negotiations, the Coalition Party will pursue a 4 % career and will be prepared to make the same choices as in the alternative budget. Can we mutually agree that this government will make the same choice for next year and 2023?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u102	And now Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u103	Mr President! As described here, this government has invested in education. We have invested in research and product development. These investments will be made, but this target of 4% will be for 2030. Of course, this government cannot make the financial decisions of future governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u104	Mr Räsänen will present the following subject to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u105	Mr President! Yesterday, in this Chamber, we discussed the alternative budget for Christian Democrats, in which we are proposing an investment of more than half a billion euros next year in the dismantling of care debts and the hiring of workers in health centres, hospitals, elderly services and social services. Yesterday I did not receive an answer as to why the government is not taking action in this regard. More and more nurses are currently planning to change their jobs. We already have over 70,000 social services professionals at other jobs. You do make some good points about nursing and the care guarantee, but they're not gonna do that. We need resources, we need money. The solution should not be postponed until after the administrative reforms have been completed, but measures are needed now, resources are needed to enable recruitment, better pay, better use of the private sector by increasing Kela compensations and more training,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u106	Like this. — And Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u107	Mr President! I am glad that the Christian Democrats have noticed that social and health care will need money in the long term, it is quite obvious. On the subject, I have a slight disagreement as to whether or not the sections of the Finnish Parliament will protect the Finnish people. Yes, every section that improves the current status quo in Parliament needs funding. An unprecedented amount of funding has been invested in the section of social welfare and health care during this term of government. The fact is that there have been hundreds of millions of increases in the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health during this term of government, and I am very pleased that we have tried to change the direction precisely in the way in which elderly people are treated in this country and in the way in which children and young people and families are treated in this society, and I would not belittle the work that has already been done, and I am delighted that,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u108	Like this. — Now for the reply, Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u109	Thank you, Mr President! Let's go to these things. The articles on the staffing of the elderly are coming into force in April 2023, but these good articles, which we have also called for, mean the need for more than 4,000 nurses to be able to put them into practice as a good treatment for the elderly. You have intended to finance part of this by removing the Kela compensation for private medical visits, which would actually saw the very branch of health care resources. On the contrary, a temporary correction of the Kela compensation would now be needed in order to pay off this maintenance debt. You don't have the funding to implement these old-age care articles. I mean, the articles are good, but they don't work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u110	Like this. — Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u111	President! In order to improve the position of older people in this country, it is only so, Mr Räsänen, that Parliament must also have the backbone to ensure that legislation guarantees a better position for people. Regrettably, there is a need for those articles, and it is the most important day job for all of this people that laws are passed here to improve the position of people. I would not underestimate the fact that, after more than ten years, we received a significant improvement in the position of the elderly, who are in 24 - day care. It has been underestimated here, but its value is not greatly recognized. At the same time, I say that we in social and health care should have been awakened ten years ago to doing what you wish and what we have set in motion. We need more people for this work, and labour market organisations are currently working for the government of the country,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u112	That is how, and Mr Harkimo will present the following topic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u118	Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u119	Mr President! When we return to that spring 2020 and failed equipment supplies, it is clear that we should have checked the background of those from whom protective equipment is ordered. However, this was not the case and therefore the case was cleared up by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and Minister Haatainen, who received the report and, as a result, the CEO resigned at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u120	The last topic will be presented to us by Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Jutta Urplainen, the Social Democratic Minister for Finance and current Euro-Commissioner, said in her day that Finland will not hang on the euro at all costs. In view of the federal development of the EU and the disastrous situation in Italy, when its banks are dominated by organised crime, and the fact that the other EU-North countries decided not to join the euro, not to mention the inflation rate of almost 5% in the euro area, I ask the government: how are you prepared for the euro gap and the collapse of the euro area ahead? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u122	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u123	Mr President! Of course, it is not always easy for different Member States to reconcile views, and the path of the single currency has also been stony, but, Mr Turtiainen, the government is not planning to depart from the euro currency.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u124	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u125	Mr President! Public employment and business services are intended to introduce new digital information systems services. The aim of the digital administration and services reform is to improve the matching of workers and jobs and the utilisation of digitalisation artificial intelligence in public employment and business services. The current customer information system of the Employment and Economic Development Offices would therefore be replaced by a new set of national customer information systems, the Labour Market Square service platform and the customer information reserve. The proposal includes proposals for legislative changes that will enable the introduction of new information systems services for the employment and economic administration, in particular the Labour Market Market Square. The main reforms of the proposal concern the labour market market market service platform and the job search profiles to be drawn up and published on it. The labour market market market would introduce a functional approach that would improve the matching of workers and jobs and improve the efficiency of the employment services. This new approach, which uses artificial intelligence, would provide job seekers with job vacancies so that the best information that fits the job search profile would be shown first in the search results. For an employer looking for an employee, contact functionality would provide job search profiles published on a service platform so that profiles that correspond to the best-declared search criteria would be the first in the search results. These job search profiles would also provide better opportunities for anonymous job search, which gives us a new tool to combat discrimination in recruitment situations, such as the foreign name. The use of labour market markets would be free of charge for both personal and corporate customers. In addition, the proposal clarifies and updates the regulation on the processing of customer information for public employment and business services. While the data to be processed and their uses would largely remain unchanged, it is proposed that the roles related to the processing of personal data should be changed so that the municipalities involved in the municipal experiment to promote employment, as well as the Social Insurance Institution and municipalities involved in the multidisciplinary joint employment service, are designated as controllers for information about their own customers. It would be a matter of keeping a common register together with the Centres for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment (Ely Centres) and the Centre for the Development and Administration of Employment and Economic Development Offices (KEHA Centre). The responsibilities of business registers would be defined in the legislation in such a way that the KEHA Centre would continue to be responsible for the data protection and security tasks of the data controller in the customer information system package and the data reserve. Municipalities participating in municipal trials and in the case of cross-sectoral joint service, Kela and municipalities would be responsible for other controller duties. The proposed amendment to the controller is necessary in order to allocate the responsibilities and tasks related to the processing of personal data to the right parties. This proposal does not include proposals for new tasks for government or municipal authorities. The KEHA Centre will continue to be responsible for the maintenance and development of the customer information system and other electronic services. This proposal is also expected to have positive effects on employment. They are based on the new matching function of the Labour Market Market Square, which would speed up and streamline both the job search of the personal customer and the recruitment process of employers. This new functionality would also be one way of solving the problem of confrontation. It is estimated that around 200-1200 people could have been deployed in 2019, using matching functionality. The estimated annual impact on employment can be considered to be very significant as it is a question of permanent and cumulative effects. The proposed changes are expected to enter into force in May next year, with the start of the phasing-in of new information system services. This Labour Market Square service platform would be introduced in May next year. For the rest, the renewed services of customers and experts would be introduced from next year's autumn. The revised information system services would have been fully operational by the end of 23. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u126	Thank you, Minister Haatainen. — Now to the list of speakers, Mr Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u127	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Haatainen, for this presentation. In practice, this government proposal replaces the career system that has reached the end of its life, and this reform has a very positive objective: to provide job seekers and employers with digital services that better respond to their needs. It is also intended that the reform will make things much smoother than they are at present. I also think that the important objective of the reform is also that we will be better able to respond to the problems of matching in the workplace, which we have already talked about in Question Time today. The costs of recruiting companies will hopefully also fall with this bill. That is at least the strong purpose of this legislation, as I understand it. The fact that these new digital services will be introduced gradually, as Mr Haatainen has just said in his own presentation, has certainly been carefully assessed during the drafting of this law that it is the most sensible thing to do. But I have to say it, and I feel strongly on the basis of all the feedback from the field that these functional customer information systems and electronic services, the maintenance and development of them, will be absolutely key if the spirit of this law and the state of will that has been set for this law are to be achieved. But all in all we can support the government's bill, which we will then receive under President Aino-Kaisa Pekonen to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities for a deeper and wider discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u128	Like this. — and Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u129	Mr President! It is very good that these electronic services are also being developed on the side of the employment services. This is all about the unfortunate thing that I have been talking about for ten years now in this house: building a high-speed broadband network in the countryside has progressed, but it should really be taken as a matter of heart in the Finnish Parliament. It is strange that we are leaving a large part of Finland without proper services, because surely every single Member of Parliament in this Chamber has been restored by making the kind of speech that we need to make the information move faster, better education, better transport, better jobs and so on. All of these require high-speed broadband networks based on optical fibre technology. I'm tired of being told that 5G technology is coming. Does one of you, ladies and gentlemen, think that the 5G network is capable of implementing the rural broadband network? Yes, if there is enough money every 400 metres to build masts in the middle of Finland's forests and then spread the 5G network throughout Finland, we will do it, but it will cost tens of billions — when we do not seem to have 50 million dollars to support the broadband network, then we will start to falter that 5G will take care of it. The second point is not related to today's subject, but it is a good comparison: we have certainly talked about the indecent condition of the road network, which is ten years lower. All the money for it is there, but when I have tried to get to the Fairway Office and the Ministry of Transport and where to take information that it is easy to do the right thing to do when you pick the right machines — the road planers back on the road network, put those road surfaces in order and two or three times in a year put that shape right, that's it. But in this way the way we live now, money is wasted and services are bad. All those great programs we do are so huge that they're useless with these 4G systems trying to move them. Because of the lack of a digital network, due to the lack of a high-speed broadband network, it will not work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u130	Like this. — and Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u131	Mr President! Indeed, this active labour market policy, which is the subject of the government's proposal, is obviously sensible and important. That question period discussed the name of these labour market policy measures, and of course there is a little discussion on the sidelines in itself, if there is a meta-debate about whether it is now an active model number one or whether it is an active model number two. It may be an active model of this government, but it is good that there is an active labour policy. It does not really make it worse to call it an active model, for example. There was also that interesting aspect of the previous debate, or this was actually drawn from yesterday's debate in relation to these alternative budgets, that the measures that, in Sweden, for example, the very Social Democrats-led governments have taken and certainly consider to be good are, in Finland, heartless and cold measures in the speeches of the Social Democrats. This is not the case, but, of course, a policy that helps people to find employment, not only helps people to improve their own livelihoods, but helps them to take care of their loved ones and find their own place in society, is that hearty, good policy. That is why, of course, I am encouraging the government to become even more active in this labour market policy. This is a small step in the right direction, and more of these. But it must also be acknowledged by the government that such leaps must also be made; these mere little steps are not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u132	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u133	Mr President! Two thousand years ago, Senator Cato, in the Senate of Rome, concluded every speech: “Karthagoon to be destroyed. “ Mr Hoskonen starts almost every speech by guaranteeing broadband access to sparsely populated areas. And Mr Kiljunen will take the floor one after the other to say that there is a problem of digital discrimination. Mr President! On this subject, I would have said a few words in this context as employment services are now being developed in this direction of digitalisation to be better and more effective. In this respect, I do not want to be an obstacle to development. I recognise that digitalisation has come to stay and much more efficient and helpful in creating these more efficient services. But then it becomes ‘but’:we have a whole population of people in this society, who find this digitalisation too problematic,are The most vulnerable groups of jobseekers are definitely older jobseekers. They're having trouble finding employment. Another genuinely vulnerable group of jobseekers is those with a foreign background. In both these groups, there are relatively more people who have difficulty coping with computer-based service systems and fall outside. In this regard, it would be hoped that, now that the government is taking this program forward, the need will also be identified and the service systems where this personal encounter is possible and these services will also be provided at close range so that, personally, this can be secured, especially when it comes to the most vulnerable groups of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u134	Congressman Laukkanen is gone. — Mr Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u135	Mr President! At the outset, it must be said to Mr Auto that this government has not prepared an active model in any form. This proposal is now about customer information and a service platform, and I thank the Minister for a good presentation. Indeed, as the Minister has already said, this government proposal will enable the introduction of new digital TE services, the labour market market market platform and a new matching function, which has also been calculated to have significant employment effects. There are no reforms to the customer process here. This government proposal has been long-awaited, and it is really great that we can finally get the old and tough career system changed to a new one and also resourced the money to it. At the same time, it is of course important to make technical changes so that the law is up-to-date in terms of data protection, among other things. President! I would also like to say to that speaker, Mr Automotive, when he referred to the alternative budget for the Assembly and the labour policy there, that, at the end of the table, I personally see that cutting unemployment benefit does not bring any new jobs to this country. Active labour market policies must be made by other means.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u136	Now, a one-minute reply to Mr Auto, but do not mention the name of any representative. I don't think I'm going to be able to do more than that at this point in my life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u137	Mr President! Indeed, I am surprised that this model of active labour policy is called an active model is a bad thing. That is a good thing, and the active models have such a good history in Finland that 140,000 new jobs were created during the previous government and, for example, debt was broken down. Now that, in the midst of the corona crisis, we have been forced to go into severe debt with the broad consensus of Parliament, Finland’s starting point for public finances was much better. Now, of course, we no longer agree with the government in the opposition that the government should, for example, go beyond the framework. On the contrary, we would now like to see an even more active labour market policy. In this respect, I wonder why these means of the coalition cannot be put to use by the government, because they are quite concrete in terms of both Parliament's information service and, say, the Ministry of Finance estimates that there would be work for the Finns. And what would be heartwarming is that unemployed people get to work from unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u138	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u139	Mr President! Of course it's important that the job and the employee meet. Of course, it is good that these new systems are being considered, but it must always be taken into account, too, that there should be effectiveness in those matters: not only is it enough to have different kinds of great computer systems, but it must also be effective. When I was listening to this case when they told me that there was also an anonymous job search, it kind of got me thinking, "What do you think that's gonna do, and why did I see it? Could it be more transparent if it were not necessarily the anonymous one? As far as this future active model is concerned, what the government is planning, it is interesting that if you have to apply for four jobs within a month, in practice it means that approximately every seven days you have to apply for that job. Then if you think about these public job searches, will such public job searches be reduced? Many jobs may be that they do not put those jobs open, but there may be a huge pile of applications, even from people who do not necessarily want that job, and of course we must take account of the distance, especially at these fuel prices. True Finns would have liked to lower fuel prices and taxes, but when cars are used, and the car is not such a luxury vehicle, but it is a tool for many people to work. Of course, it is important that the work and the employee meet, but should not let these kinds of systems be completely automated, but must be required that they are impressive, and must look at them not to go where it has gone, for example on the social and health side, that no systems discuss with each other and the current situation is absolutely inconceivable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u140	Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u141	All right, now the microphone's turned red. Mr President! This development of the information system on that side of the Employment and Economic Development Offices has been expected to rise like the moon in the sense and to the extent that information has been passed on to it that this is going on. A little feedback has come from the fact that this came a little unexpectedly and out of the bushes — the need has always been known. In the committee's deliberations on a number of different issues, we have come across the fact that certain processes are still being carried out manually and manually during this golden age of information technology, which really slows down and complicates all the discussions on the subject, and it does give rise to a great deal of surprise. So in that sense, the project is very, very good. The user side has become very concerned about the schedule. Here we have the additional challenges of the interest rate, the municipal testing of the tasks of the TE Offices, now the active models and others at hand at the same time, and then re-introduce the IT system, improve it and make a new service platform. Here's a little bit of a sign in the air that can go bad. I hope I'm completely wrong. True, the background may be a little bit of experience with the Apot and the like, whose principles and arguments are very good, but these IT systems want these practical problems to look a little different. Mr Reijonen raised a point which I myself have here on the French line above. These reforms, which are all over the world, whether they have this Nordic job search service or whatever, now have such a knock-on effect that job advertisements, job vacancies, may not be made public. And this is a point that we should find out in the committee debate that this is not going to happen, because it does not serve either the unemployed job seeker or the company, if it is going to happen, that it does not want to open up job vacancies to the public. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u142	Thank you. — And I will give the floor to Mr Pekonen and Mr Laukkanen, and then to Mr Haatainen. — Mr Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u143	Mr President! Let's just be brief. I cannot help but note that I find it a little unusual that, here in Parliament's Chamber, this point is still discussing both the active model and the alternative budget for the majority. I would also like to say to Mr Auto that the active model does have such a bad echo. It was such an unfair and unfair model that this government dismantled, and we do not want to continue along that path. Active labour market policies can be made in a completely different way. As far as this government proposal, which Mr Haatainen has presented to us here, I agree with Mr Slunga-Poutsalo's words that this has really been expected, and then we will deal with this carefully in committee when we get it there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u144	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u145	Mr President! The performance is very welcome, and thank you for that. I would like to point out from this Active Model 2, that I personally do not see it as any Active Model II. I've been sitting twice for 500 days. I know what it is when you're unemployed. I also know the expectations and demands associated with it. I think it is a good part of the Nordic model in which people get a clear person with whom they can make this employment plan from the outset, so that they can at least have some sort of ambition in terms of employment. With regard to this proposal, as an alternate member of the committee, I may even come and deal with it, because this is a very welcome reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u148	Secretary Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u149	Mr President! Thank you for these comments and questions. Many speakers asked how this now goes together with these big reforms that are coming — Slunga-Poutsalo and many people asked about it. Now this Nordic model of employment services, which will be completed first, will be anchored in this context, that it will fit and run along with this new system. Similarly, when the TE services are being permanently transferred to municipalities in 2024, this will also be taken into account that this information system and customer data processing will then go together with that legislation. They're all going through these things all the time, and they've been looking at this from a lot of angles. Mr Kiljunen raised an important issue: digital discrimination and the inability of all people to use these digital services. Firstly, it is one thing that these systems, these digital services, must be user-friendly and clear. No matter how you know how to use a computer and systems, if the systems are not clear, it is impossible. So we're going to pay attention to this. But then the other thing is that, for those who do not have the ability or access to digital services, there is still a face-to-face service, and that is what the Nordic employment service model is going to do: it really is going to make a powerful contribution to meeting face to face. Then you can also do business by phone and then you will also see to it that you support your customers to learn how to use these systems. Mr Reijonen then asked about this anonymous search. It seeks that these profiles are anonymous, which means that even the employer does not make the decisions on the basis of the age or type of person, but looks at what is knowledge, what is education, and it comes first to him. Of course, when he takes an interview and otherwise, there you can discuss and see if you are suitable for the job. This reform of the system is really... I know, there is a constant message that this current system is certainly in the final stages, and that is why this has been expected, and that is what I understood from the speeches made by the representatives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u150	Thank you. — Mr Autto, is your speech less than 3 minutes from your own seat?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u151	Mr President! So I certainly support this government proposal. This takes things in the right direction, that is certainly not the case. Nor do I want to prolong this debate in any way, but in order to discuss this matter itself, so I now want to ask when I have access to this kind of YLE graphics. There's a journalist right here under the name of Ilkka Kemppinen. The source is the Government. And this is clearly the active model of Sipilä's government and the model of Marin's government. And what is required of a job seeker? In both models 0-4 applications per month. Well, what if he doesn't? The first time in both models becomes a reminder. For the second time in the active model of Sipilä's government, the temperament of 10 days, in the Marini government model, the temperament of 5 days. From the third time In the Sipilä board model, the temperament 20 days, in the Marin board's active model, the temperament 10 days,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u154	That is the case, and more can be done in point 7.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u155	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. Here, too, 30 minutes are reserved for referrals. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Let's go to the conversation. Secretary Andersson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u156	Mr President! I will bring before Parliament a proposal to amend the early childhood education law. The proposal proposes to amend the early childhood education law to remove the regulation of the private service provider’s notification procedure in relation to day care activities. Instead of the notification procedure, private day-care activities would continue to be subject to authorisation. The Government Programme contains a clear entry on the reservation of permits for private day care activities. This entry is worded as follows: ‘Private early education services must fulfil the same quality criteria as those of the public. The activities of private providers of early childhood education services must be subject to authorisation. Whether restricting the pursuit of profit, like basic education, can be extended to early childhood education.’ It is proposed to provide for authorisation for the pursuit of private day-care activities, the application for authorisation, the granting of an authorisation, the modification of the authorisation and the withdrawal of the authorisation. In addition, technical amendments are proposed to the Act on Early Childhood Education to correct references to the notification procedure by references to the subject matter of authorisation. Private family day care would remain subject to the notification procedure. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the quality of private day care activities and to ensure the implementation of the early childhood education law in private day care activities. The aim of the authorisation requirement for private day care activities is to strengthen the early supervision of private early childhood education by shifting the focus of supervision more clearly from ex post control to ex ante supervision and to clarify the role of different authorities in the authorisation process. The aim of the proposal is also to regulate the existing legislation more precisely on the conditions for obtaining and possibly losing authorisation and to harmonise the procedure for obtaining the authorisation by the authorities. The proposal also aims to ensure that private day-care activities, like other educational systems, are subject to authorisation, taking into account the specific features of day-care activities. At present, private providers of early childhood education services do not need permission to start or change their activities, but are based on the notification procedure. When a new day-care centre is set up, the municipality receives and inspects the service provider’s declaration, inspects the premises of the day-care centre and checks compliance with the general conditions of the service provider. Once the necessary checks have been carried out, the service provider may start to provide the service even if the Regional State Administrative Agency has not yet verified that the service provider fulfils the conditions laid down in the Act on Early Education and registered the establishment in the register of private service providers. However, the municipalities have very different resources to check and verify the conditions for private service provision and, as a result, it is possible to start early childhood education activities even when the general conditions laid down in the Act on Early childhood Education are not met. The most important changes in the scope of authorisation relate to the start-up, modification and clarification of the tasks between authorities, and the application for authorisation to start a new day-care centre would be submitted directly to the licensing authority, the Regional State Administrative Agency. Day care activities should not be initiated or any substantial change in activities taken before approval by the licensing authority and the municipalities would be responsible for carrying out the necessary checks at the request of the licensing authorities. Article 4 of the Early Childhood Education Act requires that, when planning, organising, producing and deciding on early childhood education, the best interests of the child must be taken into account. It is appropriate that the economic and professional conditions of all service providers be carefully examined before the start of the activity and that the use of private day-care centres be subject to authorisation, ensuring the quality of early childhood education, increasing consistency and predictability as regards the granting and withdrawal of the authorisation and clarifying the division of labour between public authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u157	Like this. — and Mr Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u158	Mr President! With this proposal, the Government wishes to bring private day care providers into the scope of the authorisation procedure rather than the current notification procedure. This would mean that the establishment of a private day care centre would require authorisation in the future and would not be sufficient for a notification of the start of operations. As such, quality standards would remain exactly the same. This change is justified by the fact that early childhood education is as high as possible. However, the proposal seems to have started to do so on the basis of an individual case and without meeting its purpose. In fact, there is only one example in which day care activities can be started, even though they have not fulfilled the conditions laid down in the law — that is, a single case. The Government’s proposal creates the impression that day care activities could be started without the conditions being met. This is not true in the context of the current system either. On that we are certainly all in agreement that every Finnish child deserves only the best early childhood education in the world. It is therefore quite another matter whether such an increase in bureaucracy will contribute to the quality of early childhood education in any way. Even the Supervisory Authority, the Regional State Administrative Agency, has made critical statements about this change in law, and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. Increasing bureaucracy is always a matter on which to stop and think a moment before making decisions and ask yourself: does this increase in red tape actually drive what would be desired? Will this change improve the quality of early childhood education? Quality may not improve, but the workload will increase for companies, municipalities and supervisory authorities alike. It requires resources. It cannot be assumed that new requirements can be managed with dignity without additional resources. In addition to these costs, consideration can also be given to whether the change in the law creates excessive obstacles and increases in costs for starting a business and creating new day care centres. Municipalities will not be able to cope without private operators who contribute to our ability to provide day care services comprehensively. Private day-care providers should not be seen as bogeymen or, on ideological grounds either, to create legislation that consciously makes it difficult to act in this area and even without even improving the reasons for the change, ensuring and developing quality. I see a good starting point behind this change in the law, but in recent years there have also been many changes in early childhood education that have had a good background, but the means have been such that they have only scrapped Finnish early childhood education. Let us take a few examples: The restoration of subjective day care was a beautiful gesture. Every child can now enter the day care centre again, regardless of the need for a place of care. It has increased the need for new day care centres and hand pairs. Again, the costs of municipalities have increased. The labour force for day care centres does not seem to be sufficient, because during the last term of the government, the demands of early farmers were changed, even though experts said where it would lead to a shortage of labour. The number of children in day - care centres may have increased because early childhood education fees were lowered. Great decision and gesture, but the income from customer payments to municipalities has thus decreased. This was compensated but not fully. Mr President! All of these are examples of the way in which the quality of early childhood education has been thought beautifully but in fact scrapped and the costs and working pressure on the local authorities have been increased. Good will has led to a bad outcome. I hope that the consequences of this legislative amendment which is now going to committee will be carefully weighed so that we do not go out of the ditch again. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u159	And Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u160	Mr President! The Board of Directors proposes that the day-care centre activities should not be initiated or materially modified from 23 onwards before approval by the licensing authorities. New service providers entering the sector should apply for authorisation to carry out private day care activities instead of notification. The focus will therefore be shifted from ex-post control to ex-ante control. The reason for the authorisation is that it will safeguard the quality of private day care activities. I am sure we all agree that a child deserves first-class early childhood education, but does this change in the law contribute to it? Will it be in the interests of companies, children or municipalities? As pointed out in the expert opinions, the objectives of the proposal are not necessarily achieved by providing for authorisation, but could also be achieved in other ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u161	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u162	Mr President! As such, this bill is welcome, and it is a good thing that this supervision of private day care centres becomes a posture. As a municipal decision-maker in Helsinki, I have long been watching what is happening here in the field, and unfortunately we have had more cases where the quality criteria have not been met and where the municipality has not necessarily had the means to monitor the content of the activity well enough from an economic point of view either. So we have had such cases where, for example, a large private, 200-year-old day-care centre has gone bankrupt quite unexpectedly, and then it is ultimately a municipality that is responsible for taking responsibility for how these children will be organized on very fast notice for new day-care places. In other words, I very much welcome the fact that we are going to be able to get a grip on this system. In my opinion, this explanatory statement of the government's proposal also well described the development of this field in the sense that multinational, very large, profit-making companies have come into this field, which have then eaten out these smaller players and association-based day-care centres. This has also brought with it such aggressive expansion, which has also been followed in Helsinki, that very many private day-care centres have been opened and then suddenly they have been closed down when the activities have not been economically viable, and then the municipality has taken over the responsibility for organising those day-care facilities. In other words, I very much welcome the fact that efforts are now being made to find solutions to this. Of course, as Mr Simula has said here, we in the committee will then carefully assess whether this government proposal is as good as it is and what possible problems it may contain. It is very welcome that we are also prepared to have a critical debate on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u163	Like this. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u164	Mr President! The Government Programme includes a record that private early childhood education services must operate on the same qualitative criteria as public ones. This government proposal therefore proposes to amend the early childhood education law so that, instead of the current notification procedure, the law provides for the authorisation of private day care activities. Licensing therefore means control of operations in advance, and reporting obligations mean ex post control of operations. The aim of this proposal is therefore, of course, to ensure the quality of private day care activities and to ensure the implementation of the early childhood education law. President! At best, public and private day care activities complement each other. Such a world of confrontation is not worth it. For example, in my own hometown — and also in the hometown of the chairman of the Committee on Education — in Seinäjoki, a private Christian day care centre and also a private Steiner day care centre have long offered good and popular alternatives. More recent acquaintances are also private day-care centres, where emphasis is placed on e.g. sports, music, English language, forest activities or organic food. These weightings are based on the wishes and needs of customers and have worked very well. Private day care centres have also offered us, for example, the opportunity to use the service voucher for early childhood education. Providing a service voucher will bring the flexibility needed for a rapidly growing city and will also complement the services provided. President! Of course, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights will examine this bill thoroughly in accordance with its custom and, of course, with due respect for the importance of the matter — and in particular, as in many other cases, the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u165	Like this. — Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u166	Mr President! I consider certain objectives of this law to be good and in the right direction, but this regulation, which has now been put into effect, is unnecessary. I think the procedure is too heavy. This could have been done differently, even according to many expert opinions, for example by reviewing regulations and by means already available to the Ministry of Education and Culture and the National Board of Education. In other words, the procedure that is now being applied for is, in my view, unnecessary. The fact that attention is paid to this quality and the fact that these economic and professional conditions are being fulfilled is also welcome. But the fact that this bureaucracy is being increased so significantly does not seem to me to be good at this, as does many experts. Then here the representative mentioned the scope of this service network, which is now also in Seinäjoki, and especially in the capital region and large cities there are many different pedagogical approaches to education, there are world-viewed approaches to education. And I am concerned that now that all of these are being brought here as if under the scrutiny of the education administration, there will then be different needs as if even more constraints than are being done at the moment. This is the concern I see here, and I hope that the committee in which I am not myself will also be able to hold a debate on the future of world-view and pedagogical schools. If the idea behind this is that in some way the world view, for example in Christian schools, can be seen — as I have heard such rumours about that Ministry of Education — then the direction is again restrictive. It limits normal life, the freedom of individuals, the right of families to choose education, early childhood education and kindergartens for their children, and I am a little concerned about this. But otherwise I think that this kind of integrated monitoring could be improved, but not by such a heavy procedure. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u167	Like this. — and Mr Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u168	Mr President! In fact, here Mr Laukkanen summed up my own ideas quite well, as did many colleagues earlier, which I woke up with in connection with this government proposal. So now the government is making a very significant contribution to more governance, bureaucracy, regulation, to that field of early childhood education. I was going through some of the points that are now being put in place, and that is a rather large amount of regulation. For my part, Mr President, I can say from that West Coast that we moved to that service voucher activity in Rauma some years ago in early childhood education and we have been extremely satisfied with it. We also have some non-national actors in the city, and it has also highlighted the freedom of choice for families and also the possibility to influence where they want to obtain that service. And of course, the city will then have the responsibility and responsibility not only of its own production but also of those who provide the service. That is what I would like to emphasise. But, Mr President, I am not at all convinced that these measures, which the government is proposing, will suddenly improve quality. I do not know, because the quality of it will be improved by measures of a completely different nature than by increasing administration and bureaucracy. Mr. Speaker! Now that this early childhood education law is open and paragraph 43 is still open, I would like to raise another issue which we have discussed with the Minister in the past. It has to do with the situation of day care centres. The School of Teacher Education in Rauma has opened the first day-care centre in Finland, and I believe that in the coming years a system similar to the training schools will be born in Finland, but at the moment this Article 43 of the Act will apply. does not recognise the university as a producer of early childhood education. This has now led the University of Turku to have had to set up its own company to run this day-care centre, instead of this day-care centre, related research, teaching and high-quality early childhood education being part of this whole university, the mother. That is why we have asked the Minister and the Ministry to clarify paragraph 43 so that the University of Turku does not have to set up a separate limited liability company, but that it can be managed by a lighter administration, a lighter bureaucracy, because I believe that this objective is shared. So I ask the Minister why this law has not taken account of the concerns and performance of the University of Turku, which we have discussed with you in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u169	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u170	Mr President! Here, colleagues Marttinen and Laukkanen have well put into words the amazement of what is currently in that field. The question on the early childhood education side is: what is the reason why the government wants to increase this bureaucracy and administration, while this is not really about to interfere with the early childhood education itself, its contents and others? With the current notification procedure and then the control of the openings working well, the question is inevitably raised here as to whether there is now some kind of ideological need for the government to go, especially on the private side, in this way in some way, to take a firmer stance and whether this might be some kind of first step in some direction, since we do not really know what we are after all trying to achieve. Is it perhaps the intention to go out with some kind of criteria for operators and perhaps to go down the road to restrict their opportunities for professional activity and, on the other hand, to free trade? I cannot help but recall that the Minister has made quite strong speeches about the fact that early childhood education must not be profit-oriented. Of course, because of ideological differences and perhaps because of differences in professional background, we may have a different idea of what that profit is. As an economist, I have learned that for a very long time a company will not be able to stand up if it does not make a profit, so it must try to make a positive result. That is a different matter if it means that companies are trying to make a profit by having children's safety or their welfare or something else at stake, and then they're wrapping those big bills in their own pockets. Something of this kind, perhaps in these ideological speeches by the Minister, seems to be intended with this aim of profit. We Christian Democrats see it very important that families have freedom of choice. The freedom of choice and the opportunity to give the kind of educational emphasis that parents want leaves the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In that sense, for example, Christian day - care centres have finely supplemented this provision of early childhood education. I will give you an example of my own municipality in the Gulf of Lapland: there the Christian Democrats took the Council initiative, where the address and contact details of two such private early childhood education places in our municipality were also placed on the municipal website just because they want to tell the municipality that there are different options and opportunities for early childhood education in our municipality when families are looking for where to put their children and what kind of opportunities they have. The Gulf of Lapland has for good early education. In that sense:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u171	And now it's three minutes full. — Mr Autto, followed by Mr Risikko, and then by a reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u172	Mr President! It is sometimes surprising to hear these speeches from the left side of the Chamber, for example, that, for example, there is no profit to be sought. After all, a company must make a profit so that it can invest and create new ones, for example. What is absolutely essential in day care activities is that there are, for example, health-proof properties for children and staff, and if the company does not make a profit, it cannot in any way invest in the condition of the properties, for example. In this sense, I would like to ask the Minister whether this new bureaucracy will now be more burdensome, as it was horrified from the clearly left-hand side of the Chamber that even such international actors would come to Finland in this area. Which is more burdened by this bureaucracy: the small local entrepreneur, who very often is the sole administration of the entire daycare company, or the large international operator who may well be able to have a whole legal unit there, which then rolls papers, when the Minister hopes that more paper will be rolled over? This is truly extraordinary to want to create such a model that has nothing to do with the early childhood education itself. I see that the quality of early childhood education in Finland must be ensured, and this will certainly happen, for example, in the way that we have the best education for early childhood education teachers in the world, the training of staff working in the sector in general. In that sense, for example, the question raised by Mr Marttinen was absolutely essential, why, for example, universities cannot act in the future as organisers of this day care activity, because that is where they will be trained in the field. Finally, there is the need for private operators in this sector to complement the range of services provided by municipalities and cities. I'm sure they'll need those little local players. It is good that there will also be those big players who will then be able to invest in growth cities, for example, that there is enough room for children to get into day care. What is essential is that, even in this field of early childhood education, as in all aspects of life, the market works, that the market is functioning in such a way that there are sufficiently many different players, so that there are no monopolistic or oligopolistic situations that would then be overly dependent on one actor. For example, when using a service voucher, parents visit the site on a daily basis to check that quality is what has been agreed. If the quality is not what has been agreed and what has been promised, then parents will take its service voucher somewhere else to ensure that the market works. But if there is a situation where the city is not
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u173	And now, Mr Risikko, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u174	Mr President! I will now focus on this bill itself. Good speeches have been made here as to why private services are also needed in this early childhood education, but this proposal proposes that the organisation of early childhood education be subject to authorisation, i.e. instead of the current notification procedure, the law would provide for the authorisation of private day care activities. However, private family day care would remain under the current notification procedure. The start of operations or the implementation of a material change would therefore require the approval of the licensing authority, the Regional State Administrative Agency. Well, the experts in the consultation gave the draft government proposal a complete nudge. Several opinions state that the draft law increases bureaucracy and does not add value to the current situation. There is no point in making unnecessary regulation. The Regional State Administrative Agencies are also of the opinion that the authorisation of private early childhood education does not add value to the quality of early childhood education or to ensuring that the early childhood education law is implemented. The agencies take the view that no legislative amendment should be made in accordance with the proposal. Private operators already have the same statutory obligations in the organisation of early childhood education as the public. Finnish Entrepreneurs consider that the need for authorisation increases the administrative burden unduly on small private operators, thus making it difficult for them to operate and then, in the longer term, reducing private early childhood education production in a situation where the need for it in municipalities is increasing. Fortunately, now that we still have a minister here, I would like to ask straight away: what is the government really trying to achieve with this proposal? According to experts' estimates, the government's proposal does not bring about a change in the quality of services, and it seems that this is completely ideological and is based again on the opposition of this government to private service production, both in spirit and in blood and to the end. Why is the government not listening to experts? This gives authorisation to regional government agencies which themselves have suggested that this law should not be promoted in the form proposed. They have set an alternative model in which they say: ‘The most appropriate and most appropriate option would be to change the existing early education law,that private early education cannotbe started before the regional administration has registered a service producer’s office. “ Why was this option not taken into account in the Ministry? Thirdly, I am interested in the fact that, when you also have another minister in the Ministry and they always have such a counterpart in the parties, did Mr Kurvinen make any effort to influence the content of this law. I would have thought there would be some sense in the city centre, but I ask in all sincerity: Curvine in any way to influence this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u175	That is how we have spent half an hour on this, but at the end of the day we have spoken to the Minister. — 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u176	Mr President! Of course, all government proposals are joint government proposals and all government parties will then stand behind their legislative proposals. Let me get started more generally: there has been talk of ideology in many speeches and of what kind of strange ideology this is. I would say, for example, that if you look at how our basic education legislation has been regulated, then there is an explicit ban on profit-making on the basic education side. Nevertheless, we have private education providers who also maintain and organise basic education. In other words, this is not as strange and strange as the strangeness that we already have in the legislation on basic education. More generally, it seems, at least on the basis of this, that the change that has taken place in the context of early childhood education has not been taken into account either. Early childhood education is no longer a service under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, a social service, but has been transferred to the Ministry of Education and Culture, because it has been sought to be developed as part of our educational path and specifically emphasises the importance of pedagogy on the part of early childhood education. However, if you look at the way early childhood education is produced in the field, what is happening in the field, it is more like our social service production at the moment, rather than how basic education and education systems have been regulated so far and how these services are also produced by private operators. It is the environment in which these discussions have taken place and also the environment in which this legislative amendment has been taken forward in line with the Government Programme. So it is intended that, also with regard to this authorisation, early childhood education takes a step in the direction of how, for example, our basic education is regulated and what these general policies are on the part of the education system, the education system. Then, with regard to the issue of monopolies and also the day-care centres, as far as the day-care centres are concerned, I understand that the problem is that it would also require amendments to the university law and to the statutory tasks of universities. We do not have any records in the Government Programme or agreements to open university law in this regard. As far as monopolies are concerned, I would also draw the attention of municipal decision-makers to the fact that we have municipalities where this share of private early childhood education is beginning to be very significant, approaching the 50% threshold. And when it is the case that, ultimately, the municipality always has to ensure that children's subjective entitlement to day care is carried out, then there is a situation in which the bankruptcy of a single operator or the decisions of a company are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u177	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u178	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Let's go to the conversation. There's Congressman Kiljunen, Anneli gone, Congressman Niemi gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u179	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Mr Petelius.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u180	Madam President! Irade fru talman! It has been gratifying to see that in recent years more and more Finnish films have become among internationally considered and awarded films. With the introduction of this renewed Convention on Co-production of Films, an increasing number of Finnish film producers would have a more favourable and better position in the search for funding and partners for their film project. According to the European Audiovisual Observatory, around 1 in 4 films produced in the EU are European co-productions. Thus, a huge number of films are produced every year in Europe, making use of international know-how and funding. The purpose of this agreement is therefore to promote and increase the creation of international co-productions of films. This would in particular benefit countries with smaller film production capacity such as Finland, for example, this minimum share of co-productions in the total budget of the film would be reduced from 10% to 5%. By accepting this agreement, an increasing number of Finnish production companies and film professionals would have greater opportunities to participate in these co-productions. The increase in international co-productions would not only increase the visibility and credibility of Finnish production companies, but would also make it possible to increase Finland's attractiveness and competitiveness as a filming country for international co-production films. In this competition, for example, the Baltic countries have been far ahead of Finland. In the longer term, this would bring local and regional employment to our country, develop regional tourist and accommodation services, and so on — bring foreign money here, in other words — but, above all, it would develop the entire Finnish film industry more widely and would be able to further raise the artistic level of our films. Co-productions have not only the resources to increase production budgets from more sources but also the larger marketing and distribution capacity of the film, thereby increasing the chances of achieving larger audiences and international markets. The film sector, like the rest of the cultural sector, as we know, is suffering from the corona situation for the second year now. The recovery of the sector requires a wide range of and ambitious measures, and one of these actions: [The President knocks ] is to ensure that Finns have competitive and equal opportunities;
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u181	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to Mr Petelius for his excellent speech, which very much already described the benefits of internationalising Finnish film production and also television production for us Finns and Finns, Finnish work and tourism at its best. The updating of this agreement in itself only brings countries to the same level in the European Union. There has been an agreement of this kind so far, but now, as it were, will be in the 2020s. It is true that this will improve our production companies' access to these international productions as well. And why is that important? Well, it is important because it also enables us to produce our own films, our own TV productions of a higher quality. We have long thought that language could be a problem. Well, of course, the challenge is: we have a rather unique language. But now, thanks also to international large distribution companies and streaming services, it has been discovered that, when production is of sufficient quality, manuscript, acting work of sufficient quality, language is no longer the issue of the threshold. The most popular series of a large streaming service is at present from a country whose language is at least challenging to understand in a large part of the earth, but it has been found that when actors are excellent and the steering work is excellent, it does not matter so much. Here too, through these large streaming companies, there is a great chance that the distribution will become globalized, easier and faster, and at its best — as we, the major consumers of films and series, to which I myself belong — will also create an interest in the country in which the story is located or in which it is depicted. And this will increase the opportunities: not only the work-related opportunities that Mr Petelius listed here, but also those related to tourism, when people want to go to the country and culture. Of course, it also attracts other companies: the word travels quite a bit in these circles, and when it is heard that Finns work very well together here, very expert work, and that quality above all is at stake, so others will follow. So this is a lot, a lot of positive effects. I myself have wondered that when I plan my next trip, perhaps I would go to a country where I enjoy a film or a TV series. So there's a lot of dimensions here. Of course, this single updating does not solve all the problems now, but with great joy I have been following the development of Finnish film and TV culture in which still
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u183	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u184	Honorable Madam Speaker! I'll have to thank Mr. Petelius with you. The speech by a fellow Member — this speech and the speaker — was accompanied by a feeling of professionalism in this part of the matter. Indeed, there is a government proposal to the Parliament for the adoption and entry into force of the Council of Europe Convention on the Co-production of Films and its law. With the entry into force of this revised Convention, the Finnish producer will be in a more favourable position to seek partners and funding for its film project in the countries that have ratified the Convention. We must also thank Mr Köntä for his speech here, and you too, Mr Petelius, have highlighted regionalism and, as a result, the effects of tourism. I myself come from a province called Kainuu, where Kainuu Vuokat is currently busy with the international concentration of film productions. There Kajawood, a production company in this kind of messamo, negotiates with big studios even hundreds of millions of euros in budgets and related film projects, and the legislation in question will certainly help these too. The most expensive film made in Finland so far has been Angry Birds, a price tag in the 66 million euro category, but when you look at this country and the big international film companies, we have clean nature in this country, the regions have the capacity to provide large film production companies with accommodation and, above all, we still have the climate of Arctic conditions in this country, in the north and, fortunately, here in the capital region too, i.e. the Arctic, but also snow, and this creates new opportunities and makes film companies bring their production here to Finland in the Nordic countries. We must remember 2017 when the Unknown Soldier was photographed here in Finland. In southern Finland, it was impossible to describe winter scenes when there was no snow, and this is how the Finnish production company moved the descriptions to Kainuu, and then the winter scenes of an unknown soldier could be described. This shows that we also have a lot of opportunities in terms of production and film making in terms of four seasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u185	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u186	Madam President! This is a good government proposal and the adoption of this international agreement is certainly important for Finland. Here above representatives of Petelius, Könttä and Kettunen have spoken very well. Yes, it is true that Finland is a long and fine country, and we have really great four seasons — or can actually say eight seasons, at least in the north — which will then allow us to be a very interesting location also to film films. In this respect, apart from the fact that we are now adopting this agreement on the operation of the sector, I also encourage the government to really reflect on the ways in which this sector's incentive framework will be built and planned in that way for the years to come, so that we are also really competitive against those fiercest competitors in this race. Yes it is so that really before the snow comes, you have to be in a sandbox with toys collected, that everything is going well, and in this sense too, it is important that, when surely after the corona the world opens up and different productions then look for a place, that precisely in this kind of safe country, Finland, which offers a good framework, would be fully competitive. I also encourage the government to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u187	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u188	Mr President! A number of very good, important speeches have already pointed out that, indeed, this proposal and the updating of the agreement are a very worthy measure. Of course, both international and domestic film productions are also very important from a regional point of view, both for employment and for tourism and the landscape image and for many other vital factors. I was also honored to exchange the word with Mr Pettelius that one of the key elements of Finnish film production, perhaps in a way, is that we still have the flair, we also have the silence that enables the production and implementation of films with its own elements. But of course the sector also needs this kind of international cooperation competence, cooperation capacity and certainly future legislative action. President! Yes, there is really great wisdom in promoting the flow of international co-productions to Finland. In part, we may still have such untapped potential, although there are examples of Kainuu, mentioned by Mr Kettunen, where a strong desire for the future goes to make it possible to produce different types of film production, whether domestic or international.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u189	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u190	Mr President! The representative, Mr Petelius, made a truly commendable speech here and gave an expert overview of this government proposal and its importance. In the film industry, we in Finland and Finland have much more to offer — much more than we can even think. This proposal from the government before us on this agreement will, in my view, increase the opportunities for international co-productions. Representative Könttä also made a good speech here and pointed out how fortunately no longer a language, the Finnish language, stands in the way. Fortunately, it is the quality of the work that counts, and that is what we in Finland have to give. This kind of access to international production networks is, of course, first and foremost to export our export products and show them their skills, to export their know-how, to the best possible opportunity, and it is an agreement that has been made, and also in this area, where we have not been so strongly involved in these networks in the first place, we now have the opportunity to do so. And we do have that quality and the skill to give. But then, at the end of the day, I say that many will benefit, not only from these factors and operators, but also from us consumers, and that is a good thing. Thank you to the government for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u191	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u192	Mr President! Excellent speeches have been made here. I would just like to say that in a matter of this kind, such as film production, international cooperation is extremely important and also the competitiveness of European cooperation as a whole. Mr Kettunen spoke of the possibilities of Kainuu and the possibilities of Autto Lapland, and I think they came to Ostrobothnia. All credit to them, but I would like to point out here that Pirkanmaa and Tampere are already very advanced in this area and that Hollywood-level films have already been made. In fact, there is a very good concept, which involves Mediapolis in many ways, and it has the City of Tampere very strongly. One of the priorities of the current mayor's programme in Tampere is precisely this development of film production and wider digital production. There is a significant unit of Yle, clearly the largest outside the capital region, which is involved and cooperates. There are educational institutions, both polytechnic level and college level, university level, all kinds of activities connected to this context, and a lot of private actors in that area. It seems very promising now that the City of Tampere has also brought its own inputs and its own production incentives to a considerable extent that it will become an even more significant industry. Of course, Yle has a long history of series and documents and children's programmes and so on, but this film production, including international production, is becoming an important industry. It is a very big and important thing and a new opportunity for Finland as a whole and also an excellent example that when public and private hands strike, good results will be achieved, because both investments are needed here. These are expensive projects. Without one way or another public involvement, Yle as a key partner, it is difficult to achieve and make, for example, documents or crime shows in the class that can actually achieve international success. This is a concept that I believe will succeed, and it is very good that this is also what the government is proposing here and that we can move forward on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u193	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u194	Thank you, Madam Chairman! I am not going to go into the race for the best order of the provinces — you know, of course, my opinion in it — but to leave it for another debate. This sector is like that, if this is accelerated in this country, it is good enough for all Finland and all the regions, so that in that sense it is not worth being jealous now if one region is doing better and another is doing a little worse. There is a huge growth potential here, just as Mr Satonen well said and, of course, he knows this very well through Yle. But a few words — here came questions from Mr Auto, how more support could be given to this area in Finland. After all, we have production support and various deductions for it if a foreign group comes here to make and produce its own film, but we would have to consider when that competition is so fierce in that world and they are so massive that they are currently at a sufficient level in Finland compared to, for example, competing countries. I believe that the marginal benefit can also be calculated by making a little more tax deductions — in the sense that they are a convenient way of getting them only when they are produced here — so that we can see how far we should go in order to bring these productions to Finland. It is quite true that these productions are very massive. Of course, Finland itself does not have enough money for them alone, but we need a lot of foreign capital and also public aid. I would go to this side of the aid, not so much direct production subsidies, but, for example, these reductions which already exist: what level should they be set to make Finland even more attractive to foreign productions. There is, however, a very good spirit in this Parliament. It seems that all parties in Parliament sign the opportunities in this area for Finland and all provinces, and this is easy to support and encourage, whether in opposition or government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u195	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u196	Mr President! With the name 'Love for the sport', I could not stop using the short speech here, inspired by the good speeches that were used here. It is clear that the film industry is one of our pearls, and incentives for Finland to also be an attractive country to make films, are needed, and we have an excellent framework in all regions. And you know, I must admit that this speech by Mr Satonen also inspires me because I come from that city of Tampere, including the town of Little Kakkonen and the strong city of culture. Mr Satonen well described this wide-ranging activity and the opportunities that the City of Tampere is doing for these issues. I'll sign them in full. And I can't wait to say, Mr President, that when I'm a hard detective fan, too, it was very nice to watch a new series on television, from home, where the detective Koskinen of the German author Seppo Jokinen solves the crimes there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u197	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 30/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u198	President! Now we are going from movies to peat, so I shall briefly present the report by the Committee on Finance on this draft law on peat. In our report, we considered the matter from three points of view, from which experts also gave us their best wishes. We are talking about an increase in the tax-free ceiling for peat and the extension of the scope of duty-free, which is included in this proposal, the so-called floor price mechanism for peat and the obligation to register and report peat users — this is the case for small users. First of all, with regard to this increase in the ceiling on the duty-free use of peat, and the scope of the scope, we note that, as you might expect, there were very conflicting views in the expert consultation. Some saw that this measure is not justified, for example because it is inconsistent and harmful, since it is a tax subsidy for fossil emissions and its duration is too long, according to experts. On the other hand, other experts saw this as a very good, necessary measure, for example in terms of security of supply, and saw that this change in itself would support a controlled transition to the mere use of wood raw material, which, on the other hand, tightens competition for wood raw material when it comes to being used here as well. In this context, our committee notes this record of the government programme. Therefore, the reduction in the energy use of peat must be done in a regional and socially just way and in such a way that it does not jeopardise the security of supply and supply of electricity and heat in Finland. At the same time, the aim is to ensure that material wood is not diverted to incineration. This is what the committee repeats and likewise considers important about the general predictability and consistency of legislation. That would be important and, in principle, changes back and forth should be treated with a reasonable degree of restraint. Well, the second is this floor price mechanism, which we are dealing with here, which experts were also very divided about, if that is what we can say. In fact, most people considered the floor price mechanism unnecessary because experts saw it very unlikely that the price of the allowance would fall below the threshold price and that the floor price mechanism would be activated at all. It was therefore stressed that it would certainly remain a rather theoretical possibility in any case. Some experts also felt that it would only then be necessary to provide for such a procedure if it were actually to happen that, contrary to expectations, the price level of allowances would fall to a very low level for a long time. In this context, these experts concluded that the current level of taxation is sufficient to ensure that the use of peat will be at least halved by 2030 without this mechanism. Well, some then supported the introduction of the mechanism. It was considered to be justified because it is one way of ensuring that emissions from peat use are subject to adequate price control and was considered to be essentially such a coherent signal that society is pursuing the objective of carbon neutrality by 2035 and was considered a necessary precautionary measure in itself. Well, the committee is in favour of this proposal because it will be able to create a back door to halving the use of peat by 2030, which means that we see that this proposal is no harm, and we are therefore in favour of the government's proposal. Finally, in this report we are going to write a little about the feedback given by some of the rapporteurs on this registration and notification obligation, which some experts are therefore critical of, because it also proposes extending this obligation to such so-called small users, i.e. those power plants and heating centres which are now using fuel below the tax limit. The committee does not see any particular need for change here, but goes according to the government's proposal. One reason is that it is important, however, that the tax administration has sufficient effective means of controlling the conditions for this exemption, and at the moment the tax administration has no knowledge of these users. We stress that, first of all, this obligation to register is one-off, it happens once and it is free of charge, and then this obligation to notify it once a year will result in a notification of its use. In relation to other actors, we do not consider this unreasonable for the one, but we must have a fair and consistent procedure for all. We are therefore also in favour of this proposal in this context. We would also stress that this obligation to register does not apply to households and comparable operators when using combustion peat for their own heat production. Then there are objections. The Christian Democrats and the Finns have their own objections here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u199	Congressman Kiljunen, Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u200	Madam President! Just as the section president, Mr Viitanen, said, this proposal was partly contradictory, but this was in line with the government programme in which we aim to halve emissions, and it is now important that the emission reduction target should also be achieved with regard to this proposal. Mr President! I am raising a few points here which I personally feel are very good and important, referring to the debates which have taken place in the section. It is very important and good that the reduction in the energy use of peat is done in a regionally and socially just way and that it does not jeopardise the security of supply and supply of electricity and heat in Finland. At the same time, the objective is also good that no material wood should be diverted to incineration, and this was also stated in this report by the section and the committee. It is also important to maintain that, when talking about the tax-free use of peat, this proposal is based on a proposal from a separate peat working group set up by the government, and thus expertise has been derived from this proposal. Among other things, the task of the working group was to find out how the halving of peat's energy use will be done in a regional and socially just way, and I believe that this will create confidence in the further handling of this difficult issue. And one thing that is also very important for this follow-up process and action is that the committee stresses that the predictability and consistency of this legislation must be an essential part of this, so that then, in various parts of Finland, we can consistently move towards the most environmentally friendly forms of energy and thus support the common goal of Finnish and global climate and environmental issues. And then there is this floor price mechanism, just as the section president said, although this floor price mechanism was seen as theoretical, it is also important to note that this also serves as a back door to the fact that the halving of peat's energy use will take place by 2030, and in that sense there will probably be no harm whatsoever to anyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u201	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u202	Mr President! Government proposal 144/2021 concerns peat. The debate on peat has been taking place in this Chamber for a long, hard time. The end result is that peat production as a business is indeed at risk. Many people have lost huge fortunes simply because the government’s policy has not been in line with supporting livelihoods and getting work and energy to Finland. Mr President! I made 9/2021 February 11th. the current year for the immediate cancellation of the tax increase in peat under the measure initiative and the declaration of peat as a renewable natural resource. I am very grateful that the Committee on Finance, when dealing with this issue, has also taken into account the initiatives on measures, two of which are, therefore, the subject of debate. It's always a good conversation. In my initiative for measures, I mentioned that we do not accept tax increases, whether they concern families or industry, such as fossil fuel taxes. We also appreciate peat and peatland. Consequently, we do not accept tax increases in this sector. Peat is also a security of supply issue for our country. The peat industry is also an important source of employment, for example in Ostrobothnia, Satakunta and, of course, in Finland as a whole. In this context, I would like to point out that tightening the energy tax on peat together with the emissions trading effect has also led to a loss of competitiveness for municipal-owned district heating companies, because additional costs have in many cases shifted to the price of heat. Mr President! Today, the situation is that if the increase in energy peat is reduced or completely stopped in our country, it will also jeopardise the operation of a large number of horticultural and primary farms. This is because the availability of dry peat, for example, is deteriorating substantially. This, in turn, is undermining employment. The availability of dry peat is a major and essential factor for animal welfare and health. It's really big. Antibiotic-free poultry production is entirely dependent on dry peat. In practice, there is no substitute. Growth peat, on the other hand, is a lifeline for greenhouse farmers, for example. We, the Group of the Finnish People's Party, do not accept such a policy, that important, really important things for our country, both in terms of security of supply and then in terms of food production, go their way, so to speak. The Finnish Parliament Group proposes that the tax evasion of peat be cancelled as a whole and at the same time ensure that peat production can continue in our country in the future. For this reason, in my initiative, I wrote: ‘On the basis of the above, we propose that government measures to reverse the increase in the tax on peat and to ensure that,for example, peat is released Peat as a renewable resource would allow us to go to the European Union's tables and negotiate whether it could at some point also be accepted as carbon sinks for wild bogs. Of course, that work must be done in the European Union, but as a tool I think it would be very good for our society. I would hope that everything that can be done for the benefit of Finland will be done in this house. As far as peat is concerned, I regret to say that everything has not been done. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u203	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u204	Mr President! On the previous subject, I guessed that Mr Viitanen is in the same line, but perhaps I was a little surprised that Mr Viitanen is also in very similar line in this matter of peat. It is, of course, positive that even the government has noticed just how bad this distress in the peat sector is. I have to say that my point of view is really between the speeches that have been made. I do think that, in the long run, the amount of energy peat will inevitably be reduced and its role will be mainly in the security of supply area, but that is one thing that I would like to say seriously here that I do not think that any sector should be caught up, especially in the face of political decisions, in the rapid and uncontrolled dismantling of the peat industry. This situation has been quite unreasonable for entrepreneurs in the peat industry. There was also reference to the regional and social impact of Kiljune's speech and, as Mr Peltokangas said, so many have lost their property there, many have lost their job opportunities. The turnover of operators producing machinery and equipment for peat production has completely collapsed. Most of the people who work in this field must have understood that the direction of the peat is down, but the fact that it has gone down so hard has been very hard. This presentation, which is now being made, will slightly lessen but will not improve the big picture. I hope that we will learn from this that we will do whatever is necessary in the fight against climate change, and that we will always have to take into account what is really their regional and social impact, which will have the effect on the people who live from that production, and what the impact will be on those entrepreneurs who have hundreds of thousands of people attached to those equipment and equipment, and what it means for such a geographical area, such a municipality, where much of the industry is living. This must be better managed in the future, because this pace of change has been disproportionate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u205	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u206	Madam President! We have a government proposal here for legislation on excise duty on electricity and certain fuels, and we are talking here about peat. Peat is a God-given energy resource for our people. We should use it wisely and use it as it has been used for decades. Over there in Yle's archives there are videos from many decades ago from when the peat has been raised in southern Ostrobothnia and it has also been brought here to Helsinki and it has probably heated this house as well. Mr President! Now the government is pushing this down, and this is a terrible injustice and stupidity. This makes the property of many entrepreneurs and families the burden, even the burden of debt. There are many young entrepreneurs out there who have made a generation change and acquired land, may have bought a large turf area and paid a few hundred thousand euros for it, and the worst is that the money still owes and even leaves a burden in such a way that if it has been threaded, the haul has not been started, so now we have to go to the water samples for a few years. Now some of these private turf entrepreneurs have raised peat into the lobby, and they have a lot of money on it; hours of work, hours of machinery, fuel. Of course, they have had the freedom to sell it yet, but now it has become such a phenomenon that the partly state-owned company Vapo, the current Neova, now uses its own lobby below the cost of production, and thus entrepreneurs have lost even more of the market for what they have had. Some farmers have bought machines, made tractor purchases in such a way that they have trusted that their tractor can work in the peat bog during the summer seasons when it is not in the field and they can use it to shorten the tractor's loan. Madam President! Here, the Government’s proposal states “Influences on security of supply :Fuel peat domestic fuel, which is why energy use is often considered important for security of supply. The proposed extension of the scope of the tax-free use of peat as a result of a faster reduction in the use and production of peat would contribute to ensuring the availability and position of peat as a fuel for security of supply.’ Today’s Helsingin Sanomat also has a page on this issue, and Minister Lintilaa has been interviewed: “Minister Lintilätetea,that the security of the supply of energy peat will continue to ensure that peat is kept in reserve for natural crisis situations. “ Well, if it's natural in the swamps, it has nothing to do with security of supply. You gotta pick it up and dry it up, and then what if it's over here? Lintilä continues as follows: ‘The challenge forreserv regions is that at the end of peat production the capacity to increase peat is also lost. There is no need to be a very great rational giant that starts to laugh like this — or to cry. I don't know what to say to this. I'm sad to see what's happening in this business. Perhaps now as a final request, Mr President, that representative Mr Kettunen here has praised all these government proposals in recent days.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u209	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 17/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u210	Thank you, Madam President. This government proposal proposes to amend a number of laws to reform the conditions for access to employment services and unemployment benefit. The aim of the reform is to develop the services of jobseekers by offering more personal and individual support for job search and employment at the beginning of the job search. In addition, it is essential that the employment plan imposes a quantitative obligation on unemployed jobseekers to seek employment as a condition for the maintenance of the right to unemployment benefit. At the same time, the periods of unremunerated periods resulting from non-compliance with the obligations of a jobseeker are staggered and reasonable so that the rights and obligations of jobseekers are better balanced. According to the proposal, the reform will strengthen employment by approximately 9500 to 10000 employed persons. Employment impacts are expected to be fully generated from 2025. At the same time, the number of personnel will be increased by approximately 1200 person-years. The committee considers the objectives of the reform to be acceptable and important and supports the adoption of legislative proposals with a few comments and statements which I shall now go through in my speech. President! The job seeker's service process proposed in the presentation consists of an initial interview and an agreed employment plan and job search discussions. The Committee considers it important that the provisions on the service process contain derogations for different categories of jobseekers and that the applicant is more closely supported already in the early stages of the job search process. Like the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee stresses that the implementation of the model must ensure that vulnerable job seekers, such as young people or those with limited work and functional capacity, are not excluded from unemployment benefit because of increased obligations or the complexity of the system. The Committee draws attention to the fact that the service process is structured and well-regulated and leaves little room for appropriate deviations to the Authority, in line with the individual situations of job seekers. However, numerous exceptions make the process complicated for a job seeker. Several experts called for more discretion as to the type of job-seeker's path to be organised according to his needs and the obligation to seek a job. The committee is the first to propose that the government carefully monitor the impact of the chosen regulatory model on the development of employment, the success of the service and the progress of municipal trials, paying particular attention to the effectiveness of detailed regulation and giving the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities an account of the above issues by the end of 2023. If necessary, the Government shall take measures to revise the legislation. President! The committee was seriously concerned about the adequacy of the appropriations for the implementation and implementation of the reform. The need for resources is increased not only by closer encounters between employees, but also by the obligations of implementing legislation and the needs for premises. The Committee stresses that the key to achieving the employment objectives is sufficient resources to assess the need for a strong service and to seek individual solutions. It is also necessary to ensure that sufficient appropriations are made available for the development of information systems, the training of staff, the training of staff and the supervision of work and the organisation of premises. In its second proposal for a statement, the committee calls for the adequacy of the budget of TE Offices and pilot municipalities for the provision of quality services and their proportionate distribution between municipalities and TE Offices to be closely monitored and, where appropriate, additional appropriations will be allocated to the activities in the State Amending Budget or Budget 2020. Mr President! This proposal assumes that, in the absence of a job seeker’s disability, the applicant is subject to an obligation to apply for 1 to 4 job opportunities during the one-month period. According to the Government's proposal, the TE Office or the municipality does not have the option of considering not imposing an obligation but, except in the case provided for in Article 7, the TE Office or the municipality may at its discretion reduce the obligation to one, two or three applications. When considering the obligation and its reduction, the Employment and Economic Development Office or the municipality must take into account the person's work experience, training and other skills, as well as his or her ability to work and his/her professional skills, in proportion to the labour market situation in the region. This is what the committee has intervened in proposing to amend the law so that the obligation to apply for a job can also be left entirely unsolicited if it is precisely for a specific person in a particular region during a given period of time that there is actually no job opportunities to be employed. The Committee considers that such situations are possible, which makes it unreasonable to make access to unemployment benefit subject to a quantitative obligation to seek employment. In addition, the committee amended the law so that, in a situation where the TE Office or the municipality considers that a full job search obligation cannot be imposed, the obligation must be reduced and the reduction can no longer be considered at that stage. As the situation of a job seeker or labour market may change, the obligation to seek a job should always be considered one period at a time. The report stresses that, if there is a situation in which an obligation to work cannot be imposed, the applicant must be offered more intensively services that improve his chances of employment. Mr President! The Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the complexity and lack of clarity of the regulation proposed in the proposal. The committee, in its third proposal for a statement, requires the government to take measures to improve the understanding and predictability of the regulation on employment services and unemployment security and to report to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities by the end of 2023. President! There were two objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u211	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u212	Mr President! So today we're talking about Active Model Two. This has become a lot of e-mails and phone calls that I don't think this is going to go through. It wouldn't be if it were up to the Finns. I will start with a small quote in the Aamulehti on 6 January 2018: ‘The government has a total misunderstanding of unemployed people. The government considers all unemployed people lazy and inaccessible. What is the background to the policy pursued? Distortion of the human image leads to absurdities such as the active model and the forced search.” This quote was from an interview with Antti Rinnetta, then chairman of the SDP. Mr President! A formal interview with all customers does not in any way support individual customer service and unnecessarily deprives us of limited resources. Although the Active Model 2 is called the Nordic model, no other Nordic country has a similar model. In Denmark, experience-based changes have been made and municipalities' self-ordering and customisation of customer processes have been increased, with more competence as a focus and the sustainability of employment. To achieve the rest of the Nordic level, additional resources of around EUR 200 million would be needed. Local government trials have already brought more queues and breaks to the services. The resources deficit and the interview debt are high. So there is already a great deal of congestion and delays in service, and the tasks are not being carried out. Resources must also be increased as customer relationships are prolonged. After the initial interview, there must be an opportunity to tailor the customer's own needs and situation for job search opportunities and meetings. About one third of the periods of unemployment will end within three months, and the use of resources will be a waste of time and time for those who need additional support. The Government's proposal focuses too much on detailed regulation, measurement, quantity and quantity rather than quality and effectiveness. The strict definition of the law and the very detailed definitions do not take into account the individuality and diversity of customer situations and leave the necessary flexibility for customer service staff to operate. Instead of detailed regulation, we should invest in individual services. There is now a risk that the formal fulfilment of formal performance standards will replace the promotion of employment. The impact on employment in this model is estimated to remain modest. The impact of the requirement on employment has been estimated at around 2000 people. In Finland, the deadlines for updating interviews and job search plans have been updated several times in the past and programmes aimed at improving employment have been launched, whose objectives have been partially met due to insufficient resources. This is a problem for those unemployed who lack suitable jobs and employers who submit a job application. This raises a variety of groups of intermissioners. For example, not all jobseekers have enough jobs to apply for every month for a place of residence, education, work experience, occupation, language skills, social or health reasons. Although the law seeks to take some account of these exceptions, it does not mean that in practice all these things can be objectively assessed for each unemployed person. In practice, the model favours those unemployed with good employment prospects, and because they also have more customer service, it marginalises those unemployed who, in principle, have difficulty finding the jobs to be applied for. Mr President! I will continue to do so a lot, but at this stage I would like to raise an objection from the Finns of Peru, so I shall make a proposal, in line with our protest, that Parliament rejects the government's proposal HE167/20211. to 3. to 6. the draft laws and, in other respects, reject the proposal for a second law, with the exception of Articles 1 and 4 to 7 and Article 8(1) of Chapter 2a. At the same time, I make a proposal for a statement, which reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the government prepares a reform of the unemployment security legislation, based on the individual needs of the Mr President! I suggest that the objection of the Finns of Peru is taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u213	Like this. — And then Mr Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u214	Mr President! Indeed, it is difficult to call this a Nordic model when comparability with the Nordic countries is lacking. Mrs Lehto was very appealing to the Danish model, and I myself am appealing to the Danish model in the sense that changes have been made to what has been done. In Denmark, we have now made the original Danish strict line to which this model, which we are debating today, may compare. There are about 250,000 unemployed in Finland according to today’s revision, and if we want a qualitatively good and comprehensive interview with this kind of ‘what’ belongs to the ‘conversation’, we need one worker to interview around 5–6persons on the day around 50–60 persons in two weeks,after which we start from the beginning. This would allow us to calculate the number of hours worked here, so that we can get a proper interview with all these unemployed people. We are all of the opinion that flexibility in this proposal would have been present. I would therefore like to thank the chairman of the committee and the committee as a whole for the critical opinion of the committee, but there is the concern that our group is concerned that this critical opinion, with a few statements, is not enough. If we had taken another round of preparation, a little bureaucracy, formula, and so forth, then we would have obtained an entity that could actually be of some use. We have a sincere concern that we are building a model that is bureaucratic, expensive and rigid and does not achieve what hopes have been produced for that performance. That is why I support Mr Lehdo's protest and his protest as a comparative basis. It would have been terribly nice if we could have achieved a structure that would produce the results that these municipal experiments are trying to bring out, that is, the regional agility that takes into account the specific characteristics of the region but also the specific characteristics of job seekers in a much more flexible way. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u215	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u216	Madam President! I think that any action to strengthen employment and increase employment rates must be taken. The aim of this government proposal is to strengthen employment by an estimated 10,000 people. The reform of employment services has been a strong priority for government parties throughout the Government term. The aim is to develop the services of jobseekers so that in the future there will be more face-to-face personal services, which will then also genuinely support job search and employment. Through the employment plan, the job seeker is subject to a quantitative obligation to seek employment as a condition for the continuation of the right to unemployment benefit. What is important is that the duration of the non-remunerated time limits resulting from possible non-compliances is staggered and made more reasonable in this reform. When the Nordic model of employment services has been criticised as an active model, I would like to say that the committee's reading took away the last reason for this criticism. After the committee consultation, we made a very important change to the government proposal. The obligation to apply for a job may not be imposed in its entirety unless there are job opportunities for the job seeker in which he or she could be employed, given his/her working experience, training and other skills and, of course, his/her ability to work. This includes professional protection. Consequently, there will be no disproportionate situations, for example for long-term unemployed or unemployed people, whose potential commuting would already be disproportionate. This should be remembered by all of us. Mr President! In committee work, we heard a rather ghastly criticism of the design of the proposal and the adequacy of resources. In the case of the unemployed, individual needs and individual situations must be borne in mind. With regard to these problems, we made three statements in committee, whose spirit is very critical, and this has already been mentioned in this Chamber. Their content is linked to a strong monitoring of whether the objectives are successful, whether the quality of service is genuinely focused on, rather than on quantity. In addition, it must be possible to examine the adequacy of the appropriations and, if necessary, to direct more appropriations. The necessary appropriations relate not only to human resources but also to the resources required by the premises and information systems. I would venture to say that strong statements, which then also require clarification until the end of 2023. Mr President! To this end, I will say exactly what I said in Question Time: when employment services are being reformed, as has been quite a reform and will be renewed during this parliamentary term, cooperation between municipalities and TE services must be completely seamless, otherwise these spirits of the law and the objectives set by the law cannot be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u217	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u218	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that the Group supports this proposal. We have a policy of supporting the same things when we are in the government and when we are in the opposition. And this proposal was very advanced at the end of the last parliamentary term, but then the government at that time ran out of courage to take it, because it caused a very strong reaction. This time such a reaction has not come from the Ay alliances, for example, and it is all right that this issue is now moving forward. This does not mean that we are in favour of everything contained in this government proposal, and that is why we have also objected to it. But I would like to stress that in the big picture we will support this and not vote in favour of the rejection that the Finns of Finland have presented here. But we have tabled an amendment to section 6 of the first draft law, which will be voted on here tomorrow. And that is precisely what this formula is about, and I very much agree with what Mrs Lehto has said here and what the majority opinion of the committee, in its critical way, is to do with, even if it does not go that far. I have now been a Member of Parliament for nearly 18 and a half years, and I must say that many times I do not remember that the expert hearing has been as stunning as it has been on this issue. And what did that knockout have to do with? It was precisely the views of those involved, the views of the representatives of the cities that will actually apply this. And they are particularly critical of this initial assessment, for example. As mentioned here by Slunga-Poutsalo, the Danish model is now very heavily invested in that initial survey and then directed to the right path for the job seeker — who needs training, who may need training and who needs something else to work — that he gets his own path because the path of all the unemployed back to work is different. Instead, we are now offering a model that stipulates that after this initial interview there will be five supplementary job interviews in three months for every job seeker, and there is no reason here. We propose to rely on the official and his assessment, and we want the section to be changed so that ‘the number of interviews that he considers necessary’. It is probably important that they are face-to-face, but it goes without saying that, as has already been said here, when many people are employed in the first three months, what is the point of five interviews? Or there are people who go to college or something. So, yes, it should be allowed to use reason. And that is the absolute weakness of this motion that the use of reason is not allowed. Mr President! There's another point. It is a good thing that these resources are increased by EUR 70 million, but it is not enough for us to have enough face-to-face encounters and to invest more in those job seekers who need more help, perhaps rehabilitation-type measures, work placements and so on. And that is why, in our alternative budget, we have proposed an increase of EUR 20 million which would at least contribute to this — it may not be enough, but it is still a significant improvement in relation to what the government has proposed — so that we can actually achieve what has been achieved in Denmark. Finally, on the Danish model, I would like to say that its greatest achievement is that people do not have to be afraid of becoming unemployed, because almost everyone is employed very quickly and unemployment security is high at that early stage. And that's quite an achievement. The labour market will then operate flexibly and people will have a good level of income security. That is what we should strive for.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u219	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u220	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his excellent presentation of the report and also the members of the committee for their excellent contributions. Indeed, the objective of the reform of the employment services is to develop the services of jobseekers, that at the beginning of the job search, more personal and individual support is offered to the jobseeker for job search and thus for employment. In addition, it is essential in this reform that this work plan imposes a quantitative obligation on unemployed jobseekers to seek employment as a condition for the continuation of the right to unemployment benefit. I also agree with many of the members of the committee, as was pointed out in this hearing, that a rather formal model is coming out of this, but yes I want to see a lot of good here, and I would not go along with what the Finns have said, that now someone is completely wrong about the unemployed Finn who is looking for that job. Every Finnish person's starting point is that they want to work. They want to find an opportunity to develop themselves, find its job and thus gain more content in their own lives. Of course, an unemployed job seeker needs to develop his/her skills, and he/she also needs different kinds of services. I do believe that, when the municipalities come to promote and do this employment management, they will also help with these additional services. Well, President, here's your representative. Mr Taimela pointed out that this is not the case at the moment for an active model number two, when the committee also proposes in its report that this job-seeking obligation should not be imposed unless there are job opportunities for the job seeker in which he could find employment, given his work experience, training and other skills and his ability to work and the professional protection which he may have under Section 8 of Chapter 2a of the Act on unemployment security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u221	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u222	Madam President! The Labour Party (SDP), led by the Minister for Labour, is working hard on the Finnish unemployed. The president of the unemployed Central Organisation has stated that job search does not in itself create jobs, so this government proposal has a large number of problems. One key problem is that the model does not take account of the individual situations of the unemployed. For example, an unemployed person who is a customer of enforcement is in a particularly difficult position when the lower limit for the protective part of enforcement is far too low and does not give much encouragement to take up the job. Households' indebtedness has increased and debts are not shortened either by part-time work or by poorly paid full-time work. The purchasing power of Finnish employees with low and middle income is currently weak. High taxation and living costs do not encourage work, and this government proposal does not provide solutions to these problems; instead of running the unemployed, incentives are needed to accept work. The government should withdraw this so-called 'active model number two' and its proposal. The sitting government parties strongly opposed Sipilä's active model, which was much less than the active model 2. Experts have knocked out this line of disciplining the unemployed — so why are the unemployed being severely disciplined? Mr President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists submitted its objection to this government proposal on good grounds. - Thank you. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u223	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u224	Mr President! There has now been a great deal of discussion here about what kind of reforms we are talking about, but also about the fact that we are dealing with some form of active model number two. And when the previous speaker mentioned that the active model of Sipilä's government was better than this, I will now tell you these differences here so that we can see what the difference was between the previous one and why we cannot even talk about this on the same day as the active model that this government overturned. First of all, however, I would like to thank the chairman of our committee for the good groundwork that I can only look at these issues. First of all, I would like to point out that this brings services: 1200 more TE officials who actually come close to a person and help people face to face with exactly what the job seeker needs. Instead, there: In Sipilä’s active model, the unemployed were placed on specially tailored courses, where they then sat and seemingly were eligible for employment after that. The second is these sanctions. This is where the sanctions are halved. In this model, you don't get punished for it if you can't find a job. Instead, if you did not find work for yourself on the active model of Sipilä, then the result was that there was a temper. There's no chance here. Well, with these real meetings already real individuals who talk to each other, it can really help. Instead, we have also had a phase in this employment policy where the unemployed have had to talk to the answering machine. Is that what the Finns in Peru are thinking back about, that the unemployed can talk to the answering machine about how to find employment here? And lastly, this poorly paid job. Thank God it is not a government and it is not a parliament, who decides on wage policy, but the people who actually do the job, whether it is the public sector or the private sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u225	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u226	Madam President! The Government's proposal to the Parliament for legislation on the reform of the employment seeker's service process and certain conditions for obtaining unemployment benefit. Madam President! This is about one centimetre of a bill, and it is, of course, a good thing that this issue is being discussed here and tried to find solutions to it. However, with regard to the draft law, I would like to raise issues to which I myself have drawn attention. Firstly, I do not think that this reform will solve this problem. It can, in some respects, fix it, but it also has a lot of problems. We have a problem in society — we talk about having a problem of encounters — and we do not have vacancies and workers, and that is true. We have about two and a half hundred thousand unemployed at the moment, but part of this problem is that we have people out of work who unfortunately do not want to take up a job. There are, for example, people in enforcement, and this lower limit for the protection of enforcement is so low that they have, as it were, little thrown into the bearings because it seems that it is not worth going to work. Then we have such people who feel that the cost of going to work, the fuel costs are so high that it is not worth accepting. It depends, of course, on the distance and, of course, on the nature of the work. Some people have such a situation that there is no good car, which could take the job, for example, if you have to visit different workplaces or if the work site is sometimes in that direction and sometimes in that direction, and you just don't have a chance to do it. The Minister of Transport pointed out at some point that money would appear in the account for low-income long-distance travellers at some point, but now it is apparently cancelled and that money will not be there. The way that I listened to the speech of the representative just now, it occurred to me whether all the members of the government party were satisfied with this in committee. In some ways, it is a good thing that there has been a critical opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u235	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u236	Mr President! Earlier, when you listened to Mr. Sato, it was as if he had interlinearly commended the government that the present government continued to do so. Sipilä’s active model of taking second goal, that this is how the current government continued along the lines of Sipilä’s government. Mr President! Thus, the active model under discussion in the second is at high risk that, in this complex model, the sanctions for the unemployed, especially the vulnerable, will increase and fall completely from unemployment benefit to income support. There is a risk that, in the case of some job seekers, it will lead to sanctions being avoided and, for example, to unrealistic job applications instead of promoting employment, real employment promotion. Such signs were also found in the impact assessments of the Sipilä Government’s active model. Regardless of their length, there are considerable problems in practical life and economic risk situations. Discontinuations of benefits lead to outward circulation between unemployment and social security, which is not appropriate. It should also be noted that strict unemployment protection legislation and toughness practice have already pushed a significant proportion of young people into long-term income support. It is possible that this model will lead to greater use of income support for others. Funding is not sufficient for the quality of the model to be implemented. That has become quite clear. Staff increases, icts and other costs — it requires much more money than the government has now thought. Financial resources will be increased by 40%, i.e. by EUR 70 million. But it can be compared, for example, with the organisation of the service process, where contacts increase from just under 900,000 to around 2.3 to 2.8 million, i.e. by 150 to 210 per cent. The empirical studies presented in the presentation state that the implementation of the Government’s proposal is not the most effective, efficient and economical way of organising a service in accordance with the Nordic Employment Service Model — i.e. the active model of service of the second. Is it worth building a mechanical system if it is already known in advance that the effects are limited? A more effective outcome will be achieved if they target resources to those customers who really need this service. The obligation to seek a job can lead to job marketing in the public employment services, as there is a fear that there will be too many inappropriate applications. In the future, up to 14 million copies can be sent per year. Regulatory regulation also deprives customer service professionals of the importance of acting in customer service tasks in the management of employment and of creating confidential customer relationships if they do not have the opportunity to build customer service processes on a need-based basis. The change has an impact on the availability of skilled labour in employment services and on the results of the activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u237	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u238	Madam President! In the past, the representative: Mäenpää raised the challenges and long distances of society and then pointed out the lower limit of this protective section of enforcement, arguing that not everyone should take the job. These are unfortunate things, but when we talk about activation and passport, we must remember that man should always be at the heart of politics. Many Finns are applying today for work, many may have been unemployed completely innocent, so to speak, and they want to find the next new job. Well, now this new legislation, which is now under discussion, will create opportunities for people seeking work to find that new job and thus move on in life. It is true, Mr President, that this report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on this issue is critical, and also in expert consultations, but the committee has considered it important that the impact of this chosen regulatory model on the development of employment, the success of services and the progress of municipal experiments are now closely monitored. Parliament should be informed by the end of 2023, and this is the committee's draft statement. This is a good, valuable statement. I would also like to point out to the opposition that it would not be thought in such a way that the unemployed person or the person seeking employment would want to be unemployed. He wants to find a new job, and now we are looking for new opportunities, new paths to find a job, and that is one option.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u239	Congressman Kiljunen, Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u240	Madam President! Thank you for this debate and thank you to the chairman of the committee for this good presentation that was just here. I myself have worked with the unemployed and the long-term unemployed, people who are able to work part-time, and I remember that when negotiations were held with the employment services, the big problem was that there were not enough tools to help these people. I myself have also been working on employment plans for the unemployed, and even then these processes were often left behind by the fact that an employment plan was drawn up, but after that the whole person was not necessarily seen at most at the time when he then applied for income support, because I worked with these people at the social welfare office and made these employment plans together with the employment services. Mr President! We have been talking here just as the unemployed are now being punished. However, we all know that throughout history we have had legislation which requires that unemployment benefit be provided on condition that the person is available to the labour market. If he is offered a job and is unable to receive it, he must justify it so that he does not lose his right to unemployment benefit. This has been a natural part of all of us in this history. There's nothing new about that. When it has been called for this to be an active model number two, it also sounds strange, because there have already been several instances of differences in it, which is why it is not an active model number two: this is a human concept quite different from that of the previous government, which punished a person. If he did not find a job, he was punished for it, even if conditions did not allow him to be employed, and even if he needed the support of the authorities, and if it was not available, he was also punished for it. In other words, this starting point for this whole legislative proposal is quite different from what it was last year. Now the starting point is that a person is being sought together with a person to solve his or her life situation, whether it is about employment or the need for knowledge or other issues. The special thing I liked about this proposal is that we are now investing in this initial process and in this initial interview. In this context, an employment plan will be put in place, and then solutions may be sought through a supplementary job search debate, i.e. people will not be left alone, but will be accompanied by a period of time when a solution will be sought together. Mr President! I'm moving into that toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u241	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u243	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u247	Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u250	Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u252	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u256	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u258	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u260	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the report SiVM 16/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — for the general debate, chairman of the committee, representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u268	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 16/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — For the general debate, Mr Kalmari, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u286	Mr President! This committee's report is unanimous. We heard reasonably briefly only eight parties, as the general idea is that this legislation is good. Which is why I thought — when I noticed that this item is today — that I would come from my office to present this: It is good for the general public to know that both the Ministry and this house are preparing for the greenhouse effect to progress. The Forest Destruction Act should be reviewed in such a way that book printers can be avoided from happening what has happened in Germany or in Canada. We are narrowing down a little further than the area where the transportation of timber must take place more quickly. At the same time, however, we believe that the quantity of cubes that must be carried away will be raised slightly so that we do not have to start driving from there. At the same time, this draft law specifies who is responsible. The definition of change of ownership is clarified so that it belongs to the one who controls the trees. We also resorted to the fight against root roll. There is a situation where urea, which is a very natural substance, is somehow in the teeth of the EU. Its use is only until the end of 22 C.E., and this is a rather worrying issue, for it really prevents the root head. There is, then, such a biological substance as a substance taken from a gray squirrel, but its use is much more difficult. We would like it to be understood in the EU that it is urea, slightly condensed, the same substance that everyone has when they go to the bathroom. So it would be rather unfortunate if this were to become a constraint. It would have a negative impact on the well-being of Finnish forests. This is briefly what we have discussed. I would like to thank the committee and the committee adviser for their good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u287	Like this. — and thank the chairman of the committee as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u288	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. — Minister Henriksson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u289	Mr President! In this very Chamber, we have now signed and the President, and the Chamber is empty, but it is good that we have had time to put this motion on the agenda today. Thank you for that. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Quality ear. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-02-ps-144.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
