ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u1	Just give me a second. — Let's work here so you can put yourself inside. Ladies and gentlemen, there are problems with registration now, but we have, as we know, 15 minutes to register here. Now let's fix the problem so you can sign up. In my opinion, we can start this sitting anyway. - One second. Ladies and gentlemen, I will withdraw what I said a moment ago. We will not be able to move forward on these points, which means that we now have a problem with this machine. We're gonna take a 15-minute break at the beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence, PuvM 4/2021 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. The defence minister, Antti Kaikkonen, will then be given the opportunity to speak for five minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. — Debate, represented by Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u3	Mr President! The report has been well prepared by over a hundred experts heard by the committee. It provides a good basis for the development of defence over the next eight to ten years. President! The report is unanimous and must be given particular importance in this period of time. I thank all the members of the committee for a very constructive and good debate. The parliamentary monitoring group has also made a significant contribution to the building of consensus over the government-opposition structure. I would like to thank Mrs Tuomio for her good work as head of the Parliamentary Observatory. The work of the monitoring group should also be continued during the next parliamentary term. There are grounds for the same monitoring group to prepare all three safety reports. Internal and external security interfaces are increasingly intertwined. Finland’s foreign, security and defence policy line is stable. The basic strategic choices of the Finnish defence solution are defence of the whole country, universal military service and military non-alignment. The committee stresses the importance of a high level of national defence as a basis for our defence. The will to defend the country also plays a key role in maintaining and developing the resilience of society. International defence cooperation is described in our report in much more detail than the previous report. This is what we greet with satisfaction. Similarly, cyber and information security, in particular rapid technological development and consideration of the space dimension, have been well taken into account in the report. Over the last few years, the Defence Forces have expanded significantly. It is very important that human resources are also taken into account in this context and that more posts can be increased as planned during the reporting period. It is important that the adequacy of staff resources is ensured in all its different forms. Finland is situated in an area of strategic importance from the point of view of the major powers, and, unfortunately, in a possible Europe-wide conflict, the northern Europe would form an integrated whole in a military strategy. If security in our neighbourhood or elsewhere in Europe were threatened, Finland as a Member State of the European Union could not exclude itself. Of course, Finland's goal, as a militarily non-aligned country, is to remain outside the conflict, but the question is: what if it does not succeed? The report therefore states that Russia's objective is to continue to be a security structure based on the division of interests in Europe. The use of military force — and threat of it — seems to remain central to Russia’s choice of means. The events in Ukraine show, regrettably in concrete terms, that this assessment is correct and that recourse to force is unfortunately not an option that can be ruled out. Therefore, a coherent and coherent policy is now needed, in moderation, from both the European Union and NATO. Today's discussions with the Heads of State of the United States and Russia in the afternoon will play a crucial role in the de-escalation activities of this crisis. In the report we state unanimously and unequivocally that NATO has a key role to play in European security and that a strong and united NATO is in the interests of Europe and Finland. The foundation of Finland’s foreign, security and defence policy is to maintain our national space and choice under all circumstances — under all circumstances. Maintaining the so-called NATO option is an essential part of Finland's foreign, security and defence policy. Any form of lobbying is unacceptable. In this context, may I quote the President of the Republic: ‘The decision to join is taken between the applicant country and NATO30 and the decision on membership is a matter for the applicant and the Are you saying that more clearly? On behalf of NATO, the same thing has been said by Secretary-General Stoltenberg. Mr President! In the view of the Committee, the Finnish model of overall safety is highlighted in the report for justified reasons. There must be no legal gaps or ambiguities in the interface between cooperation between authorities, as may be the case at present. Thus, for example, the work on updating the Emergency Act is of the utmost importance to our committee. Cyber defence and cybersecurity need more resources and, in particular, operational management and coordination needs to be developed with urgent measures. Of course, security of supply in all forms is vital for Finland. A viable domestic defence industry is a lifeline for even military security of supply. It is also worth noting that the level of civil protection in our country today is, unfortunately, a worrying phenomenon. Mr President! Finland's international defence cooperation is based on the needs of our national defence, of course, and it also creates conditions for the reception and delivery of political and military assistance where necessary. We know that the EU should be a much more credible and effective player globally than the reality today. Close cooperation between NATO, Finland and Sweden is a key part of Finland’s partnership cooperation. In the case of transnational cooperation, important forms of cooperation are, in particular, Nordefco cooperation between the Nordic countries and the multinational arrangements led by Great Britain, France and Germany. Of course, Sweden is Finland's most important bilateral partner in defence policy. We do not prejudge any specific restrictions on the deepening of defence cooperation. Defence cooperation with Norway is also very important to us. The United States is an important and close partner for Finland, as for Europe. Mr President! The Committee considers it important that the plenary sessions should be able to deal with the issues of all three security reports each year. It would also enhance and allow the resources at Parliament level to look to the future where there is a need for national consensus. Current practice does not make too much possible the important social debate that the whole of internal and external security necessarily requires. Therefore, the annual UTP implementation of three different regions — internal, external and defence policy — is of exceptional importance to Parliament. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u4	We shall now proceed to the group speeches. — The tour is started by Mr Kiljunen, Mr Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u5	Madam President! The Government's Defence Report outlines the priorities for Finland's defence capability development for the next decade. It relies on the previously adopted report on foreign and security policy. Our defence is based on a broad concept of security and cooperative security. The Defence Report examines defence more broadly than the traditional land, air and naval tripartite. Technological development has brought new cyber and information security needs. They require Finland to have a more diverse income angle on defence policy issues. We use the term "hybrid threat." It means a broad-based effort, which ultimately requires international cooperation and coordination. Responding to hybrid threats highlights the importance of cooperation between the European Union and Finland in particular. Madam President! President Niinistö of the Republic recently stated that Finland's foreign, security and defence policy is based on maintaining national mobility and choice. Finland’s long-term security policy is based on military non-alignment. This will be complemented by bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation. We have built cooperation between NATO and its countries, for example in training activities and military crisis management. This has been done as a militarily non-aligned country, safeguarding our own defence interests and maintaining our military capabilities through extensive defence procurement. Finland does not allow its territory to be used for hostile purposes against other countries. In particular, we develop our expertise and promote northern security in cooperation with non-militaryly allied Sweden and also Norway. For us, an increasingly important framework for security policy is the European Union, which is currently preparing a strategic compass defining its foreign and security policy. It is based on a debate on the Union's strategic autonomy and deepening defence industry cooperation. This is particularly important for the credibility and effectiveness of the EU's foreign policy. Mr President! Finland’s defence is based on a high will to defend the country and national unity in our key security policy policies. This must also be fostered in the future. The less divisional lines, the less weak points in our society that we break. The recent parliamentary committee report on the development of military service aims to strengthen our defence needs and the equality of citizens. Madam President! In the current decade, the biggest single project in the defence sector is replacing the exiting Hornets with new fighters. We're in this acquisition right here on the lime lines. From the point of view of political decision-making, it is a critical question which of the fighter candidates will be able to fully replace the military capabilities of Hornet in accordance with the Government Programme. [TimoHeinonen : Right! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u6	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u7	Mr President! A large, comprehensive and, above all, impressive defence mix is coming to the finish line. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups and members of the Committee on Defence for their cooperation in this matter — a special thanks to the chairman of the committee. The report is unanimous, indicating that the parties share a common and realistic view of the defence policy situation and needs. I would like to raise some important defence policy solutions from the report: First of all, the development of the conscription system. As the report states, military service and the high will to defend the country are the basis of Finland's defence capability. Effective military service is necessary to defend Finland and the best way to produce sufficient troops for the Defence Forces. Although the military service itself does not need major changes in a common estimate, the structural challenge is to keep the reserve trained sufficiently large as the age groups decline. Among other things, solutions to this challenge have been sought by the parliamentary committee set up in 2020, which is proposing to extend invitations to the entire age group. Another challenge that has not yet been addressed effectively is the number of refresher exercises. The number of trainees trained each year in refresher exercises is well under 20,000. The committee therefore believes that the figure should be increased during the next parliamentary term and that the target should be 25 000 trained annually. The vast and competent reserve is the cornerstone of the defence and there will be no compromises in its training. The staff is the backbone of the Defence Forces. The report states that the ability and ability to function of staff is supported by quality working time and ability management, and by using and developing flexible working methods and working hours. The possibilities for developing the conditions of service and employment of the Defence Forces staff will also be examined within the framework of financial resources. One of the biggest reforms in the report is the development of local forces. This is exactly the way in which, for example, local knowledge and skills of active reservists, such as provincial troops, will be best exploited. Local forces are likely to increase the enthusiasm of the reservists for different tasks, as the development of the troops enables the reservists to make a meaningful career path to different levels of emergency situations and to participate actively in the defence of the country. Challenges to the defence sector also come from the EU, which has long been preparing various lead bans on ammunition. This is what the committee's report lacks in saying that a possible lead regulation must not in any way undermine defence capabilities or training.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u10	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u11	Madam President! The Committee on Defence has published its unanimous report on the defence report. The defence report itself has been prepared in an open parliamentary manner and thanks, of course, to the parliamentary group and to the Minister for Defence. I would also like to thank the entire committee for its unanimous report. The content of the report is of high quality and gives concrete guidelines for Finnish defence for the next ten years. Its implementation ensures that Finland’s defence capability meets the requirements of the circumstances. The aim of our defence policy is to strengthen Finland's international position and to safeguard our national independence and territorial integrity under all circumstances. Mr President! The Finnish defence environment remains tense and difficult to predict. The security situation is particularly affected by the competitive situation between Russia, the United States and China. Even if the threat of war in our neighbourhood or the use of force against us is unlikely, we are still living in tense times. Power policy and the use of armed forces to pursue policy objectives are also current phenomena in Europe. We have recently witnessed this when the situation on the Ukrainian-Russian border has become tense. Events have shown how tensions in European security also move to northern Europe and can quickly turn the situation into a tense one. The maritime routes of the Baltic Sea and the Arctic region and the North Atlantic must therefore be seen as one military strategic entity — and in this, Finland as a whole forms its part, whether we like it or not. That is why we need to understand what is being thought about the safety of our neighbouring regions in different directions. Mr President! In a tense world, the importance of partners has become more important and transparent for Finland. Finland is engaged in international defence cooperation, both multilaterally, in smaller groups of countries and bilaterally. The report clearly indicates what Finland's international cooperation aims to achieve: support for our defence capabilities, preventative capacity and deterrence, and, where necessary, provide and receive military assistance. All of this, including our international training activities, serves Finland’s needs and defence. This must be clear to all of us. Cooperation takes place in accordance with Finland’s national interests. The focus of our defence cooperation is on countries that would be important actors from the Finnish defence point of view in Northern Europe and the Baltic Sea region in a crisis situation. In particular, the United States, Sweden and other Nordic countries, such as Norway, are in a special position for us. Furthermore, it is important for us to develop the defence dimension and safeguard clauses of the European Union. Although the security dimension of the Union develops painfully slowly, it is not a reason to compromise ambition. The world now needs a stronger Europe in many ways, and that is why the toolbox for security and defence policy must also be developed with determination. Just as important is our cooperation with NATO. Although we are not a member of NATO, there is every reason for a close political debate on the development of our operating environment. Of course, it would be even better if we were a member of NATO. The Coalition Party has been in favour of NATO membership since 2006, and this line continues to hold. Mr President! The foundation of our defence is general military service and the reserve system. In all circumstances, Finland must take care of the adequacy of its defence resources. Ultimately, the responsibility for Finland’s defence is always borne by the Finns themselves. Our defence system needs to be developed in such a way that as many willing people as possible have the opportunity to participate in the defence work. The report identifies the challenges of highly changing influences. With technological development and expanding means of influence, the first front of our defence may no longer start from the borders of Finland, but from somewhere else, further away. It must be understood that the line between peace time and state of war is not clear, but today it can be very vague and difficult to understand. That is why, in particular, in preparing for the threats of cyber, space and, above all, horizontal influence, i.e. hybrid influence, and in developing these capabilities, there must be close cooperation with civil society. Mr President! Finland is a country that takes care of its national defence but at the same time is determined to develop its international defence cooperation. An up-to-date and networked defence, together with a wise foreign policy, goes hand in hand and creates the basis for our security. This is a message that we should highlight both nationally and internationally. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u12	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u13	Mr President! Finland celebrated Independence Day yesterday. The blue and white flag flew free throughout the vast Finnish country. Every corner of our country remembered 104-year-old independent Finland. The beginning of the Winter War was 82 years ago in November. Our young nation fought for its independence as a united nation, offering sacrifices, pouring tears and striving for a free people. 105 days later, temporary peace came into force. Finland and we younger generations owe eternal gratitude to the nation's saviors, the men and women of the front, not to mention the hard laborers of the home front. It's a matter of honor to cherish the legacy of veterans and lotteries. We will never forget the sacrifices. Our nation remembers and thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u21	Madam President! Thank you, too, to colleagues and experts and, of course, also to the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, for the excellent way in which this report is directed. It is a very convenient coincidence that we are discussing the report on the defence report the day after the Fourth of July. Independent, free and democratic Finland is a shared success story that deserves to be celebrated and the price that must be borne in mind in due course. An important guarantor of independence and freedom is a successful defence policy and a credible defence. Not everyone respects our social system and values, and they are attacked and questioned both from the outside and from the inside. Last week, we heard the longing for a neighbour to be suppressed and we learned about the preparation of extreme right-wing terror. The Belarusian regime is seeking to undermine the unity and functioning of the European Union, Russia is focusing its power on Ukraine. There are other worrying developments. In fact, Finland’s military defence is part of a broader framework in which society must be protected from wide-ranging influence and multiplicity of threats and understand the clear connection between large and hard security. From this point of view, the Government's defence report meets its purpose well and, together with the report of the Committee on Defence, provides a clear framework for defence policy and guidelines for the maintenance and development of defence. As the committee points out, this report highlights in particular a more accurate description of international cooperation, the complementarity of the Earth, Air and Marine Dimensions with cyber, space and information defence, and the importance of technological development in general. The defence solution for the division of troops will be updated as the troops will only be divided into operational and local forces in the future and local defence will be strengthened. Maintaining preparedness and defence capability in a world of changing threats requires adequate resources. However, the forces of a small country are not sufficient for the impossible, and we must make the most of the limited resources. This requires, among other things, seamless cooperation between the authorities, close partnerships with the private sector and the organisation field, more flexible use of the military forces for preparedness and assistance and cost-effective procurement. The new category B2 service and the steps taken by the Military Commission towards more gender-neutral military service are also justified. The value of international cooperation is also becoming even more important. Aid legislation was recently used for the first time. Although Kabul was, in practice, more about supporting its own authorities, it is clear that the success of such an operation is thanks not only to skilled soldiers but also to the fine-tuned cooperation in international training. Finland has a wide network of close partnerships and the practical capacity to further strengthen cooperation to the extent that we wish to do so politically. These decisions are in the hands of Finland and the partners alone, and they are not dictated from outside. A functioning European defence is in Finland's best interest. It is now largely based on NATO, and it is natural that NATO cooperation will continue to be intense. At EU level, defence is burdened by a protectionist purchasing culture: as the committee points out, better working cooperation and the market would enable the current use of funds to maintain a higher defence capability or, accordingly, to achieve the current defence capability at lower cost. Exports to the defence industry will always have a foreign and security policy dimension. A binding EU-level export policy that respects the Union's values and supports foreign and security policy would therefore be more consistent than necessary. The importance of security of supply has been evoked by the interest-bearing pandemic. Security of supply must be ensured and, at the same time, recognised that technological developments and changes in the economy also change the conditions for security of supply. At the same time, decoupling from fossil energy dependence supports climate policy and energy self-sufficiency. With the HX and Fleet 2020 projects, Finland’s defence expenditure is temporarily leaping. These are well-founded procurements that support Finland’s defence capability for decades. However, when buying iron and software, it must be remembered that the credibility of the defence capability will eventually be created by the group of fighters in the sticks, by the keyboard or by the repetition exercises. A high level of national defence is a prerequisite for a cohesive society. The unanimous opinion of the Committee on Defence is an encouraging reminder that, despite our political differences, we can also work together in this House. From this it is good to continue working together for a safer Finland and the world. [Ilkka Kanerva: Good speech!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u23	Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u24	Mr President! The structure of the defence statement is reasonably clear, and the report has also been written in an exciting way. Of course, compromises were made on the content, and there is scope for interpretation in the formulations. Otherwise, a unanimous report would not have been possible. In its opinion, the Committee on Defence, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, points out that support for international defence cooperation is important for a sufficiently broad public opinion. This requires an open social debate on this issue. Well, this did not happen in connection with the biggest investment in Finnish history, the HX project. With their own secret communication plan, the Defence Forces sought to influence the media, politicians and citizens so that no one would question strategic procurement. In the light of the silence of the debate and the discolored nature of the objective, it was a good success. The time frame for the defense statement is about 10 years. The fighter trade extends 40 years away and binds Finland also in foreign and security policy, not only in defence policy, to the supplier country. In its report, the Committee on Defence agreed with the opinion of the Committee on Finance that the life-cycle costs of the various options in the HX procurement must be realistically assessed so that the limits set by political guidance are not exceeded. In particular, the Committee on Defence stresses that the functioning of the entire defence system requires that the cost of operating and maintaining new multi-functional fighters does not exceed 10% of the annual defence budget. There are a lot of risk factors both in the project itself and in its impact on the defence sector as a whole. It's a very long time. Index changes can only be guessed, as can changes in exchange rates. The prices of defence materials are higher than average, and it costs a lot to renew their weapons systems. Even now, there are serious problems in the Defence Forces with regard to the ability of staff to cope. New personnel are needed for cyber defence, preparedness development and reserve maintenance, among other things. The transition to two collective categories also binds resources. Representatives and ministers of the future will be able to prepare to be approached with a cap in hand and a hand in hand when the money is not enough. Mr President! The Left Alliance believes that we should have adequately equipped ground, sea and air forces as well as well-trained garrisons and reserves. For us, the will to defend the country is exceptionally high. It has been reading for a long time that many other countries do not even get close to them. If citizens feel that their society is worth defending, there is also a will to defend the country. In addition to traditional threats, new ones are also emerging. They need to be prepared economically and informedly. Technology is developing rapidly, and previous perceptions of threats and the image of warfare can change very quickly. The Defence Forces are able to protect their own information networks against attacks, but the situation is already different on the civilian side. For example, there would be one possibility here for those who do not want to perform military service but who want to fulfil their national defence obligations. Mr President! The report and the report highlight environmental and climate issues more strongly than before. The Defence Forces' energy and climate programme will be updated, the objective of carbon neutrality will be promoted and knowledge of the carbon footprint will be increased. I refer to the beginning of my speech: if we critically assess the scale and appropriateness of strategic investments, economic sustainability also in terms of operating and maintenance costs, and the fight against climate change, it is always better. They're all connected. Finally, the report states that the report deals with arms control and disarmament in a limited way. There are grounds for a wider assessment. For example, according to recent information from SIPRI, the Stockholm International Institute for Peace Research, sales of the 100 largest arms companies increased by 1.3 per cent last year, while global economic growth fell by 3.1 per cent, with the largest increase in armaments expenditure in the USA and China. Global threats — poverty, refugees and environmental damage — increase military conflicts in the fight against opportunities and conditions for life. Unfortunately, it has led to the collapse of mediation systems and, on the other hand, to growing distrust and belief in the power of armed solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u25	Congressman Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u26	Mr President! Today, defence policy is different from what it used to be. We understand phenomena differently, and the threats are different. The means available are also different. Today's challenges need to be met more widely.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u27	Mr President! He is humble to come here the day after Independence Day to talk about the state of Finnish defence and the future. Thanks to the work and sacrifices of previous generations, we live in a free country that respects human rights and democracy. They did not ask for a price, but for love for this country and for the people did what was to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u28	Mr President, ärade talman! The defence report and the report are well done — thank you to Mr Kanerva for that. The world is now living the most uncertain time since the Cold War. It is also visible and felt here in Northern Europe and on the Baltic Sea. It is all the more important that Finland’s defence policy line is not a wind quail. As President of the Republic Sauli Niinistö clearly said: If Finland ever applies for NATO membership, it is only Finland's own affair and choice. In the current direction of NATO, the current situation and close cooperation are sufficient for Finland. Finland's choices in defence policy are clear: military non-alignment, intensified cooperation with the EU, military service and defence of the country as a whole. In particular, I would like to emphasise the importance of the will to defend the country. Without a sufficient common will of the entire nation, we will not survive the crises. The Finnish will to defend the country is something that can't be bought anywhere, and can't be taken away from us, which is to keep it and take good care of it. According to a recent study, the will to defend the country is on the rise, which means it's heading in the right direction. Mr President, ärade talman! Threats have changed, and warfare has changed its shape. Recent events on the Polish-Lithuania border can be described as warfare. A similar influx of refugees can come to us and to our eastern border. In that moment, the legislation must be in place and ready for crisis. It'll be too late to find out when the situation's in place. Of course, the interests and security of the nation always take precedence over laws and international agreements when it comes to the truth. Different ways to influence the functioning of society are becoming more and more complex. It cannot be just a task for the Defence Forces; it requires good cooperation between the various authorities and greater tolerance of the people as a whole. The acquisition of the Air Force and the updating of Navy resources are necessary to ensure credible defence, but together they are also a clear message from outside: Finland is serious. In the same way, close cooperation in defence with both Sweden and NATO will also have an impact. There should be no policy on the procurement of fighters, and the decision-makers must listen to the experts, that is, the soldiers. Mr President, ärade talman! Talking about a military threat is not a pleasant subject, but it is extremely necessary in this time. Money can survive in a lot of situations, but not this one. Otherwise we would be NATO members and we would have an army, but it is not the Finnish model. When things are not in order within the country, it is worth drawing the attention of the people to the borders and out. This seems to be the situation in Russia now. Russia's motive to concentrate troops on the eastern border of Ukraine can only be guessed. At least the Nord Stream pipeline at the bottom of the Baltic Sea is part of the package. Russia wants to use it, despite opposition from the United States. Despite the different EU sanctions in Russia, we must hope that cooperation will work better in energy matters than in the rest of the world. It is good to note that NATO and Russia have never been directly opposed to the military situation so far. I hope that this threat can be mitigated in the debate today between Putin and Biden. Mr President, ärade talman! President of the Republic Sauli Niinistö has successfully maintained the dialogue between Russia, the West and Finland. Finland was elected Chairman of the OSCE for 2025, and Niinistö has been talking about organising a summit in Finland 50 years after it was founded. This project must also have the seamless support of the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the government as a whole. Because of the development of Russia, Europe is too divided, and that is why we need to get this meeting in motion. The meeting is a meeting, but it alone will help significantly to establish vital relations, both with the next government and with the next President of the Republic. The will to defend and function in relations both east and west are the cornerstones of Finland's defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u30	Minister Kaikkonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u31	Mr President! In its order, the second Government Defence Report has now been thoroughly discussed in the parliamentary committees. The report by the Committee on Defence is comprehensive and of high quality. I would like to express my thanks for the good work done by the Committee on Defence and the committees that have issued the opinion. A unanimous report is a stylish and patriotic achievement. Thank you, too, for the well-founded group speeches in this Chamber. Thanks are also due to the Monitoring Group. Finland’s defence is best built with consensus. Parliamentary support and sufficient consensus across party boundaries and governing periods are of paramount importance, and the role of the monitoring group is central to this. I share the report's assessment that the participation of the monitoring group in the preparation of the report has proved to be an effective model and that it is necessary to continue this practice during the next parliamentary term. The report by the Committee on Defence agrees with the description of the operating environment presented in the report and confirms the reasons for the Finnish defence solution. The report gives a strong back to the development guidelines contained in the report. Military duty, trained reserve, defence of the country as a whole and a high will to defend the country continue to be the basis of Finnish defence. I think it is important to highlight the development of military service in line with the development guidelines proposed by the Committee. I intend, for my part, to move forward very quickly on the matter of further work and preparation. The report supports the main objectives of the report, which include strengthening cyber defence, reforming local defence and increasing the number of staff of the Defence Forces. The introduction of new operating environments — cyber, information and space — has also been considered appropriate. The report highlights the threat environment that we are approaching in the defence statement as a broad-based influence. The report highlights the growing link between internal and external security and the evolving overall security approach. Cybersecurity and cyber defence as part of it are a timely example of a critical issue for the security of our country, where deeper intersectoral cooperation is needed. The reports have already begun. Mr President! The report's guidelines on cyber defence are strong and necessary. The Committee on Defence considers it necessary that the key actions, including possible legislative projects, be examined as a matter of urgency to improve the public authorities' common picture of the situation in the cyber environment. The Committee also stresses the importance of increasing financial resources and developing cybersecurity management and operating models. In the report we highlight the fact that international defence cooperation strengthens our own defence capability. The report welcomes the fact that defence cooperation has been described in more detail than in the previous report. The report will be carried out systematically and carefully in the field of defence management.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u36	Like this. - And now we're going to start the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and use the V button to ask for the floor. — First floor, Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u40	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u41	Mr President! I, in turn, will start the debate on this HX project, which was referred to in several speeches. In my own speech, I said that it is good to know now that we have the information, what is the ability of these different fighter candidates to fully fill this Hornet fleet. It is important that it also opens a debate on these candidates on these differences in industrial cooperation and also on life-cycle costs. I mean, these numbers are amazing. If 1 euro were 1 millimetre, then this requirement for industrial cooperation, i.e. EUR 3 billion, 30% of the cost of this project, will be 3000 kilometres, and in terms of life-cycle costs it will even be EUR 20 billion, 20,000 kilometres, but we know that some of these machines will cost 30000 kilometres, if not around the globe — that is, EUR 1 million. These are so important that we must be able to compare these fighter candidates also in terms of industrial cooperation and life-cycle costs. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u42	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u43	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. There are many good elements from the Minister that you are putting things forward, and that is how it should be. One of my concerns was this domestic defence industry. At least you did not take a position on that yet. Indeed, Finland only buys about 30% of the domestic population, while the rest of the European Union has as much as 90% domesticity. Since we have had the target of 50% for the long 21st century, is there a chance that some way will now fade up? Of course, this also involves our exports and the authorisation, which will then go more to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' property. Of course, Finland's purchases alone are not enough, it must also include the exports. How do you see it? Is it there?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u44	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u45	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term, the Military Act was amended, inter alia, so that, where necessary in a security environment, the reserve of military personnel may be ordered to perform a refresher exercise immediately without delay by a decision of the President of the Republic. This has been a very necessary change, but legislation still does not allow so-called rapid response training, unlike in Estonia, for example. For example, we have now seen from the Ukrainian border how military tensions can grow very unexpectedly and quickly, and we should also prepare ourselves for such unpleasant scenarios in Finland. How do you, Minister Kaikkonen, see things: could we prepare for this in advance and make sure that our policies are up to date if such a sad situation sometimes requires very rapid action?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u46	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u47	Honorable Madam Speaker! Finland invests in updating the strategic capabilities of defence in a historical way, and this is the way of a strong government that takes care of national defence. The fleet 2020 project will improve the performance of the Navy, and now this HX project will provide the Air Force with significant performance for the long-term. I would like to ask the Minister: how will we also ensure the timely equipment of the Army's operational forces and local forces?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u48	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u49	Madam President! I will continue with what Mr Ronkainen has actually raised about this arms exports and the defence industry. The committee's report showed that in large countries as many as 90% to 95% of purchases are made to their own companies in their own countries. This protectionism, therefore, in practice results in inefficiency and does not contribute to defence cooperation in this area. It also contributes to the fact that the European defence industry is quite dependent, including our own security of supply, on the export of arms, military equipment, to countries with very questionable human rights -track record, if you can say so. And it would have been interesting to hear how the Minister sees whether, for example, in this strategic compass or in other environments, it is possible to have a debate on what it looks like to have a stronger European arms and defence exports policy in a uniform direction, which would also be in the interests of Finland and our own defence industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u50	Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u51	Mr President! With regard to this framework for international cooperation: We have nine bilateral agreements, two trilateral agreements, a NATO host agreement and then cooperation by group of countries. I would like to quote a report in which it has been said in a very frank and frank manner in this respect, referring to these agreements: ‘Although the documents are not legally binding on the parties,there are no inter-country defence commitments,the committee’s assessment shows that thereis a real significant impact onthe way in which Finland,as a non-aligned country, is engaged in international defence cooperation and cooperation with this objective. “ For this reason, these agreements should be subject to a fair political debate on the importance of these agreements in terms of individual agreements and their importance together and their impact on Finland's foreign, security and defence policy position.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u52	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u53	Irade the Talman! Mr Kanerva raised the issue of the situation in Ukraine. We are in a situation where the troops transferred under the guise of the exercise are still in place there — which, of course, means that it was not an exercise at all. The situation in Ukraine has had a great deal to do with this defence report, and it may well be said that the procurement that we are doing now is, in a way, a response to perhaps a new vision of what the security situation in Europe is. The President of the Republic rightly said that the decision on NATO is Finland's own decision, and it is certainly good to remind our neighbours of that. But if we talk about the fact that it is a decision of our own and yet the debate quite often emphasizes that the situation may not have been right now, or perhaps it may have been, or that at some point in the future, then we as driftwood will be given practically the power of decision to others. Then we will not be an active actor in the debate,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u54	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u55	Mr President! In recent years, our eastern neighbour has been actively involved in many of the unrest in Eastern Europe, and the trend does not show signs of slowing down. The NATO option has been maintained here in Finland, i.e. the possibility of applying for membership, if the security policy situation changes so that it becomes a matter of urgency, just as my colleague Mr Adlercreutz has said here, but, in the same breath, it has been stressed in several speeches that a referendum should be held on possible NATO membership. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence: how do you see and assess today's turmoil in cyber and hybrid operations from the point of view of the successful creation of images?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u56	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u57	Mr President! Here, representatives of Adlercreutz and Östman spoke wisely on the issues of the Western Alliance and NATO membership and NATO partnership, and, as has been said here, the coalition has long, of course, left NATO's full membership to strengthen and position Finland. Of course, this kind of process must be done deliberately and on a broad front, and in that sense I also hope for an answer to this question to the Minister of Defence on how we can make sure that NATO option is in our own hands and not as a drifter of the situation. This defence report itself rightly states that demanding international training activities in Finland's neighbourhood and the development of interoperability raise the threshold for military action towards Finland, and I would like to ask the Minister of Defence: how, under the current partnership conditions, do we maximise this type of demanding training activities in Finland's neighbourhood? What steps can we take to show,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u58	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u59	Mr President! Several speakers drew attention to this initiative by President Niinistö on the spirit of Helsinki and also to the fact that Finland has already been elected as the 25 OSCE Presidencies of the year. Now, of course, this process should be used in such a way that the various areas covered by the OSCE or covered by this Helsinki spirit summit are proactive and move forward. The OSCE has also been known to crumble here in the defence sector, i.e. the arms control systems one by one have become less effective, and it would be good for Finland to take the initiative in this sector, whether it concerns border control, the safeguarding of sovereignty of states or the actual arms control arrangements. I would like to ask, on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, whether it would be possible to think about how during this coming five-year period.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u60	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u61	Madam President! Finland is a neutral country, Estonia is a NATO country. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about this FinEst project: What is the reason and reason for this FinEst project? So the idea is that from time to time Estonia as a NATO country controls Finland's airspace, from time to time a neutral country Finland controls Estonia's airspace. What is this message to Russia, for example, as a neutral country with regard to Finland? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u63	At this point, I will give Mr Kaikkonen three minutes, and then we will have more of these replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u64	Mr President! I'll comment on some of these, what I have in time. Representative Kiljunen: These industrial cooperation and maintenance are key criteria for us here, and the project will certainly look at these very carefully. If someone doesn't pass these, then you can't win the race. Representative Ronkainen asked about the role of the Finnish defence industry. It will be taken into account as far as possible, but of course the reality is that Finland does not find its own defence industry and know-how for nearly all defence forces' needs. Exports are also of real importance and can also guarantee their own security of supply. Of course, one important example of a domestic investment is this Fleet 2020 project, where the Navy’s big investment will take place in Finland. As regards Mr Kopra's readiness: A great deal of action has been taken to improve preparedness, particularly during the last parliamentary term, but the work will continue to improve it. It's hard to believe we could be completely surprised today. Congressman Kettunen asked about the military equipment situation. This model, in which the large investments of both the Air Force and the Navy are financed through separate funding, enables us to develop the Army and also to develop local forces and the necessary investments there. Mr Harjanne, in the context of the strategic compass, I believe that this debate you have presented has not been very much debated. I think it might be good to pursue common export practices at EU level, for example, but it will not be easy, because there are different interests there quite clearly. I would say that the Finnish line is not at least the most lax in this respect, but rather we are paying close attention to where export licences are issued. There is, of course, a balance here with this view expressed by Mr Ronkainen — that is the other side. Mr Östman asked about the referendum on NATO membership. This is not a topical question, and that is why I am not going to speculate on it, but if it does, it would certainly be important to take into account the questions and views you have asked. Mr Mykkänen, NATO has clearly expressed its position on enlargement in the last few days and Finland has expressed its position. It is clear in itself, but there is no doubt that the leaders of the great powers will also discuss the subject today. Mr Niemi, the FinEst matter had been dealt with by the committee, and these are quite relevant comments you made. Unfortunately, the time has run out, but let's move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u65	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u66	Madam President! We have had a good Minister for Defence: things have been promoted ahead of the Finnish side — thank you for that. I would like to thank you again for this issue of the rehabilitation money for crisis management veterans and peacekeepers, and I hope that it will continue to be at an adequate level. The credible defence of the country has been taken care of. The HX project ensures our Air Force’s ability to strike, the Navy will be put in place, the ground forces will be strengthened with assault rifles — which hopefully will also be acquired in Finland as Saxons — but adequate personnel and remuneration must also be provided. Then, on these export permits, I will have to give some criticism or criticism. During this government, export licences have tightened and, in fact, one year's tightening line has led to the loss of EUR 700 million in foreign trade. I hope that this will be considered in the government, because we do not buy fighters from the country and say so,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u67	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u68	Thank you, Madam President. After all, Finland has chosen its side, we are not neutral, but we are militarily non-aligned. Finland is part of the West and we have our own obligations in it. In defence policy, Finland has many advantages: firstly, the fact that we are doing it together, secondly, the fact that we are planning it very far, and thirdly, the determination to implement it. This is the presentation now, among other things, of this fleet, of which the HX will soon be decided, and then of the needs of the Army for reform. Now that next year we will have one of the biggest defence budgets of the peace age and clearly one of the most pro-defence governments in terms of, say, invested euros, decisions taken, refresher exercises carried out, a simple question for the Minister: when this line is now very good and we have the so-called Green Left Government as one of the most militaristic governments in the history of Finland, how do we continue to stay on a strong line of investing in the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u69	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u70	Mr President! — Yes, perhaps a ‘patriotic’ term of government ‘militaristic’ is more acceptable. But in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there has been much talk of crisis management this autumn. Crisis management is an important tool for promoting the stability of Finland’s foreign and security and defence policy in the world. Crisis management, as security in general, is widely understood and multidimensionally understood. Soldiers cannot build democracy or the rule of law, but without military crisis management we often cannot provide a safe environment for civilian crisis management, mediation, humanitarian aid or development cooperation. In order to promote stability and peace, we need seamless international cooperation and operating models for the success of coordination and cooperation. In its opinion, the Committee on Foreign Affairs signed the basic guidelines on crisis management objectives, but perhaps I should like to ask again:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u71	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u72	Madam President! As a representative of a small group, I have had the opportunity to be both in the follow-up group to the foreign and security policy report and also in the follow-up group to the defence policy report, both of which have highlighted the importance of our taking account of this wide-ranging security. And there are a lot of challenges that, I would say, the internal security report in a certain way is going to tangle, for example, these cyber and hybrid threats. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister about how perhaps even more could be done to bring this report together. I also think it is important that these reports are separate in themselves, but that they are even better able to take account of the common security concern and the wide-ranging security vision, which, although it is evident from all these points of view, is very much the case. And at the end of the day, I would have asked you about this staff. As far as the military is concerned, we rarely talk about this type of thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u73	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u74	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for his good cooperation on a number of issues. Of course, there are a number of important things here that are close to the heart: it is the financing of crisis management veterans and then also the supply of maintenance and spare parts subject to export licences. Yes, there is a need for consistent action in these areas. The point I would like to ask is that the committee refers in the report to its opinion on the government's annual report, which pointed out that the entry into force of a possible EU lead regulation must not undermine the capacity of reserve agencies and voluntary defence to exercise. Has this been taken into account in the Ministry, and how do you intend to promote this there?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u75	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u76	Madam President! The report strongly includes cyber security, information security, hybrid threats and even space. We have some worrying features: pressure and influence will take place during peace time, the state of war will not necessarily be declared, and all authority will be denied, which has now been seen in Ukraine, for example. The development of legislation is absolutely central. The report says that the updating of the Emergency Act has begun and must take full account of the various hybrid threats. There is also a need to take into account the development needs of legislation and cooperation between authorities in the cyber environment. I'm surprised there's so little intelligence. Am I correct in interpreting the fact that intelligence legislation is in good shape when it is no longer necessary to raise it specifically here? [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u77	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u78	Mr President! It will be advantageous for Finland if the European Union's defence cooperation deepens. The EU must increase its security under the pressure of a growing power race. The EU needs its own military strength and cannot simply lull itself into the military security offered by the United States to its NATO members. Closer cooperation between the EU and NATO is to be welcomed and also natural in view of the fact that 21 of the 27 Member States of the Union are members of NATO. In addition, forces need to be combined to better prepare for cyber and hybrid threats typical of modern warfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u79	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u80	Mr President! There has been talk in this Chamber of taxonomy, that is, the EU's financial criteria, linking it to energy and forests. However, taxonomy can also be important for the defence industry. This seems possible despite the fact that this is a critical part of the security of Finland and Europe. According to the records, the situation is getting worse. The decisions already taken are characterised by a strong simplification whereby the defence industry, at its worst, is unambiguously lumped into unethical sectors. The immediate impact of a negative stamp is the difficulty in accessing funding. In a few EU countries, the funding of some defence companies has been cut by the use of criteria. The situation will be difficult, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which exist in Finland. Mr President! In Finland, the defence industry is part of overall safety. Honored Minister, what should I do about this? [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u81	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u82	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that this report is unanimous. This is a very valuable paper not only for the President of our Republic but also for Minister Kaikkonen, Minister for Defence, the Defence Forces as a whole, and the staff responsible for the security of Finland as a whole. Unanimity is always a resource whose importance is difficult not to overemphasize. It cannot be overemphasized; it is an extremely important issue. The second thing is then this management of Finnish relations. As the fleet and the educational sector are in order, the maintenance of good relations with neighbors will become more and more important in this world. Brave Kekkonen once said that we should keep those friends close and the enemies as far away as possible, and this phrase fits very well at this time. East relations with Russia are very important to us. A confidential dialogue with them is absolutely necessary and will then create opportunities for many other good people. And last but not least, Madam President, when we talk about good cooperation, we must always be in international action.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u83	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u84	Mr President! Last Thursday I had the opportunity to attend the OSCE Foreign Ministers' meeting in Stockholm and listen to what the Russian and US Foreign Ministers said. And I must say, those speeches were very hard. They may also tell us about the tightening climate that we also have in the defence sector. We are talking about Ukraine, especially Russia as a pawn, about what is happening in Belarus, and so on. Finland is still not a member of NATO, but we still need to think about who would then help us in that situation if we were caught in a bad situation. At the meeting, we have assumed that it would be a good idea if this EU solidarity clause, Article 222, were to be used in order to enable the EU country that appeals to it to initiate a coordinated process of assistance at EU level. Minister of Defence, how do you feel about this appeal to the Assembly?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u85	Like this. — According to my calculations, everyone has had at least one speech. I would like to ask again whether Mr Kanerva wishes to speak in response at this stage. If you'd like, please. And then the Minister will answer, and then we will go to the list of speakers. — Mr Kanerva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u86	Mr President! If you look at the European Union, then perhaps in its development and reform the defence sector is the one that is on the scene of the driver, the driver, at the moment. And I must say that in Finland's national debate, in the debate, defence policy has also risen to the centre of focus because of changes in the operating environment, which I believe is a very good defender of the position of Finns, Finland's role in both foreign policy and defence policy. It is therefore important that defence issues are handled with the mentality that I understand currently prevails in Finland. This is a particular merit for the sitting minister and the staff he is running, as well as for the cooperation between foreign policy and defence policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u87	Secretary Kaikkonen, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u88	Mr President! Thank you for your good comments and questions. On this issue of export licences, which Mr Heinonen drew attention to. In particular, these foreign and security policy assessments play a key role in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That too should be taken into account. Mr Könttä pointed out that during this term of government there are strong contributions to the defence of the country. That is true, and it is good this way, but I must say that the foundations were laid for it already during the previous government and parliament and perhaps even the previous government and parliament. This is quite a long curve, and I trust that the next government, whatever it is, will continue along this line. And when you asked me how to ensure that this is continued, I would actually see that, when this report and this report are adopted, it will ensure that this long line is maintained. But certainly every government negotiation must have its own debates on these issues, and I hope that everyone will keep the country’s security high. Congressman Hopsu asked about the Kriha staff. Well, at least it has been done that I have taken some decisions to improve the financial interests of crisis management personnel in this area within two years, and I believe that this has at least improved the situation slightly. These places have been reasonably well completed, at least for the time being, but of course we must continue to look at this as far as possible. Representative Essayah dealt, among other things, with this report process. This has been discussed in committee and discussed in Parliament, and I think that a common view is emerging on how to continue with this. Coping with the staff — it has been taken into account in the Defence Forces and will continue to be addressed. There must be a constant debate here and, for example, through the agreements, we must look for solutions, and of course this line on the increase in staff is very important here, that it goes forward and that it was underlined by the committee as well. Representative Mäenpää asked about this shootout situation in the Reservist Associations. The Ministry of Defence has dealt with this issue in the direction of that EU Chemicals Agency and has highlighted these specific needs of Finland. There's been a lot of work done here. Mr Kiuru asked about intelligence legislation as to whether this legislation was in good shape. Well, that is still quite fresh legislation, and perhaps it is too early to draw the final conclusions from it. As a rule, it is in good shape, but there may still be need for fine-tuning, and Parliament should also continue this assessment. It is perhaps typically the kind of legislation that has to live in time. Congressman Sankelo's point of view is listed. Involvement at EU level in this area is needed, and this influencing work is also under way. Mr Hoskonen underlined the unity of defence and, indeed, in a very fine way, a common vision has been found here in the Chamber and in the Committees. And, as Mr Mustajärvi said, it must have required a bit of reception and compromise, but I appreciate the fact that there has been a willingness to listen to the other side of the hall as a whole in terms of the security of the country. Mr Kauma asked about this issue of solidarity. This is in the process, especially through the work of that strategic compass. There has been a debate on this 42.7 in particular and will be back in the next few months. Finally, since the clock is flashing red and the time is running out, I would like to thank the whole House and, in particular, Mrs Kanerva, who, as chairman of the committee, has done an important job well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u89	We shall now proceed to the list of — Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u90	Mr President! The defence statement is a long document and contains many lofty phrases. Is there a fact or power behind the sentences, that is another question. At present, relations between the major powers are under test and the situation is strained in many places. Finland's geopolitical position includes specific sensitivity factors and our position has not been changed by membership of the European Union, although many people imagine this. The European Union is not a defence or military alliance — fortunately this is the case. References to the report The Treaty of Lisbon's aid clauses do not reflect reality, for at present France is the only country in the EU with significant military power. In a possible crisis situation, it is pointless to expect help from a distant France. The most important thing is that we maintain a credible and sufficiently strong defence, but the starting point must be completely national and realistic. Unfortunately, Finland has joined the EU's ideology in defence matters. For example, Mali, where Finns were to go to help France. When I found out there were Russian special forces in Mali, the project was over. Let me be clear: Finland has nothing to gain from France's own crises in Africa. France uses EU defence and solidarity speech as a smoke screen for its own interests. When Finland needs help in matters such as forests, France and Italy will vote against Finland in the Council. So much for being European. On the contrary, the federal development of the EU is weakening Finland's position, but the EU ideologists do not understand this. The report is expected to paint a negative picture of Russia. It is true that the use of armed force cannot be ruled out, but it is easy to forget that such a situation would be more likely to occur as part of a wider international conflict. For Finland, this geopolitical position would be the best policy of neutrality, as the foreign forces that are close and far agitate against the Finns against Russia are not responsible for the consequences. There are no friends in international politics, only interests. My estimate is that we are trying to maintain the debate on NATO membership, even if by force. If Finland or Sweden joins NATO, it may mean an unnecessary tightening of the situation in Finland and in our neighbouring regions. If necessary, the superpowers will find mutual solutions for Finland without Finland. [Ben Zyskowicz: And over our head!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u93	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u94	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Russia’s Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, said last week in Stockholm: ‘The military coalition scenario is returning to Europe. “ True, but who caused this situation? What country maintains and tightens the tension on the Ukrainian border by concentrating an unprecedented number of troops and arms and almost threatening war in the middle of Europe? Russia. Which country occupied the Crimean Peninsula illegally in violation of all key international agreements? Russia. What country violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its neighbouring country by maintaining war in Eastern Ukraine? Russia. What country is killing individual people with a chemical weapon banned in Europe? Russia. What country supports the Belarusian dictator when he tries to exert pressure on his neighbours and the European Union by ruthlessly exploiting immigrants? Russia. Yes, indeed: Russia, Russia, Russia. The list above could be extended for any length of time. In the light of all this, Lavrov's speeches in Stockholm and other recent Russian appearances are grotesque propaganda. Why does Russia do this? It is difficult to make clear the motives of the Russian leadership, but I personally believe that this is a matter of strengthening its own power. It is appropriate to stir up nationalism and to suggest that people are living under the threat of evil foreign powers threatening the country. Then it may not matter to the people, even though the standard of living does not rise and so-called internal enemies are almost literally strangled to death. How should Finland view this situation? Despite everything I have said, I am in favour of maintaining good political and economic relations with Russia. [Foresdom:Seon Wisdom! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u95	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, Mr Mikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u96	Mr President! It's been 82 years since the Winter War broke out. Here, too, Parliament was set off to the front and given the biggest victim that can be given for the good of the country. The President of the Parliament, Väinö Hakkila, said in his time in Parliament the following obituaries: “Responsible victims for freedom of the fight country. Parliament has also lost Mr Väinö Havas on the battlefield through heroism. In the last election he was elected to a parliament in which he gained great respect from his fellow Members by his directness and uprightness. We deeply regret that his chair is empty today, and it is decorated with our respectable grief by the laurel wreath.” Mr President! Our job is to care for the legacy of Havas and the warring generation and to honor the work of the past generations. We have to take care of credible defenses. This also includes our defence policy report. Thank you to Mr Kaikkonen and to the committee for the unanimous report. Unanimity is a valuable and worthy thing to cherish. Finland is a stable and safe country compared internationally. Independence is not born on its own and it does not stand on its own either. The pillars of Finnish defence are the general military service, a well-trained and regularly trained reserve, defence of the whole country, a high will to defend and national unity. We'll take care of them. The good news this week was that the Finnish will to defend the country has risen since last year. Military duty should be seen as continuous learning, in which young people learn very important things for the future and for life. As is already the case at the University of Vaasa, the military service and the related management training should be regarded as good for future studies. The Parliamentary Committee recently proposed inviting the entire age group to the date of invitation, when both men and women would be informed of national defence and military duty and of the voluntary service of women. It would be necessary for the various authorities to implement, at the invitation event, a point of view on the well-being of young adults in which the mental and other health and life situation of men and women would be reviewed. Those who need support would receive the support they need. They'd keep everything on board. Mr President! Finland is not currently facing an immediate military threat, but situations can change rapidly. Finland needs an army of 280,000 soldiers of the present size to defend our country. Over 95 percent of these wartime troops are reservists. In the future, we will have both operational and local forces to protect our regions. They make new use of the expertise and local knowledge of the reservists. In the years to come, the Defence Forces will need new fighters and other investments as well as more staff, and we will have to take care to keep up with that and keep learning. The past generations wanted to defend Finland. There are still those among us who defended our homes, our homeland, our common values and our country in wars. They saw all this as valuable. Every Finn can be a defender of the earth. This idea and will must be strengthened together. It's worth promoting voluntary national defence. Each of us can build this country, which is worth defending, with our own work and actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u97	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u98	Thank you, Mr President. That was a very good speech from Mr. Kinnuse just now, and, in fact, yesterday, when I looked at the Unknown Soldier with my cohabiting wife, I said to him that if it did happen, I would leave myself. And this sacrifice by representative Havas, which so many Finns made for the country: I have never been too often found to be this big, expensive price that has been paid for independence. Well, with regard to this defence report and the report on it, first of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, for his extremely good cooperation and the spirit of consensus that is being done in this house and in this country for defence policy and, in general, perhaps with a little extension, for foreign policy as well. We have noticed that the world is changing and Finland’s neighbourhood is changing — quite dramatically too. Russia has been mentioned here, which, of course, is of great importance to Finland. We must be realistic, honest, honest, and at the same time, of course, we must make every effort to ensure that history does not repeat itself. Quite the wisdom has been shown by the Finnish government and by previous decision-makers that when the world changed in Europe — Sweden, among other things, made quite a fatal mistake, drove down its own military system and is now paying a heavy price for it and is rebuilding it — not in Finland, but in Finland, with this history of reporting, which is the common course of action of the whole Parliament in terms of defence and defence policy, Finland has, I dare say, been able to make a long-term, sensible defence policy for which one can be and stand very proud. The second point, Mr President, on which I wish to comment, concerns cooperation, defence cooperation within the European Union and cooperation within the European Union. The Afghanistan crisis showed that Finland and Parliament and the political decision-makers in Finland were able to react quite quickly, but the European Union, on the contrary, was not. Since then, speeches have been made that a whole new battle force should be set up. I welcome the fact that the European Union has a common combat force, but the more important thing is that there are one active force than there are several inactive forces. Surely Finland can also take initiative in this, so that we can have a common fighting force and clear rules of play in the European Union, and, of course, if the opportunity and the need for use are to come, it is important who will take care of the payment. The European Union's common export policy on arms exports was also discussed in that debate. I think it would be sensible — when there are one main line of arms exports in the European Union but each country applies them with a little self-interest — for Finland to pursue a slightly more intensive, more integrated arms export policy in the European Union, while Finland is here on arms export permits, perhaps from the furthest point of view, and then there are countries, like France, which may have a slightly more looser policy of its own. I believe that such a midway solution would benefit the Finnish arms industry and Finland very much. I believe that this is one part of this European influence in which Finland could afford to play a greater role. Well, as a final point, Mr President, about his own defence. We've had big acquisitions for both fleet and fighter procurement. The acquisition of the destroyer will soon see a big solution — and I trust the views of the experts and the Defence Forces very strongly — and then we will continue to invest in maintaining the Defence Forces' ability to strike. These must be treated with honor, regardless of the color of the government, regardless of the financial situation. Just as has been said: if one of us has to be in trouble, let it be domestic politics. I am not going to take a stand on how badly that internal policy is at the moment, but we must not compromise on foreign policy. And the guarantee of the independence of a credible foreign policy is that the Defence Forces and Defence
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u99	Thank you. — Representative Bracelet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u100	Mr President! In 1939 the Karelian Kannas fought against a superior enemy. In Terenttila, for example, the enemy had crossed the Taipaleen River on the Fourth of July. Today exactly 82 years ago, on December 7, 1939, the 28th Battalion of Infantry and JR 30's I and II Battalion stopped the enemy's progress. A total of 77 men were lost today by a battalion of JR 30 alone. Under the leadership of the country was the will and ability to communicate to the crowd that positions must be held, knowing what that would mean. That day it meant at least 77 men. In total, more than 26,000 Finns died in the war in winter. Here in Parliament, too, many kinds of debts have been talked about anywhere. We have a debt to the heroes and victims of the Winter War, whose personal knowledge and understanding of the content and meaning of which unfortunately seems to fade from knee to knee and year to year. According to this report, Finland’s defence capability is based on compulsory military service, a high will to defend the country and sufficient national unity. At the heart of the will to defend the country is, on the other hand, the feeling that Finland and the Finnish way of life is worth defending and sufficient national unity. I return to the word “sufficient ” point. During the Winter War, Finland’s material readiness for war was weak. Instead, the will to defend the country, national unity and state leadership were world class. Today we have acquired or acquired world-class material capability. What about will, unity and leadership? Mr President! I have not found a definition of what is a sufficient level of national unity, so I will give it my own definition: It's based on leadership, trust. In defence matters, Finns must be able to rely on their leadership, whatever the government base, to trust that understanding of Finland's territory and security as an inviolable independent republic is shared. The ability, desire or determination of our country's leadership to defend Finland's territory and the security of our citizens must not be left to doubt, not to Finns, nor to external observers or actors — not ifs, buts. Less is not enough. I have full confidence in the will of the Finnish people to defend their country and in the ability of the commander-in-chief to be tough if necessary. I am absolutely convinced that we have a world-class defence force in terms of performance and defence. But do the Government and its members have a credible message that the Finnish way of life is worth defending? And are the Government and its members also prepared to defend Finland against the difficult-to-recognizable broad-based influence, even when it exploits the vulnerabilities of normal society? What about the Government, its members and Prime Minister, in their actions, and their ability to manage and prepare for unexpected crisis situations? Parliament has nothing to say about the Government's defence report, but the Government's own role in Finland's overall security leaves much to think about. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u101	Thank you. — Representative Niemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u102	Mr President! Now, after Independence Day, I hope that we will all reflect on issues that are important factors in Finland's independence for future generations as well. The basic pillars of genuine independence are too easy to forget under the information slide of our era. People often look too far for the factors of national security. The Finnish will to defend the country is the highest in Europe internationally. By supporting justice, our national identity and our commitment to our home, our will to defend remains high. No one wants to defend a country they don't know as their own. An external, distant professional army does not defend the country as genuinely and caringly as an army of its own people. Our own defence forces and military service are important for Finland. Sweden ceased military service in 2010, continuing with the voluntary army, in 2018 about one fifth of the number of persons attending the Finnish military service. After international crises, Finland’s military training system and extensive reserves are considered to be modern in Sweden and around the world, and even our model is envied. It is very important that Finnish military training is meaningful and motivating for the participants. At the same time, if it does well, it is popular education. A military servant becomes independent, learns social skills, gains self-confidence and feels part of our people. The large number of Finnish reservists relative to the population has been amazed internationally. Reservience is Finnish. The Finnish reservists will be regarded as a uniting factor for our people and for the protection of good life throughout their lives. We are dealing with a 61-page defence report that examines the current state of Finnish defence and its maintenance. As a member of the Committee on Defence, I welcome the fact that in the new report military service, voluntary national defence, local defence, the will to defend the country and the reserve come up very well, better than in the previous report. Finland is a non-military country that maintains its own strong and credible national defence capability. The maintenance of defence capability prevents the use of military force against Finland and demonstrates the readiness to respond to crises. Finland is also a large country. The ground forces are required to be mobile, to secure vital maritime connections from the Navy, to prepare the Air Force and air defense for rapid situations. Cyber and information threats are new. Finland continues to be a peace-seeking meeting place for the East and the West, although the EU's commitment to the East partly limits its efforts towards the East. I am pleased that the President A month ago, Niinistö met with President Putin and discussed issues between our countries in person. In the debate, Niinistö highlighted the spirit of the 1975 European Security and Cooperation Conference. The OSCE meeting in Finland significantly calmed the moods of the Cold War of that time. The spirit of Helsinki is still needed. In his time, President Urho Kekkonen described that in matters of war and peace Finland is not neutral but actively on the side of peace building. An internal and external policy that prevents conflicts is the best policy. External and internal security has a common factor: people's cohesion. It will increase the security of both the block and the entire country. For thousands of years history has shown that united and equal peoples are good and safe for their inhabitants. President Kekkonen wrote in his day that ‘the common security and support of our prisoners of national independence ‘and that’s an unwarranted power of peace within the kingdom’. The Reservists are an important part of the independence, security and future of this republican country. We do not want to fight, but we fight for justice, unity of our people and love of neighbor in garrisons, schools and homes. The Reservists are also a channel to improve security of supply. Local people know the critical dots of their territory for decades. Behind my back is Wäinö Aaltonen's work The Future. The child in the mother’s arms is waving at us because we in this Chamber — and the Finns across the country — remember that our decisions here and people’s activities in the provinces are building our future. Finland will remain a safe and good country for its residents if we honestly look the facts in the eye and genuinely blow together on the important issues of our nation, now and in the future. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Defence and, in particular, the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u103	Thank you. — And Mrs Packalén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u104	Mr President! The report as a whole is a worthy whole, with a very successful description of the current situation and threats. The importance of this parliamentary work cannot be underestimated, and for that I would like to thank the parliamentary working party and, in particular, its chairman. However, the picture of the situation in foreign and security policy is not a fact cut into stone, but a constantly living collection of variables. When considered by Clausewitz, the threat is made up of ability and will. This will be influenced mainly by policy, where the most important variables in the region in addition to Finland are the EU, Russia, USA and NATO. An attack or war usually requires a threat, either now or a potential threat in the future, which can lead to the threat being neutralized. Armaments in the Baltic Sea region are a sign of this phenomenon. However, the will can change in an instant if the situation changes. As a result, I will move on to the second part of the threat, the ability. Contrary to will, building capacity is a long-term process in which we have to look further and further into the future. It is great that Finland has also taken care of its defence performance in times when it was not very popular in Europe and many countries pushed their defence capabilities down in the belief that there would be no more wars in Europe. However, I personally find it most difficult to assess the speed of the development of different performances. What does hypersonic missiles mean for the usability of a North-South ship in a crisis? Can ballistic Iskander missiles destroy airports with their ten-metre accuracy? For example, how do long-distance S-400 and S-500 anti-aircrafts affect our air-to-ground capability? And how will drones change the image of the battlefield, and will drones become tactical strategic weapons systems in the future? The list is almost endless and is particularly influenced by the rate of development of computers, artificial intelligence and data fusion. The cost of sensor technology will also accelerate this rate, which will change the battlefield of the future in an unprecedented way. An interesting question is, for example, what kind of machines are modern machines in the 2030s. Are they still pilots, or are they unmanned artificial-intelligent weapons platforms that could make manned machines obsolete in one way or another? These are questions we do not know the answer to. The Defence Forces are forced to reflect on these issues in a very difficult and ever-changing world where no one has a crystal ball or the only real vision. The Defence Report has relied on the estimates of the Defence Forces' best experts in the outlook, and I believe that it has largely succeeded in doing so. In particular, the development of local forces is a very welcome development in the development of national defence to respond to the change in the battlefield to more decentralized and responsive forces. - Thank you. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u105	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u106	Mr President! There is therefore a report from the Committee on Defence on the Government's defence report. The Government's defence statement to Parliament gives the Finnish defence policy guidelines for the maintenance and development of Finland's defence capability. The Defence Statement and its implementation ensure that Finland’s defence capability meets the requirements of the operating environment. It is easy to agree with Mr Ronkainen’s group speech earlier in this Chamber. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, as a member of the Committee on Defence, I would like to thank the other representatives of the committee and the chairman, Mr Kanerva, for their good cooperation across the party lines. The security of the country is a matter for all of us. This report by the Committee on Defence is unanimous and is particularly important and worthy of particular attention. The Defence Statement and its implementation safeguard Finland’s defence capability in a tense and unpredictable environment. It will create the conditions for the maintenance and development of a defence system covering the whole country and taking into account all operational environments, will focus on the human and financial needs and resources required to maintain preparedness, train military forces and develop new capabilities, and will guide the development of international defence cooperation and national legislation. Mr President! Military duty is the basis of Finland's defence solution. The compulsory military system provides a large reserve to enable the defence of the entire country. Of the strength of the Finnish wartime, 95% of the reserve population is in reserve. The report states that the training of the reserve will be enhanced by developing various forms of training, refresher exercises, voluntary exercises by the Defence Forces, voluntary defence training and the expertise of the reserve staff, including the possibility of shooting. I am particularly pleased that the committee refers here to its opinion on the Board's Annual Report 2019. It pointed out that the entry into force of a possible European Union lead regulation must not undermine the capacity and exercise of reserve agencies and voluntary defence. The above entry is important, as voluntary defence is a civic activity in support of Finnish defence. It strengthens the will of Finnish defence and improves the ability of public authorities and citizens to cope in different security situations. Mr President! Finally, I would point out that the Committee on Defence considers that sufficient domestic defence equipment production is absolutely necessary to ensure military security of supply. The Defence Forces' own procurement alone in Finland cannot maintain defence industry competence. This is why it is important to secure export opportunities for domestic defence equipment products and related spare parts, maintenance and guarantee agreements. The export licence policy must therefore be coherent and confidence-building. Mr President! Finally, on this hip, I think it was wonderful that this was unanimous, but I do not think that this consensus was shining out of this Chamber today, but that some of the representatives in the centre wanted to raise their own profile and party on this issue. I have to raise my hat on that Minister Kaikkonen, who pulled the rug under their feet and pointed out that these are long-term projects, which many previous governments have raised, which you are now implementing. - Thank you. [Ilkka Kanerva: Correct point!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u108	Thank you. — Mr Mäkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u109	Mr President! Yesterday we spent Independence Day honoring the veterans of our wars and celebrating our 104-year-old country. It is great that today we are dealing with a defence report, an important document which has received its due consideration in the Committee on Defence. The debate has been broad and good in spirit, and this is important when it comes to defence policy, maintaining preparedness and performance in a demanding and ever-changing environment. The report also inevitably has its own foreign policy dimension. Defence is a very broad and multidimensional concept in our society, and I am pleased that this report shows excellent cross-administrative cooperation. It is also characterized by long-termity. The report will guide the consistent development of Finland's defence until the end of the decade, updating the guidelines to meet today's requirements. Long-term sustainability creates predictability that continues to maintain credibility, stability, overall security and national resilience to crisis. The long-term perspective is also reflected in the fact that the report focuses not only on the development of three traditional defence branches, but on the development of defence capabilities, taking into account rapid technological developments and new threats. In addition to the traditional terrestrial, air and marine dimensions, hybrid influence, cyber and information security and the space dimension have been strongly highlighted. Development measures and adequate resources for these are essential. Mr President! As the report shows, the security situation in Finland and Europe's neighbouring regions is unstable and difficult to predict. The international rule-based system, international law and commonly agreed practices have been called into question. This makes it particularly difficult for small countries. The report identifies the unstable security situation in Finland and the surrounding areas of Europe in a big picture. However, Finland’s long-term security policy line remains and remains. It is based on military non-alignment, general military duty and a high will to defend the country, a skilled reserve, credible capabilities and international defence cooperation. For the first time, the report also identifies the challenges and security threats related to climate change. Finland’s credible national defence capability is maintained both through well-trained foreign and security policy and military performance. However, we still need to strengthen and develop the capacity to respond to wide-ranging influence, together with the various actors. The development of cyber defence requires the adoption of a security mindset in all sectors of government. It also requires the development of exchanges of information, competences and national cooperation structures between authorities. The reform of the intelligence legislation carried out in the last period has already demonstrated its own need. From the point of view of overall security, the preparedness law also urgently requires consideration. That is what the Committee on Defence has strongly stressed. In the report we will also highlight the Defence Forces' adequate resources and support for the well-being of personnel and the importance of the Finnish defence industry for security of supply. Mr President! The defence statement has been prepared closely in the Parliamentary Monitoring Group and, as has been said, there has been a broad consensus among it at all stages of the process. Thank you very much for this. I should also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, for the excellent work he has done. Extensive unity and parliamentary monitoring are also important for the coming periods, not only because of predictability but also because of over-electional resource needs and policies for the development of activities. The commitment of all parties to basic solutions for Finland's defence policy is a prerequisite for ensuring the long-term development of defence capability, regardless of the colour of the respective government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u110	Thank you. — Congressman Sankelo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u111	Mr President! Good luck, Finland! It is a great thing to deal with a politically unanimous defence report. National unity is the living conditions and necessity of an independent country, it has been seen and experienced over centuries and decades. Military alliances sometimes arise in the debate, and now the debate on the subject is re-emerging in Finland. It's a allowed subject. Important bilateral partners for us at the moment are Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. The European Union is also a key security partner for us. Its security dimension is developing, also according to the report, and Finland has a lot of expectations for that. However, Britain's departure from the European Union changed the situation when a strong military political factor made its own decision and remained outside the Union. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Defence — who seems to be the best friend in the Chamber at the moment to talk about these things: What effects do you see with the British solution to EU defence cooperation and its development, and hence also in Finland's security? This joint defence report gives some answers to this issue, but I think it is important that attention be paid to British cooperation in the future. So this is the kind of analysis and the question. - Thank you. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u112	Thank you. — Mr Kanerva, please reply one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Unquestioned and unsolicited question, but all the more relevant because unfortunately, as a result of Brexit, Great Britain is not involved in projects to develop the European defence dimension. This is perhaps one of the most visible and concrete minuses of Brexit. In addition to France, Great Britain is Europe's strongest military policy player, and for Finland, our bilateral and British multilateral cooperation is an exceptionally important cooperation with regard to the so-called GIUK corridor. That GIUK corridor is also linked to the security situation in northern Europe, and without the stability of Britain we will not succeed. Mr Sankelo's question is exceptionally well-founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u114	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u115	Mr President! It is an excellent thing for Finland that the defence policy report was unanimous, and I would like to express my warm thanks to the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, and to the committee as a whole, and, of course, to the working group that led the parliamentary work under the chairmanship of the Judge-in-Office. Unanimity in defence policy and also in foreign policy is a great wealth for this nation, and Finland has been taking this right path for a long time, and there is no reason to deviate from this path any step in any direction. The defence of Finland as a whole is based, first of all, on general military duty. It is the doctrine that we are truly strongly defended as a state, and it needs strong support from this unanimous report and, of course, a strong will for defence in this country. When the people want to defend the country one-sidedly, it is a strong message to the rest of the world. The second thing is that we must have a well-trained reserve, a sufficient number of refresher exercises and skilled personnel in the Defence Forces to provide that training. It is absolutely necessary. Then there is one thing that would be good for other branches of government in this country: the whole country is defended, every square of it. Unfortunately, this strong doctrine is quite forgotten in many areas of society, but I would like to express my warm thanks to the Defence Forces for defending the country as a whole. Let's just say there's regional policy at best. And then the up-to-date equipment. We must have credible tools to handle credible defences, just as we do on all other sites. This current HX project, which will probably be resolved before Christmas, as will be the case, and the strengthening of the equipment of many other types of weapons is extremely important for Finland. In this way, Finland will build itself the best possible insurance for the coming years. These all form the credibility with which Finland will continue to cope in the future and remain an independent state and decide its own affairs. External threats are just as severe on the Finnish borders as on other countries. It is good that during the last parliamentary term a strong and correct intelligence law was created in this country. We now have such tools and a reference framework for Finnish military intelligence and intelligence in general to act that we can genuinely combat in advance, for example, the inquiry into Finland through networks. That law is worth its weight in gold, and I know that it is being used very successfully to ensure the safe lives of Finnish people. For example, for companies today online espionage is a real pain in the ass. And now that we have this intelligence law and the related tools, we will also be better able to combat these external malware, various spywares. For example, the operation of computer networks can disable the electrical system. Everyone knows on this day what dangers it involves if they are able to disable electricity distribution in the country completely. The hybrid effect is also the curse of today's new species. The case of Belarus, Poland and what is happening at the border with Lithuania, for example, are examples of how the world has become multidimensional — using extremely unsporting means against neighbouring countries, with the aim of achieving a certain goal that is pursued by a wide variety of means. Such hybrid warfare methods are unfortunate everyday today, and I strongly believe that many of them are also associated with this kind of online intelligence and other harassment. The world has become very restless about this too. In the midst of all this, Mr President, it is extremely important that Finland retains its security of supply. I just looked online, a moment ago, at the market price for electricity at the moment. That's EUR 977 megawatt hour. By this means, when the price of ordinary electricity is calculated for the ordinary consumer, it goes far beyond the euro, so that it swings, close to EUR 2 is the price of electricity if someone is on stock exchange electricity. It is also a danger to Finnish industry, it is a danger to society as a whole, when the Greens here are about to close down any form of energy. The peat was stopped from this land and, at the same time, destroyed the security of supply in that respect. 3000 megas are currently entering the grid in this country with CHP electricity, which is absolutely necessary for us to be able to sort out these freezing seasons. In July there will be no such threats, but that January will be quite long if there is no electricity and no energy. The same applies to defence policy: the different manufacture of defence equipment in this country must be maintained and wise decisions taken on it. And finally, Mr President: It is important to keep foreign policy in the hands of Kekkonen: keep friends close, enemies far away, and between conflicts of interest between the great powers let us never go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u116	Thank you. — Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u117	Mr President! Finland's defence capability must be safeguarded under all circumstances. This report states that the Finnish defence environment remains tense and difficult to predict. The tension in the operating environment has increased over the last 15 years, particularly in Russia's re-enforced military position, the development of weapons systems and the increased use of cyber warfare and hybrid influence. Among the operations targeted at Russia’s neighbouring countries, the war in Georgia in 2008 followed by the frozen conflict and the events in Ukraine since 2014. From the perspective of Finland’s defence policy, the increased tension in the operating environment and the development of various means of influence mean the need to prepare for different types of security threats, partly new ones. Information systems critical to the functioning of society must be designed in such a way that they are able to cope with a possible cyber attack aimed at disrupting the functioning of a system. We must be prepared for various threats on a very wide scale, and we must also ensure that our traditional defence capability is safeguarded, including through the planned reform of our fighters. Recently, there have been concerns about the border disturbance of Belarus towards Poland, Lithuania and Latvia by means of migrants and the military activity of Russia in the vicinity of the Ukrainian border. Of course, pressure from immigrants is a perfectly realistic threat also at the eastern border of Finland, and that must be provided for. Mr President! It is clear from this report that the Defence Forces are changing the military mass structure since 2025 by abolishing the regional forces. In this case, the crew and equipment of the regional forces will be transferred to local forces and operational forces. Local defence will be developed across the country as a whole of military capabilities, which will also prevent and combat horizontal engagement. Local troops are used to establish troops, combat missions, protect targets and support other authorities and society. The reform is sound and justified. It strengthens the performance of the Army and clarifies the division of tasks. The division of tasks between regional and local forces has been mixed, but the reform clarifies the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u118	Thank you. — Ledamot Adlercreutz, gone. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u119	Mr President! The defence statement is an important document as it enables long-term planning and development, which covers the ten-year period. There is every reason to continue with the report. The Parliamentary Monitoring Group and the in-depth parliamentary process enable the development of Finland's defence to take an over-election perspective. The organisation of Finnish defence is not a policy of wind quail. Although the political environment and the situation are changing, defence cannot be swayed by the economic cycle, but must always maintain a stable course. The early warning period for crises has been reduced and the threshold for the use of force has decreased. Finland is not threatened by an immediate military crisis, but the wise prepares for everything — including situations where the barriers to war and peace are blurred. The Finnish security environment has remained tense and unpredictable. The likelihood of cyber and hybrid threats has increased and the threat scenarios have become more diverse. President! The strategic importance of neighbouring regions has increased. Northern Europe constitutes a military strategic entity with the Baltic Sea, the Arctic region and the North Atlantic maritime links. Changes in the operating environment require Finland’s defence to be able to act quickly, to work well together with the authorities and to cooperate closely internationally and to exchange information. The basic pillars of Finnish defence are the military service of its time, a well-trained and regularly practiced reserve, defence of the whole country and a high will to defend the country. The defence of Finland rests on these. Our policy has been cost-effective and has been tested and protected as an independent nation in history. The training of the Reserve will be enhanced by developing various exercises: refresher exercises, voluntary exercises by the Defence Forces, voluntary defence training and the expertise of the reserve personnel. In recent years, many new obligations have been imposed on the Defence Forces. New technologies, the development of cyber, space and information capabilities and the implementation of military intelligence legislation require an increase in the number of Defence Forces personnel. Even in challenging economic circumstances, it must be possible to increase the number of staff in the manner indicated in the report. The aim is to increase the number of staff by 500 person-years gradually by the end of the 2020s. President! The Centre thanks the Defence Forces staff for their demanding work on the security of our country. Every garrison, reservist and member of the staff is doing valuable work for the future of our country. With a smart, peace and stability-building foreign and security policy and long-term development of defence capabilities, we guarantee the independence, security and well-being of our country. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u120	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u121	Mr President! The credible defence of the country is an honour, and a unanimous defence report on this Chamber is a clear indication of that. I want to be very grateful for that. I did not make my debut, that is, this may remain my own personal reflection, and I do not expect to receive an answer from the Minister of Defence right now, but I did, however, dwell on this time of world development and, in particular, on how Finland and Europe have been very much left behind in digital technological competition in the United States and China. An example of this is the platform economy, where the major players are more than 90% from somewhere other than Europe. This, of course, challenges us in many ways in terms of security. Data is power today. Well, now that we are moving towards ever more accelerated development of AI, it is quite clear that new weapons and new warfare will grow and challenge Finland very strongly. Unfortunately, in this competition we have already received messages from the United States that China is now taking a lead, and, of course, Europe is already in a very challenging position in principle — if not otherwise, we are forced to ensure that mistakes are not made by the fact that we are regulating ourselves out in such a race. I was actually wondering what the countries with which Finland should cooperate even stronger in this context were. The Nordic countries — and it is quite obvious that the technologically advanced Nordic countries — are certainly the link to which we must invest, and the United States is involved. There is a small challenge here, if we look at the whole of Europe and the strategic compass of the EU, whether it is where Finland and the whole of Europe get the foresight we need. The concern is, of course, that, as we move increasingly towards the arms and warfare of new technologies, the role of non-state actors will increase, and it will, in many ways, challenge our security in the future. This is actually my own reflection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u122	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u123	Mr President! Instead, I followed the stage of debatability, I also participated in it myself, and a little unexpectedly there was a ‘untimely’ ‘Nato-membership’ debate — this word was used by the Minister in replying to this issue. Mr Kakkonen said that this is certainly not a topical issue. However, some parties raised this theme. I think it should be said, Mr President, that we all agree in this Chamber that considering or considering or deciding on NATO membership is obviously a matter for us Finns. No one else can take care of it, and we ourselves will take care of it and that decision will also be made. This is a foregone conclusion if this foregoneness was so much needed to be dealt with. It is equally obvious that Finland's actions in the international environment aim to strengthen stability, trust and cooperation in all ways. This is a self-evident approach. The President of the Republic has also pointed to this many times, which is also self-evident. That is why we have this initiative, which was also referred to by the Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva. We have given birth to this idea of the ‘Helsinki Spirit’ and we are going to lead the Etyj organisation in2025,after 50years sincetheEtyk conferencein In this respect, Finland continues to be willing to help create cooperative security and trust between countries. This is particularly relevant when it comes to relations with major powers. Finland has a strong interest both in offering a platform and in supporting the fact that major powers can find each other through it, whether we talk about non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or cooperation assets in general, so that they can find each other. Mauno Koivisto warned many times about Finland's own position that the gloomy figures in our history have been that Finland has, in a way, been caught up in other wars and, at worst, in the front line. Of course, this is also a great interest when we reflect on this NATO membership, that we do not have a genuine interest in the confrontation of the superpowers, we do not really have a Finnish security interest in it. That is why this issue of building cooperative security is so fundamental to us. This is also the background to our unanimous approach to security policy, and that is why I am surprised that we are having this strange debate here today too, that we are not upholding this consensus, which is also clearly reflected in this report. When Mrs Kausto, in her own speech, went on to reflect on these partnerships around the world, you said quite rightly that partnership is most natural. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u124	Your representative's bristleman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u125	Mr President! I will continue to do so in relation to Mr Kiljunen’s part of the speech — good points. Well, I think that NATO, which is a very central defence solution from a European point of view, is our close, close partner, so that the debate on the relationship with NATO, its nature, is always topical and the reflection on membership is part of that debate. In other words, I find it extraordinary that this debate should in principle be limited to the fact that it is not timely — yes, that our relationship with NATO is, in my view, always. But I would like to raise another point with regard to this defence report and the report, and this is the flexible use of military forces, including the reservists, as part of national defence in various situations. This is something that rises in the defence report, and it is something that is now emerging in this report by the Committee on Defence and then also in the Military Committee. And this has to do with the fact that, when you think of the official assistance provided by the Defence Forces, it is clear that, in a normal situation, it is official assistance from one authority to another, and it has a rather limited role for the military, and that is quite justified, but when you think of the situation — which I hope will never come but could be — that our country is subjected to a broad, long-term influence, in which our security is challenged in many different ways, it may be a somewhat different situation. It should ensure that the armed forces of our armed forces, a large part of which are reservists, can be used in a useful and best way as part of local defence in situations of this kind. I think it is a good thing that both the report, the report and the military committee have raised the need to look at practices and, possibly, legislation in this regard, and I consider this to be important in itself. It is essential that we have a good level of legislation in relation to all kinds of security situations and that we can use the skills we have, not only for professional soldiers, but also, of course, for those who have a different legal status, and also for those who are armed and trained for a particular task, so that it can be used flexibly. I would also like to point out that I consider these comments, which are indeed raised in all these three documents, to be extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u126	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u127	Mr President! Finland’s defence policy is not prone to cyclical fluctuations. The basic strategic choices of the Finnish defence solution are defence of the whole country, universal military service and military non-alignment — military non-alignment, representative Zyskowicz. General military service is a central part of Finland's defence solution. General military duty has strong and broad support in Finnish society. The importance of the Reserve in the wartime forces is crucial, as about 95 percent of the wartime forces are reservers. As far as economic policy is concerned, even though this political environment and setting-up are changing, defence cannot be swayed by the economic cycle, but must be maintained, as is the case here with the representative. The stone island was a worthy highlighter of its stable course. In his own speech, Mr Zyskowicz made quite a number of points about Russia. Now, last month, it was news about what the Russians think of us. Well, almost nothing but good, as the survey commissioned by the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Russia shows: more than two out of three Russians, 68 per cent, say that Finland is positive and only 5 per cent negative about this study. And the popularity is growing, the better the Finns get to know and know us: in Moscow, 79 per cent of Finland is already thinking positively, and in St.Petersburg, near the Finnish border, where there are more contacts with Finland, the number is increasing, up to 89 per cent. Congressman Zyskowicz, you brought up what we teach at school. Well, I would like to see that diplomacy and its familiarity and cooperation across the border between Finland and Russia be taught and promoted. Of course, the corona has now made sure that the eastern border is closed and that this interaction cannot be achieved in this time period. Yes, in this debate, I would remind you that we must make more friendship and partnership with the eastern neighbour than confrontation, and we all know that when this NATO card is flashed, it will not at least promote that partnership with the east.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u128	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u129	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kettunen, for the floor. Of course, I too think it is an excellent thing that the Russians think well of Finland and that Finns think well of Finland. And why not, Finland is the best country in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u132	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u133	Mr President! Together with Mr Zyskowicz, we have a division of labour here, that Mr Zyskowicz raised these facts of history and I myself will now try to describe how we are developing compulsory military service in the way that we have tried to act in our region in the past decades, as a force for stability. Indeed, there have been very good speeches in today's debate and, of course, Mr Zyskowicz's speech above was certainly the best way out of this debate, at least so far. I am not going to repeat what has been said here, but I would like to express my strong support for the idea of defending the country as a whole, a general military duty and a large reserve to maintain the credibility of defence and the will to defend the country. Three aspects which I think are perhaps too little discussed in this debate — and perhaps they will give rise to even more debate on this really important and more than on the date of the subject: The first aspect is, in my view, that increasing the level of military service should be seen as an even stronger common goal for society as a whole. I think that the degree of military service is perhaps the best indicator of what is the state of our welfare society. If we think of those young people who have enjoyed the services of the maternity clinic, the services of the child health clinic, the various family services, early childhood education, the best comprehensive school in the world and secondary education, and if the young person who is invited has gone through all these different stages of the welfare society and has grown up to be a youth is in such a state of mental or physical failure to perform the service, then someone in society has really gone wrong. And in this sense, I believe that this should be the common goal of the whole political field, of all parties, that we should build Finnish society so that everyone can perform the service, and that everyone wants to do it. When these things are in order in society, this is certainly a country for which we also want to be on behalf through military service to do the future work with which we will continue to build Finland as the best society in the world. Mr President! Another aspect: I hope that, when we get to the point where all those who are invited and, hopefully, all those who are growing in the future, including volunteers, perform the service, we will not only have a good military reserve, but also a social resource that will enable these re-engagementers to face up to and exchange ideas about what they are doing in civilian life. Then we in this society will have the kind of encounters that in practice will also lead to the benefits of our economy. I myself can tell many practical examples of this from my own career in the reserve, how those young people who served in the same unit, when they get to meet each other during the refresher exercises, will also be able to create such ideas in the administrative fields and in the new ideas that cross the boundaries of different faculties. And I know that there has also been such economic added value, which, of course, is of paramount importance for the overall defence of the country in that Finland is a successful society and we can afford to take care of our national economy as well. Mr President! Is it true that this is a five-minute deadline?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u134	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, Mr Jari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u135	Mr President! Wide-ranging, long-term influence — this has been going on since 2005, at the very least. Finnish media has been a watchdog of power, but it has also apparently been a watchdog of Finnish freedom. In 2011 it has for the first time announced Russian land ownership; in 2015 it continued, in 2018 it continued, and now we know the latest cases. There's the Pearl of Airisto, there's that and there's this. A friendly neighbor is only friendly when it does not use hidden communications and threats and does not test the integrity of our borders by hybrid effect, as happened in 2016. I'm sure we all like the Russians. I too have many friends there, but I do not like Russian foreign policy, because it is oppressing the smaller ones. This defence report is extremely good and it is very good that it is unanimous. However, we cannot and must not kill the debate on the future of Finland's defence. I am not going to talk about NATO and non-alignment, but I say that when we already have this hybrid influence in this country, whether we want it or not, we must be able to influence it, and we sleep very long and calmly always have a rosary dream. It was only just over a year ago that a law was passed restricting the acquisition of land outside the EU, and yet this land acquisition still succeeds with the use of so-called golden passports. Today's defence requires more and more cooperation between different administrative sectors. I do not think it makes sense for these land transactions to be subject to ex post controls — they should be subject to real-time control. When you look at the map of the landowners of the footmen of the east neighbor, you are likely to have hair up. They are in the vicinity of the grids, they are in the vicinity of strategic targets, they are in places that can be very influenced. And unfortunately, this last example of the inland archipelago is something that you would never wish to see again in Finland. I wish we could work together better with the authorities. Of course, these authorities also include the municipal officials and those who decide on building permits. In this way we could avoid these unfortunate things. I wish Finland safe Independence Days in the future. Now we have been allowed to spend them here, but we still do not have to believe everything we are fed from that bigger neighbour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u136	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u137	Mr President! It is absolutely necessary that Finland should, with a little humor, stubbornly maintain its own defence and its own ability to act constantly without looking around. Relations are handled with neighbours, of course, and we are also active internationally in various UN peacekeeping operations, among other things. It gives us the international appreciation we need. The UN itself is an important organisation for us, as well as the European Union as a partner, and we ourselves are a strong part of it, but there too we must not agree to everything that is offered there. It is tragic to follow this EU action today. I say that the European Union is about to become a danger to itself. It is going to such areas which no longer belong to its own treaty or to the accession treaties of the Member States. This will certainly break up all this important cooperation between the nations of Europe, and that is what our neighbours want who will benefit from this confusion. This should now be understood in the Commission and in the group of Mrs von der Leyen that this cannot continue. For example, this confusion of debts, solidarity that does not exist, and then these new taxonomies, and all of them, which are aimed only at controlling themselves, with the aim of gaining control of the federal state, are a dangerous matter for Finland's defence and for Finland's independence. The EU, which was and was made a good trade union and cooperation organisation in which independent nations can operate freely and support each other, was an excellent idea. Robert Schuman’s speech, written by Jean Monnet of the Monnet family, is one of the important foundation stones that should be respected. But now this federal development has taken a crazy shot, and it will cause a great deal of economic damage to Finland, and if reason does not come to an end, then it will be other damage in the future. In his own speech, Mr Kanerva, the Chairman of the Committee on Defence, also mentioned this issue of civil protection. That's the truth about this country. It's in its infancy. It is sad to note that if the crisis is to come at times, as in its world it is customary to come at times, then our preparation for it is in a rather bad state at the moment. Some of the speeches here mentioned, among other things, the manufacture of defence equipment and the manufacture of defence equipment in this country, that it should not create such harmful competition chains, that we look at our own poles and take offers only from our own companies, but of course it must be so. Does a congressman imagine that, in the face of a crisis, we can continue to be confident that we can at least ask for an offer from a country? In times of crisis, the goods do not travel — yes, that much is held by every Member of Parliament
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u138	Thank you. — Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u140	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, Mr Jari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u142	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u144	Thank you. — Congressman Kausto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u148	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u162	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 17/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — The general debate, Mr Kalmari, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u179	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u198	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Virta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u209	The 28th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Virta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-07-ps-146.u306	Mr President! In Finland, we would not be able to do without entrepreneurship, not without those who have the courage to go ahead with their own ideas, ideas and skills, even though we know — and I am sure many of them know — what the risks of entrepreneurship are. The corona time at the latest has made it visible how poor social protection for entrepreneurs in our country is still. We must therefore actively seek ways of encouraging entrepreneurship and removing obstacles to entrepreneurship and business growth. At the same time, however, we need to consider how, as a society, we can be supportive in the moment when the path of entrepreneurship threatens to break or break for reasons beyond our own control. However, it is only with the growth of companies that we create a stronger basis for our economy, and in order to achieve growth we must look at companies of all sizes and types. This government proposal on the rekrystuki test, which is under discussion, is intended to help to facilitate the position of small enterprises. For many entrepreneurs, the risk of hiring an employee and the related concerns — of course, the lack of skilled labour at the moment — can be the main obstacle to growth. We therefore need ways of lowering the threshold for hiring the first employee and thus promoting the creation of new employer companies. This will enable us to support business growth and employment. Through the recruitment test, we will receive valuable information on whether the aid will have the effects mentioned above and how entrepreneurs can best be supported. In the previous sole entrepreneur experiment, the conditions attached to the employment relationship required to obtain the aid were thought to have been one of the possible reasons why the utilisation rate of the aid was rather low. That is why it is great that the government's aim has been to make this rekry aid experiment as easy as possible from an administrative point of view. Setting conditions for employment relations would increase the administrative work of both companies and KEHA centres and would therefore not be acceptable.
