ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 4/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u2	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to all the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy who have worked so quickly here. This regulation concerns restrictions on restaurants, and this is partly about continuing to impose restrictions on the operation of restaurants in the past. However, this is different from the previous one, since the introduction of restrictive measures is now linked to the indicators on the spread of infections and the state of health capacity, and is the result of a decision as to whether each region is in the initial or accelerated phase. Therefore, restrictions will only be introduced in areas of spread and acceleration, but then, when they are introduced, it will be an arbitrary closure itself. Again, it has been necessary to assess the proportionality of these restrictions in situations where these new variants have resulted in such a level jump in the spread of this virus. So while this is largely about the same type of regulation as last spring, it is now being given in a different operating environment. Of course, we also know that the risk of infection in the outdoors is lower than in the indoors, but on the other hand these new virus variants are more feisty to catch, and that is why we must be aware of the thought that these infections may appear unexpectedly even in areas where they have been few in the past. This tragic situation is also characterised by the fact that these long-standing exceptional circumstances have already consumed the financial reserves and buffers of both companies and workers and have reduced the resilience to defeat and the chances of taking on new external shocks. We have also had to discuss whether staff restaurants are subject to this restriction. In this proposal they have been left out, and these are what we weighed. There was also the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered this and stated that there are fundamental rights underlying this, but this maintenance of the functioning of the health system during an epidemic is a very strong criterion on the basis of which such legislation can be proposed and this regulation can be implemented in the normal legislative order. Our report contains a rather wide range of reflections on all these issues, and we are simply saying that this too is, of course, a temporary blocking measure, and it has now been considered necessary in any case. In fact, there has been no disagreement in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on this basic basis, although this report also contains differing opinions on both the paragraphs and the statements. We consider these targeted restrictive measures necessary and this proposed regulation necessary. At the same time, in our statements, we will look back, knowing all these problems and the difficult choices that need to be made here, even after this limitation period. There are statements here that support instruments for restaurants must cover the various players in the catering industry in a fair way and that future legislation will take account of the different risk profiles of restaurants and restaurants in terms of the spread of viral infections, and, thirdly, we are calling on the Government to call for future legislation, after this three-week closure period, to consider the possibility of restricting these regional areas of application to a more subtle extent than the regional level. Here, Mr President, is the essence of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u3	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! Mr Vartiainen, the chairman of the committee, presented the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and in a few moments, Mr Pia Kauma, the chairman of the committee's committee, will present our objections. We have some comments on this whole as to what the Coalition Party would have done in another way. After all, the government parties make a few statements in this report. I think they are all right, but I did wonder a little bit about these same things, my fellow Members, that we spoke last spring. Again, similar legislation is being adopted, and the debates that took place in this Chamber are not being taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen of the centre, you have made strong speeches in this Chamber, in which you have pointed out that rural municipalities and rural cafes and gas stations and everything else must be taken into account and dealt with differently from Helsinki nightclubs, but this is not the way to do it, my dear government. Even when this motion was brought here in the referral debate, strong speeches were made from the centre. Perhaps they were quotes directed at the country of Finland, when they so strongly highlighted that regional assessment. Well, now these ponies or statements of the government parties in this report raise these same concerns. It is stated here that the various actors in the catering industry should be taken into account in a balanced way, and then, in the future – i.e. moving forward – different risk profiles for the spread of viral infections should be taken into account. This, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly what we talked about in this Chamber in the spring, when these measures were taken, that it is right that the Gyhnion Esso Bar, where ten customers visit during the day, not at once, but during the day, should be closed in the same way as the karaoke bar, where there have been large numbers of people present. That is what we discussed in this Chamber. And I don't understand the fact that the little coffee shop in the back sweats or the Lopen Neste gas station bar needs to be closed. They are, ladies and gentlemen, also questions of security of supply. Our truck drivers, heavy traffic, public transport, but also road users in general are using this gas station network and the services on it, and they will not work there if this café business goes completely out of it. Then it is stated that the Government should consider the possibility of limiting the territorial scope to a more subtle extent than the regional level. - Yes. This is exactly what we talked about last spring, we talked about in the referrals to this law, but you, my dear government, are not now doing what you here hope the Government will do. Why were those spring experiences not taken into account here? I personally do not understand that we are putting on the small gas stations on these roads, the only cafes in the villages, the lunches closed because some nightclub has been dancing on the table and singing karaoke. I believe that these measures should have been targeted more clearly there. We then raised the issue of staff restaurants, which are perceived to be very problematic, as has the restaurant and tourism industry. They lost about 75 to 85 per cent of their turnover in the spring with the government's closure. And now that they are not closed, there will of course be no customers there, but the costs will be borne by them, and they will not be covered by this possible compensation system of yours. Mr Kauma, the representative of the Economic Committee of the Coalition Party, will explain in more detail in a moment how we would have done this responsibly in the meeting. Or Lapland. Centralers, you do speak beautifully about the ski resorts in Lapland and their concern. There was a good, concrete presentation of how it could have been done responsibly from the external services point of view, and this external terrace model would have been implemented by the Coalition Party. Well, the big question is then this refund, which is becoming its own proposal. In the referral debate, the Minister said that this 50 million is just such a basic amount, but the actual amount of compensation is almost 140 million. And the absolute minimum must be that fixed costs will be reimbursed. These cafes, restaurants, nightclubs, lunch restaurants, evening restaurants, they are now in a much more difficult situation than they were last spring. They will not survive this three-week period if these, at least fixed costs, are not reimbursed. And take note, ladies and gentlemen of the left, of the fact that there are many workers there who are now in a very difficult place. We are concerned about these young women and young men who are doing this work, and I hope that they will not be forgotten here. The Coalition Party also proposes a number of good measures to facilitate the tourism and restaurant sector. The representative of the Economic Committee, Mr Kauma, will be presenting them in more detail shortly. And I think it is necessary that this exit strategy should also be developed and prepared for us to find this road, which will make it easier for the restaurant and tourism sector — and this also affects the cultural and event sector very much. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u5	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u6	Madam President! Last spring, the government appealed to labour market organisations, for example, to enable the employer to lay off staff on a fast schedule because of a surprising interest rate situation. Under those circumstances, it was the best course of action. It was all responsible from the point of view of both employees and employers in those circumstances. Well, now we are in a similar situation, but the government's approach is not the same. We have to ask why there is no similar model for lay-off. Restaurant entrepreneurs are really in a tight spot because of the special situation caused by the one-year interest rate, and many simply run out of money. It is wrong to require these companies to pay the lay-off pay at their own expense, if the restaurants are closed and there is no real work to be done. Yes, employees have, of course, earned their wages in accordance with the agreement and they must be taken care of, but it is wrong if the entrepreneur is now left behind in the role of the payer as a result of this government decision. Has the government been active in this matter? Furthermore, we must make every effort to ensure that restaurant companies, like other companies, remain standing and survive as healthy as possible beyond the pandemic period, because if we allow our businesses to fall, it will take much more time to rebuild. If there are no companies and entrepreneurs are in the pipe and are no longer able to do so, the country will not rise very easily after the pandemic. This should be borne in mind by everyone, especially the government. It is clear that, in this situation, restaurants must be compensated for the handicap of closure. In line with the proposal for a statement of objections, a simple model should be created to make payments to restaurants quickly. It must be borne in mind that the government's actions have put restaurant companies in a disastrous situation. All means must be used to give new opportunities to restaurants. Therefore, for example, lowering VAT by 10 percentage points would be a very necessary and welcome step. I am surprised by the Government's insidiousness in allowing restaurants the right to sell out alcohol in the case of stronger drinks, i.e. wines. I am talking here about drinks below 20 % vol. It is strange that some government parties, such as the Greens, and many representatives of the Government Party, have promised and supported this. The Greens promised that the right of way would be coming, but what have you done about it? [of the Group of the European People's Party: Nothing!] There should also be concern about restaurants that are not actually closed but which have actually lost their customers due to remote work and other restrictions. One example is university restaurants that are on top of nothing. They should be compensated by government action to compensate for the constraints imposed by the restrictions. By being more permissive and creating new opportunities for action, the restaurants in our country, and indeed other companies, would be better able to cope with the disadvantages of the interest rate. If they were to be carried out wisely now, the actions analysed and proposed in various studies and reports to promote the competitiveness of companies, the recovery of our country from the corona pandemic would also be less damaging. I wonder why the government thinks that everything must be done by strangling entrepreneurs almost to death when there are other policy options.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u7	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u9	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u10	Mr President! The Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy discussed the Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on accommodation and catering activities at a rapid pace, but sought to make a careful impression. The parties in the committee had a very united view of the fact that the three-week bracket presented is justified in itself. The aim of all of us is to take various measures to control the epidemic until vaccinations are in danger. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considered that there was a condition for non-proliferation. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy would not be in line with its name if, at the same time, we did not seek to mirror the impact of this decision on the sector and the wider Finnish economy. I would now like to raise a few points: First of all, it is important that the regions, in practice the provinces, which are subject to regulation, should only be resolved at the time of the adoption of the regulation. We have to try to be precise about this. Similarly, it is essential, as the statement to be made states, that the possibility of limiting the territorial scope must be assessed after three weeks. This means, in Finnish, that differences within regions are also taken into account in relation to the epidemic. In this referral debate, Minister Haatainen said in this regard that there can be no different regulation in adjacent municipalities. However, I believe that this statement, if it is adopted, will oblige the government to seek a solution. It is clear that regional precision is also important for the sense of justice of citizens, for the economic recovery of the industry and also for the reduction of the liability. For the authorities, this means work, but for that purpose they have been selected for their duties. The figure is that this issue was already on the table last spring, last summer and the government is moving these issues forward again. Mr President! For almost a year now, the economic capacity of the restaurant sector to take new restrictive measures has been exhausted by an epidemic. In addition to restrictions, consumer consumption patterns have changed. In terms of restrictions, it is therefore very important to recognise the diversity of restaurant activities. It is already clear that food restaurants are less infected than nightclubs, pubs and so on. In the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this should be taken into account at the latest in the case of possible permanent regulation after three weeks of closure. The food sector plays an important role from the point of view of the rise of the new economy. Today's proposals are significantly lacking in the activities of legitimate businesses. It is quite clear that the implementation of the lock will create a strong liability for the industry. We must ensure that the food sector in the front line of the epidemic receives compensation. There's no stalling. The system must be (a) fair, (b) simple, (c) adequate and (d) fast. The Group of the Economic and Social Committee of the Coalition Party objected to this, with amendments and proposals for statements. They will soon be presented by Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u11	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u12	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This government proposal relates to this corona pandemic that is possessed of the whole world and that is possessed of Finland. In Finland, too, we have had to make decisions in this regard under difficult circumstances, and it has become quite clear that our existing legislation, such as the Act on Preparedness and the Act on Contagion Diseases, is not sufficiently prepared for the situation in which we are now. It is also clear that the decision-making and communication of these interest rate measures have been compromised and mistakes have been made, but in such an unprecedented situation they could not have been avoided in any way. I therefore believe that the Finnish Government has done relatively well in dealing with this corona crisis. I would like to thank the government, all the officials of the government, the regional government and the local government, and I would like to thank the legal scholars, and I would like to thank the Finnish people, all of whom have contributed to managing and curbing this crisis in this situation. The situation in Finland, as far as I can interpret, is currently alarming. The Government has just decided to adopt regulations for Parliament under the Emergency Act, but I still ask whether the measures that have now been taken are sufficient. Of course, tough action is not an absolute value, but the most important thing is that we take adequate measures in time and do not fudge unduly with this dangerous disease. We need a proper barrier to control the levels of infection, and we can expect lower levels of infection to increase the vaccine coverage. In the public debate, more and more people are asking why it has been so difficult in Finland to decide on these interest rate restrictions within the framework of the Finnish legal framework. Member of Parliament Aki Lindén said on Twitter about whether we are dealing with the corona crisis or whether we are holding a seminar on legal science. This is how I've felt sometimes. Are we dealing with a crisis of this kind that poses a serious threat to the health and life of Finns, or are we holding a seminar for researchers in constitutional law? So why is it so much more difficult to introduce these restrictive measures in Finland than in other European countries? This is partly due to the fact that we have a completely unique system of constitutional control — and I personally support this Finnish system of prior control, which has advantages and disadvantages, as in all constitutional control systems — but has this completely unique constitutional control system also led to completely unique interpretations of the Constitution and international contractual obligations? This is the question. So has our unique system of monitoring constitutionality led to completely unique interpretations? The Administrative Committee today issued its opinion on the so-called 'Boundary HE'. During the discussion of the Administrative Committee, we received a report on 21 European countries which have introduced much tougher restrictive measures than in Finland. [Left: Just like this!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u13	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u14	Madam President! Indeed, we are dealing with restrictions on the restaurant, and the whole Chamber knows that it is in everyone's interest to control the epidemic. The Coalition Party supports all the effective and proportionate means necessary for the fight against the epidemic. I hope, however, that afterwards it will be assessed whether the declaration of exceptional circumstances was a necessary condition for limiting the restaurant activity which we are currently discussing in this Chamber. The government would have had one year to play its own role in combating the epidemic and to prepare proportionate means for possible new restrictions. Even today, there is no mandatory testing at the borders in practice, and the government's proposal states that the restaurants do not have the type of industry classifications that would allow us, for example, to define a café, a restaurant, a bar or a nightclub separately. Is it really the case that this year the government has not been able to come up with a way to distinguish between the café and the bar at the legislative level? We all know that the situation in the restaurant sector is very weak. Labour-intensive sector: the tax footprint alone is estimated at 2.6 billion per year. Of course, it is about work and jobs, but in the midst of the health and economic crisis of this year, it is also about social factors — not only jobs, but also the fact that for many lonely people, the nearby diner, the local restaurant or the café is a place with the only social contacts of the day. Mr President! In the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is going to make a number of statements relating, among other things, to these allowances. Instead of lost earnings, compensation should be specifically proportionate to compensation for rents, insurance, stocks of raw materials that have been contaminated. We have been talking here over the year about various types of support measures, and it is not really about support that we would, in a way, encourage over a certain period of time, but we would have to give proportionate compensation to those areas where we have limited our activities by law. This has also been pointed out by many restaurant entrepreneurs that this is not about support measures, it is about compensation. Then I'll take this lay-off pay. It is wrong that, in this context, the government is not prepared to introduce flexibility for the days of the lay-off period. Last year, instead of two weeks, there was a time limit of five days, and this would have been necessary for the restaurant industry in this situation too, especially since we are restricting the operation of blocking operations for three weeks. Two weeks is more than half of this time. When we listen to restaurants, we have to recognise and admit that take away is artificial breathing and that does not solve anything. In this situation, when the lock is closer, a few days away, it is important to look after it, looking into the spring. Hopefully, over the coming year, we will still be holding a debate in this Chamber on the transfer from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, as it has been done in this proposal. I have also taken an initiative on this issue a year ago. It has been supported by many of my fellow Members through signatures and speeches. I hope that the committee will also make progress this year. Sunday's double pay, allowing distance purchasing and selling of alcoholic beverages and calculating VAT for the years to come in the restaurant sector — they would be genuine, the right means for this Chamber to recognise this situation, understand the importance of its tax revenue, but also the social aspect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u15	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u16	Mr President! We are dealing here with the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on the closure of restaurants for three weeks. The Coalition Party raised an objection to the report, which contained two amendments and five motions for statements. The amendments we have tabled are as follows: First of all, Article 3a3 is famous:‘Staff restaurants shall be subject to the law, with the exception of staff restaurants located in garrison areas, prisons, hospitals, nursing homes, rehabilitation centres and other health and social care units, day-care centres, primary education or secondary education establishments, power plants or industrial establishments.’ And then, Mr President, a second amendment to the Rule, which would add a new paragraph to this: ‘The outdoor terraces of the Centres can be served under the conditions that it can be arranged in compliance with the security provisions’. Mr President! Apart from the fact that three statements have already been made for adoption in this report, we make the following five statements: 1) Develop a simple and quick payment compensation model based on accounting. The amounts of compensation must be sufficient and take into account the fact that the financial margins of restaurants have decreased, as the interest rate crisis has already lasted for almost a year and the facilitated lay-off procedure for workers has ceased to exist. 2) A temporary reduction in VAT on alcoholic beverages from 24% to 14%. 3) Allow the sale of wines to restaurants with a temporary right to drink. 4) If the law is in force due to the large number of cases of disease, 28.3. the amount of compensation to be paid to restaurants will be increased proportionately thereafter. 5) The Government will develop a credible exit strategy to safeguard the conditions for profitable business in the future and to improve the investment and growth potential of the industry in those sectors that have been particularly affected by the corona epidemic, the failed communication of the government and the restriction of business. Mr President! I would also like to say that, in this situation, restaurants have now been raised to the beak of a stick, as we know, although in fact a large part of the problems are caused, in particular, by the fact that so far there has been no demand for a negative interest test result at the borders or by people who have not received interest. In addition, it should be noted that this bill does not distinguish restaurants according to whether they are, for example, a café, a restaurant or a nightclub, although the risk of infection varies according to the type of restaurant. Many restaurants have little financial room for manoeuvre, because, as I said, this crisis has already lasted for almost a year and the accelerated lay-off procedure is no longer in place, which makes the economic situation of both entrepreneurs and workers difficult. Mr President! I would also like to point out that this text of the draft law mentioned that EUR 50 million has been earmarked for compensation for companies, but it is totally inadequate. However, I would like to point out that, in the course of the committee's deliberations, it has become clear that this is becoming a separate government proposal which will allow us to look more closely at the criteria used for the reimbursement of the costs of restaurants. As an example, there could be full use of accounting figures, which would not depend on the company’s verbatim or even on the ability of the Finnish language, how well the company manages to obtain these compensations, such as the turnover of March 2019 or an equivalent figure that is very unambiguous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u17	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u21	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u22	Madam President! First of all, I support the good proposals for amendments and statements made by Mr Kauma. As Mr Heinonen pointed out in his own speech, it has been for years that the Assembly has proposed both a reduction in the VAT on alcoholic beverages and a ban on the sale of wines to restaurants. As early as last spring, we proposed as one way of supporting restaurants to allow them to sell out wines and deliver them home. Unfortunately, this was not taken up at the time, but it is still time, it is not too late. There are ways to help, and many of them have been presented and heard here today — now all we need is a state of will.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u23	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u24	Madam President! As the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has said, we agree fairly with this basic idea: restrictions on restaurants must be made. But where and how and to what restaurants? This proposal is not fair on a regional level. It's not proportionate. The report thus states: ‘The Committee on Constitutional Affairsalsoassessed,in its assessment of subsequent amendments to the Act on Diseases,the need for and proportionality to At the time, the committee stressed that the conditions of necessity should guide decision-making on a legal basis on the territorial scope and that restrictions cannot be imposed or maintained in areas where it is not necessary due to an infectious disease situation.’ This opinion would give much more careful and precise regulation room and opportunity. Why didn't the committee do this? That's what I'm wondering. The effort has now been made to clarify this regional approach. Why did it not immediately specify that the regions would have been given more autonomy to assess whether it would be necessary to close all the city's restaurants at once if there was no single infection? There are areas where there has been no infection for months. They are within the provinces, within the provinces, but they are whole cities where there is no single infection. I believe that this should definitely have included the possibility of making more detailed decision-making within the regions and also of giving room to the fact that everything does not have to be closed if there is no necessary reason to do so, as mentioned by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There is absolutely no justification, if there are no infections, for shutting down restaurants because of infections. Then on these allowances: They are undersized. They should have been fully taken into account here and taken on board such a model, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u25	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u26	Tack, värderade talman! Thank you, Mr President. There have been many excellent speeches here. In particular, Mr Kärnä gave an excellent speech there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Representative As far as Mr Laukkanen's speech is concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, alongside the others, has assessed this necessity. When all this is based on reducing people-to-people contacts with these provisions during this three-week period, this debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs clearly stated that this condition of necessity exists. That is what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u28	Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u29	Madam President! That is what I read here and carefully said. But is it really the case that the requirement of necessity is met where there is no infection?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u30	And still Mr Rinne, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u31	Mr President! According to the study, this disease is currently progressing particularly among people aged 20 to 40. There is also evidence in the ICU that this is the case. And from this point of view, the necessity that exists from the point of view of these articles, namely to intervene in the opening hours of restaurants in general, is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u32	To the list of speakers. Congressman Holopainen's Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u33	Thank you, Madam Speaker! Mr Strand said very well here that this is indeed a virus and not anyone's malicious intentions. No one would want us to be in this situation, to have to close down restaurants and to have had to restrict many other activities in this society for a long time, with fewer social contacts. Some high school students have also been home for a long time and have been found to have effects on both mental health and interruptions. Similarly, long-term distance learning by university students has caused interruptions, and this too must, of course, be tackled and supported. Let's hope we can contain the epidemic. Now the infection rates have been high in record terms, and it is certainly necessary that we take action quickly enough, because otherwise we will only be in a worse lock, and it will also have very serious effects on the economy. Finland has now done reasonably well on European standards so far, precisely because it has been possible to keep the rates of infectious disease relatively reasonable and thus business activity has also been possible. The best example of this was summer time, when there were very few infections in Finland and it was possible to act more normally. It is truly regrettable and regrettable that this kind of distress has hit so many traders and many students, including people in Finland, with the virus, and of course everything is done with regard to these elements of support that adequate support is provided. There are certainly no solutions for all of this either, but yes, cost support has been offered here and has been taken forward and the shortcomings have been patched up along the way, for example. Then, of course, it is not always possible to compensate for these non-financial losses in the same way, whether it is health or, for example, the lost years of students, if, on the other hand, support measures are not enough to get back into the study, but everything is done for this too. After all, three statements were made in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which then guide further preparation. We expect that the support instruments set up by this corona virus pandemic and their scope will cover the various players in the catering industry in a fair manner, and we refer here in the text of the report to the very fact that the difficult situation of human resources restaurants in particular has arisen. It has become virtually impossible to do so when the location of the educational institution or business property has been closed without any specific restrictions on restaurant activities, and, of course, the lack of staff and students has put an end to the conditions for running restaurants, depending on the location, but a very large number of people are concerned. That is why it was considered important to state that such feeding movements also fall within the scope of the legislation on compensation for future losses, and we refer here to this first statement. Furthermore, in this next effort, we would like to take into account that, where the infection situation permits, the risk profiles of feeding establishments and different facilities in terms of the spread of viral infections are better taken into account. We know that the virus, especially in outdoor areas, is much less contagious than in indoors. On the inside, of course, it is very difficult to completely avoid that the virus cannot be transmitted when it is eaten without masks and is close together, so it must of course be taken into account that the risk here is, of course, particularly related to those indoors, no matter how responsible it is — and I do not think it is the responsibility, but that we are now faced with a virus epidemic that is contagious in a certain way and the only way to avoid it is to avoid these contacts. I therefore think it is important that this should take equal account of all livelihoods, this need to avoid contacts. Now, unfortunately, we have still been reported, for example, from shipyards and construction companies, which, yes, should be in such a situation avoided, when we are now talking about the fact that in some situation there might even be a curfew necessary. In other words, it is totally unreasonable to think that sufficient restrictions could not be imposed on such jobs if they were not able to put an end to these chains of infection. Of course, masks, quarantines and border controls are one of the issues that should be considered in future in this legal analysis, as has been pointed out here in many debates, that it is very difficult to weigh these fundamental rights, but these restrictions must be applied in such a way as to minimise the harm to both traders and our schoolchildren. And I am sure that there will be further work to be done throughout Europe and in Finland in the future to consider how we will be able to target these restrictions as effectively as possible. Helsinki has now begun to address the problem of tracing, and that is one example of how, when it is not always too complicated to make people aware of exposure, we can act more quickly, and all such easy means that do not make life difficult for anyone should certainly be made available. It is also hoped that during this period, when we have only this take-away food allowed at restaurants, we will indeed create the framework,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u34	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u35	Madam President! There have already been many excellent speeches from all over the Chamber. The most important thing for the economy and also for restaurants is to break this epidemic, and this barrage of restaurants is, in a certain way, a blunt instrument, as I have said before, but justified in such a threatening, difficult situation. However, it is important to consider from now on that regulation and restrictions are proportionate to the situation of infection and, at the same time, for example, vaccinations are progressing, that is to say that the situation is changing and that it should be removed from its bluntness to more precise regulation. On the one hand, this bluntness is in relation to the business models of restaurants, which result in certain economic differences, and on the other hand, to the purely physical restaurants. And in this case, when you look at this regulation for three weeks, it would be important now, from the economic point of view, to consider that different restaurants operating within different frameworks are treated equally. And this has already been mentioned several times in student and staff restaurants, which have virtually been out of business but which do not come under the law... They're special cases. Its compensation model should be such as to take account of such different situations. Well, as far as this more sophisticated risk profiling is concerned in the future, it is very important that it proceed and it is important that it is based on the best possible research. Many here have pointed out this regional fineness. I understand that, but I would like to emphasise this content in Declaration 2 even more because, when we know how this virus is spreading, these superinfections are quite central to it. In other words, if there is a condition in which the virus can spread quickly, it can spread very quickly to the new area, but if we restrict it, so that there are no circumstances in which such large chains of infection are born, then, in a way, the regional spread will slow down, which means that there is a clear difference between these third and second statements. I, too, am in favour of this regional review being important in itself, but above all, it would be good if we could find instruments to direct this restaurant activity, as long as this pandemic or the threat of its expansion is in place, as far as possible, in such a way that it would target and direct its restaurant activity to health security. This is probably one of the reasons for the distinction between the interior and the outside, but I am not even suggesting that I be an expert on this issue, but I recommend with a sensitive ear that they listen. Finally, I would like to mention the following:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u36	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we are now living in a very critical time in the fight against the spread of this transformed corona, and, for example, here in the capital region the situation is quite flashy at the moment. The THL is very clear in its position, the situation is getting worse. HUS has also called for swifter, stronger restrictions, and the situation is getting worse everywhere in Finland. Here in Finland we have been spared a reasonable period of time from the full flash of the situation. Other parts of Europe have already lived with restrictions on curfews, closed restaurants, distance schools and hobbies. Mr Zyskowicz, in your own speech you well described this international situation and also wondered how, despite the constitution of the countries concerned, strict measures against the interest rate could have been laid down elsewhere. I agree, and I would like to continue to say how it is possible that we, for example, have had a situation picture of the regional government authorities that were so different from the country's leadership and political decision-makers across party boundaries. I am surprised that the Avits have not used the legal obligation to act within their own sphere of competence in the fight against the corona, and I am talking here about the fact that our borders have not been under the same strict control as elsewhere. Today, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs adopted an opinion on the Government's proposal to clarify the Act on communicable diseases in order to eliminate such ambiguity, and in this context the Committee stated in its opinion that the Council has had a strong mandate to contribute to tackling the problems already in the current law. If, for example, a ten-day quarantine can be required in other parts of Europe and in other parts of the world after arrival, at the risk of a fine — for example in Britain — and at the risk of a fine, at the risk of requiring the introduction of no less than two negative tests at the time of quarantine, I do not understand how we could allow borders to leak in this way. Mr President! We're fighting time now. Intensive care threatens to become a burden, and at its worst it means unnecessary loss of human life. We are also fighting time for the survival of our companies and, for example, the creative sector — freelancers, musicians and others. That is why this law has now been brought to this Parliament. This law has not been brought here because there is no respect for the restaurant industry or because people want to be mean to the restaurant's customers. This law is being brought here because we need to win this battle so that we can regain the conditions for the normal functioning of society as soon as possible. Mr President! Korona exposure has occurred in a wide variety of restaurants. Now it is important that we understand this. In my hometown of Espoo, there have been infections in bars, fast-food houses and lunch places. Listening to the epidemiologists, we must all understand that this virus does not separate people from whether they prefer to visit karaoke or Savoy, and that is why they want to do this three-week lockout. The longer we do not get rid of this disease, the more people will suffer from the corona in a way other than that of the corona. Parliament has already approved a government amendment to the Act on Contagious Diseases, which empowers municipalities and regional government authorities to restrict, among other things, customer volumes in private business premises. In the past, on 26 January, the government jointly stated that in the areas of the dispersal phase, among other things, the use of masks should be tightened up and the maximum recommendation for teleworking should be applied. Children’s hobbies are limited, young people’s studies have suffered, and many of them have had a very heavy emotional burden. Now that every effort is being made to suppress the flashy corona situation, no one should blow into this smoldering coal, and everyone must bear responsibility for this. Let us hope that three weeks is enough, Mr President. If it is not enough, we will have to see even more difficult times, and that is why we, everyone, must shoulder our responsibilities in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u38	Congressman Mäkynen Matias.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u39	Madam President! None of us want to be in this situation. The Korona virus is currently spreading rapidly in Finland, and the capacity of health care is being met. That is why the government has stated the exceptional circumstances, decided to introduce the powers of the Emergency Act, and that is why we are now dealing with this whole package of restaurant restrictions in Parliament. In particular, coronavirus transmissible virus spreads faster than the original virus and also causes a more serious form of disease. Restrictive measures have several negative effects. In this situation, however, restrictions have been identified as necessary in order to stop the spread of the virus. This debate has highlighted very well the many negative effects of restrictions on restaurants, but equally negative effects on people's lives are on schooling, hobbies and other activities. Economics and health continue to go hand in hand in the management of this crisis, which is why it is now the right solution to do these large-scale closures, to compensate restaurants for the damage caused by this. And even though we are talking about restaurants, it is worth noting that under the Act on communicable diseases many other facilities are also closed down and there is no reason to raise any sector to a stick. But why are we taking such extensive restrictive measures at this stage for three weeks? The aim is indeed to limit as much as possible human gatherings. This is why farms are closed to a very large extent, including those that have not yet been identified, even in municipalities where infections have not necessarily been detected in recent days. The virus does not respect municipal boundaries, nor does it respect any other boundaries, but it spreads where people are gathered, and it is becoming more and more susceptible to the transmutation virus. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have tabled a number of proposals for statements in this report, which have also been discussed in this debate. There is a need for these support instruments to involve the various players in the nutritious industry in a broad sense. In practice, this means, for example, that student canteens or staff restaurants that are also visited by outsiders are taken into account in the preparation of the compensation system and that restaurant operators who are genuinely suffering from this situation and lock are covered by the compensation system. On the other hand, legislation has been required to take into account the different risk profiles of restaurants and restaurants in the future with regard to the spread of viral infections. This has to be done as far as possible, but we also have to take account of the disease situation and the needs of this transmissible virus, so the task is not quite simple, but it must nevertheless be pursued. Thirdly, Parliament now calls on the Government to consider, after a three-week closure period in future legislation, the possibility of narrowing the territorial scope further than the regional level. This too is worth trying to do but, at the same time, bear in mind that, even if no infections have been detected in your municipality of residence right now, but there have been infections across the border or in a few neighbouring communities, the virus can suddenly be found in your immediate circle, and therefore a mere municipal restriction is not necessarily an effective way of dealing with the corona virus. Taneli Puumalainen from THL told us yesterday that from the beginning of April we will receive 160000 Pfizer-Biontech vaccines a week. Therefore, in April with AstraZeneca vaccine, more than 200250 doses per week are approaching. And as the availability of the vaccine improves, we will be able to better anticipate the future as well as make a plan to dismantle and return to normal at some point. We must note that the only way out of this crisis is through the availability of vaccines. Until then, we can all contribute to keeping the situation under control and the need for such restrictive measures is no longer necessary. Avoid gatherings also in places that are not currently restricted by legislation and take care of each other. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u40	Congressman Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u41	Madam President! It is good to remind you why we are also making this amendment of the law. The situation regarding the interest rate is very serious in Finland. The infection rates are three times as high as in the spring at the worst time. Of course, some of this explains better testing possibilities, but HUS’s intensive care capacity is already very high and the situation is getting worse every day. In addition, disease variants have changed the situation in an unforeseeable direction. Mr Zyskowicz has just asked very well: do we have sufficient restrictions in place in time? Within a few weeks, we will see whether the restrictions are enough to keep the Finns healthy and safe, which I assume is an important principle in this Chamber for all of us. However, in order for us Finns to be resilient during the corona period, the restrictions must be proportionate, justified and, according to fundamental rights, precise and necessary. This law will be in force for three weeks from next Monday. This closure contributes to controlling the spread of the disease. It is important that there is sufficient and fair support for restaurants because of the lock. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we raised the issue to This statement is specified in the text by the reference to restaurants associated with human resources and educational institutions, which are also to receive compensation. This is, therefore, a correction to the misconception of the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which has been mentioned by the members of the Assembly. In other words, the restaurants to which outside customers can be reached must be in the compensation area. Some of the restaurants in a particular organisation must be open at all times. These include restaurants for care services. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy requires that, after three weeks of closure, different types of restaurants and different types of premises, such as outdoor spaces and premises, should be taken into account in the regulation. At the level of the opinion, we also raised the regional review according to the record of the Constitutional Committee. The Government should consider the possibility of limiting the barrage of restaurants in a more subregional manner than at regional level. To conclude, the importance of sensible and well-connected restrictions for the sake of the resilience of all of us and how important it is that these areas, which are particularly affected by corona restrictions, receive sufficient support so that sometimes, when the time comes to return, we have restaurants, but also events, living culture, art, sports, live matches and competitions, togetherness and the nourishment of the soul, body and spirit. On my own behalf, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the officials for their swift and decisive action on the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u42	Congressman Adlercreutz is gone. Congressman Rantanen Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u43	Mr President! Now that the government has also announced the activating of the Emergency Act today, it should of course be noted that we have been rather reactive in dealing with this corona, unfortunately, and not in an attempt to anticipate these situations. For example, with regard to this transgenic virus, we have seen what it brings from other parts of Europe, but we still have some wonders about whether we have the same virus or whether we have another virus in Finland. And then, to begin with, with this border action, it must be said that at this point, when we are restricting, among other things, livelihoods, such as restaurants in this proposal, people feel that it is extremely unfair that we still have the border leaking. So a year has passed since this crisis, and we still do not have such a good plug on the borders that the virus does not cross the borders. And, as Mrs Zyskowicz, in her very proper speech, estimates this very situation, when the majority of European countries are able to ask for a negative test certificate or a certificate of disease, including within the Schengen area, it is quite amazing why Finland is unable to do this. It would take some of these asymptomatic carriers, leave them in the country, and it would not be so easy to slip in here. When combined with this forced testing at the border, then most likely the limit would be closed, but now it is not, and in that respect these restrictive measures which I have.... First we have to protect the exterior and then we have to protect the inside. Now people feel that this is really unfair, even though it is certainly partly necessary. Yes, the starting point is that first the outer shell is closed and then only restrictions are placed inside — the citizens are now receiving these greetings quite widely. But then to this restaurant thing. It is probably the case that there is at least some justification for this. After all, the starting point has been that the biggest chains are probably connected to the pubs and nightclubs, and in this regard, of course, the question arises as to whether this is to be closed down everywhere, a proportionate measure and whether it is targeted correctly and, in this respect, it is certainly worth considering yes. Then another thing we were wondering about was that terraces, for example, could not be open. And now I don't quite understand why everything should be done in Finland from the beginning, when we have a huge number of examples from the world of how these things are done in a health-safe way. For example, there have been cuts in customer seats, yes, but there are examples of four people sitting at the table, or if there are six people with the same family. That I think it would be worth looking at the model and trying to keep it open as much as safely possible — well, now that is not possible. Then this sale of alcohol. I think a year ago, more or less a year ago, in April last year, there was a debate here, and quite a few, I think, Greens, then very much put forward this position in social media and blogs, that they support this sale of alcohol, which, at this point, would certainly have been a very proper move to include a take-away. However, it would have helped some of these entrepreneurs that when people order food there, they can also order wine from the same place with food — it would most likely have benefited both restaurant entrepreneurs and the customer. And then I would like to return a little more to this idea raised by Mr Zyskowicz as to why we are poking this legislation and why we are making such legislation and allowing these fundamental rights to go by even a little bit in a fundamental way. In my view, when there is a normal situation, it is clear that these are viewed for individuals, but at this point, when we are in a crisis situation, I find it extraordinary that the interests of the individual outweigh the public interest, and that is what this is all about. If we get a disease across the border, then we cannot think that it is more important for this person to cross the border than we protect the people he may infect here. That is what this is all about, but for one reason or another this does not seem to be going into practice. Finally, Mr President, it is all the same as what is being done in this Chamber. This crisis and these levels of infection are brought down by the fact that every person is trying to reduce their contacts now, and here is this three - week period, when it would be excellent to do so. And that communication should also be inculcated by the government that, now that everything else is closed for three weeks, everyone would avoid those contacts as much as possible. In other words,this ‘stop-and-go’ adviceshould be given to people:removement is onlyfor unavoidable reasons such as work,foodshop,pharmaceutical,healthcare,adults This is the message that people should be getting out of this hall at the moment, so that this disease situation can be improved and made more normal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u44	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u45	Madam President! Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a good and thorough job in this report, and we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are also assessing the constitutionality of this government's proposal in the same way as we did in the past winter and spring when it comes to similar government proposals. When I listened to these speeches, I drew attention, particularly at the beginning, to the speeches made by Mr Heinonen and Mr Kopra, which did give the impression that there was no crisis in this country and that there was no interest, and I think there was nothing, that these proposals were being made here just to spite the citizens and the entrepreneurs. In my view, this is quite misleading to bring it up in this light, because we are in a very bad situation. In addition to this capital region, the situation is becoming increasingly escalating throughout the country, and that is why such tough measures are needed. I am very pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in its statement, pointed out that, once this three-week period is over, it will then be necessary to assess, on the basis of the current disease situation, whether these restrictions can be narrowed down more precisely in the regional context, which measures will then be needed in the future. A similar position was reached by the Constitutional Committee, although no expert specifically asked for this. Originally, less than a year ago, these restrictions were introduced throughout the country. This fineness has now been brought about by this regional division, depending on whether there is a fundamental, accelerating or spreading phase, and it is a good thing that we should look at this issue even more carefully in the future. It is essential to be aware of the kind of crisis we are in. Here THL's estimates are quite clear and there is also a need for appropriate measures, and I think that the committees have done a good job here. Let us hope that, in the event of a disease, we can do better, but in a way that will help entrepreneurs who are now severely affected by this and make every effort to continue their livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u46	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u47	Madam President! When there are restrictions on fundamental rights, as is now the case with the exercise of the profession, it is quite clear that the situation is very serious. Last night, we held a joint debate in this Chamber on the extent to which healthcare staff are at the extremes of their ability to cope in many places. As Mr Kosonen has already said, for example, the utilisation rate of HUS's intensive care capacity is already worryingly high, and it is hard to cope in the health sector as a whole. In addition to the medical staff, persons responsible for tracing, for example, who have been working very long hours for a year, are also at the limit of coping. And this is certainly not just a challenge for the capital region, but it is also hard in many places outside the capital region. The disease situation has now worsened and the forecasts for the coming weeks are extremely worrying. For these reasons, and finally for the protection of people’s lives and lives, such drastic measures are now needed. Concerns about the ability to cope with health care will not be much warmed up if it does not materialise in action. Here, too, Parliament must act consistently. Mr President! Having said all this, however, I would like to stress the importance of the statements contained in the report, namely the need to move within three weeks from these rather blunt measures to more targeted and effective, effective measures. I am referring here to the finer definition of regional allocation as well as the identification of different types of restaurants and restaurants. So while we do not yet know what the disease situation is in three weeks, it is important that the instruments are there. The report's statement on aid instruments is also important. It is essential that we can compensate for the loss of restaurants in a reasonable and fair way, and I refer, among other things, to the discussion that has taken place here on staff restaurants.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u48	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u49	Madam President! There has been quite a lot of discussion here today about the content of these statements, as the previous speaker has said, and it is indeed good that they pay attention to the geographical scope of regulation and then also to these different types of restaurants. But what is unfortunate about this is that it only applies to future legislation. Of course, a lot has been going on in this Chamber in the past months, since spring, the debate on the need to be able to identify more precisely the different types of restaurants and the real risk they pose to the spread of the epidemic. This has not resulted in any concrete measures and we have not even received an assessment from the government of the possible differences between them. It is clear that this geographical application, which is now the result of this legislation, will create limits that will create distortions of competition. And in this situation, of course, this kind of finer application, i.e. more sophisticated application of the provincial level, would also lead to these limits. It is clear that restaurants on that side of the border that are allowed to be open would have quite a competitive advantage compared to others. But in order for this future legislation to be as fair as possible and also to seem fair, it is important that we now finally pay attention to this and, in particular, to the different risk profiles of different restaurants, which will also be clarified and brought to Parliament for information.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u50	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u51	Mr President! I therefore support the proposals made by Mr Kauma. I would like to make such an observation in this debate that the Economic Committee in its statements and the MPs across the government—opposition limits are close to sending out any message that threeweeks of this category of county model will not be used on this issue. As a result, the government must take immediate action to ensure that we have regulations and regulations and preparations in place when we are in a situation in three weeks' time when we are assessing things further. So now we have to start preparing instead of updating in three weeks, that a moment, now we need more time when we have to plan regulation. In practice, therefore, I think that if we go to the grassroots level, that we should have such regulation, that we can take into account, for example, that when the epidemiological situation is different in Kauhava, Lapua, Seinäjoki or Kurika, different solutions must be made there. And the same applies to these definitions of restaurant activities. These pious speeches have been heard for a long time now about the role of the restaurant, the role of the pub and the role of the nightclub. Now that regulation is on the table and in preparation, so that we will then be ready at the beginning of April and use these means. We have a government that has to be responsible for these tasks. We have officials who need to work. Three weeks, and we need to start the preparatory work right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u52	In this context, I would like to say that the amendments to the articles will be made in the context of that vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u53	Madam President! Having listened to this debate, I would like to thank the opposition for this constructive spirit that exists in this motion, and also for the constructive feedback that certainly relates to the shared problems that are still contained in it. I think it is very important that regional government agencies have now had the opportunity in different regions to consider whether secondary schools are in distance education, how much the second level is, because the situation is very varied across the country. But, as has been pointed out here, on the other hand, the cluster of diseases may also be born very quickly. Yes, in the same way that speeches have been made here, I think it is important that, if we think about this – hopefully we will not have to use this legislation after that – we will be able to look at them at a more detailed level, even if at local level, because, of course, the situation is different from that of a year ago, when no one had much information about the interest rate, how it is going to spread, what the situation is, and now we have much more information about it. People are tired of this situation, and therefore all restrictions must be only necessary to keep the situation under control. Of course, in those municipalities where there has been no known interest rate, the restaurant entrepreneur may well question whether this is absolutely necessary now, but here we are, and this three weeks we have to get over it, and of course they will have the same compensation for the fact that, under the law, freedom of business is now being restricted. It has also been discussed here that a good, perhaps small, but in some way, support would have been for restaurants to have the right to sell out for this three-week period. Indeed, it was debated a year ago, and I think it is quite justified, and I do not believe that it would destroy our monopoly system, because it is only a temporary and extremely exceptional situation. After all, the countries have applied for many notifications from the EU Commission on how to support their own business field in such an exceptional situation, but of course the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is certainly full of work on many other issues as well. I hope that this will be the last restriction on freedom of industry, which will have to be done, but of course the worrying situation, particularly in the Helsinki and Uusimaa regions, is very serious, and that is why we should take very seriously the fact that bad measures may still be coming. But I hope that the public now realises that, especially in those regions where there is an epidemic, there will be a very strict follow-up — and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u54	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u55	Madam President! As far as my previous speech is concerned, there are a couple of points that have not been said because of the lack of time. When I have criticized this overly strict Finnish interpretation of fundamental rights and constitutions, the public debate and the wider question is: what is the problem? Is it not a good thing that the fundamental rights of Finns are then taken better care than the fundamental rights of all other Europeans? Well, the problem is, of course, that in this overly tight Finnish interpretation of fundamental rights there is not enough fundamental rights. For example, these border measures have been prepared for months. I have looked at the related documents, the statements of the Ministry of Justice and the views of constitutional scholars and so on, and in practice all have been removed from what is the legal certainty of this person who comes into the country, that he is not subject to a mandatory test at the border, that his personal freedom and integrity are not so restricted. But where has there been an examination of the right to health, even life, of the hundreds of people who have suffered from corona disease while these borders have been leaked and as a result have become ill? Similar fundamental rights may be added, for example, in the case of restaurant restrictions. Is it just about the protection of the property of restaurant entrepreneurs and freedom of business, or is it also about the right of these potential customers to health, as the Prime Minister said yesterday in the A-Talk broadcast well? Another problem which may not be seen outside this house, but which I believe should be seen in this house: of course, fundamental rights and the Constitution limit the legislator's powers, that is quite clear. So the Constitution does not only apply to judges and civil servants, but also restricts the legislator's activities. That's the nature of it, isn't it? But if we interpret the Constitution and fundamental rights very strictly, those restrictions on the discretion of the legislator are more stringent than in other similar countries. And when we in Finland and other democratic countries also have this principle of democracy, that is to say that Parliament decides what laws are to be observed in the country, too tight constitutional and fundamental rights interpretations will therefore reduce the legislator's margin of discretion more than in other countries and more than is justified. Finally, the Constitution itself does not provide answers to any specific questions. It is a question of the interpretation of the Constitution. We have a good constitution, it is a question of interpreting it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u56	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u57	Madam President! Indeed, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we have heard a great deal of experts, and it was, indeed, unanimous that this three-week closure of the restaurants is now mandatory. The restaurant industry also felt that this should be done. This is the case in many other European countries, and of course it is because this disease situation would not explode. This is proactive, proactive. Finland has acted reasonably well with various restrictions during this interest rate — of course there is much to improve, but reasonably well. On the other hand, there has not been very good work on compensation and subsidies, and quite a bit has gone by since the cost subsidies and other subsidies, and this has been due to the lack of good practice with compensation and subsidies, the lack of adequate listening to those affected by the subsidies and, in this case, the lack of listening to the entrepreneurs in the restaurant sector in this situation. As Mr Kauma said earlier here, the best way to see what has happened to the company is through the books. It sees real losses and losses, and according to what has actually happened, they should then be compensated for, and not by developing some of their own strange compensation models, which then do not hit those who suffer most financially. I am going to make a clause here in a moment — or wherever it is made — and give some reasons for our disagreement on this proposal. The expert reports often revealed that the risk of infection in outdoor areas is very low, and we have been contacted a lot, for example, from Northern Finland, ski resorts, to be able to provide catering in the open spaces safely. At the same time, I present this proposal for a statement by us: ‘The Commission requires that external terraces,which allow for the safekeeping of meals, enable the continuation of activities also during the period of restriction. ‘I saw it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u58	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u59	Madam President! Temporary changes to the law on restaurant and accommodation activities are challenging from the point of view of both companies and employees, and I cannot believe that there is anyone in this house who would be happy to make these decisions. People's livelihoods, health, coping, the future of companies, everyone's at risk. Concerns about the future, about livelihoods, but above all about health are in people’s minds. In this situation, I would perhaps also like to remind you of what has been said quite little in this Chamber and, at least, where I get the feedback quite often, how, as a whole, we have taken into account the services sector and the workers in the service sector. And there may even be a message from the cleaning sector in particular that it has not even been considered necessary in hospitals to vaccinate even cleaners who work there as cleaning staff and make sure that the places are kept clean. This only reflects in its own way what we have in regard to certain operators in the service sector and how relevant they are in this country. We have a lot of people, a lot of operators who suffer from various restrictions, but we also have people who are today at the forefront — not just nurses and doctors, there are many other service operators — and we should also remember and consider how their protection is done today, and whether anyone is interested in it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u60	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u61	Mr President! Mrs Kyllönen raised a very important issue, but this is precisely the fact that when vaccines enter the country extremely badly, we have, for example, first responders in the field without vaccination. However, they are on emergency duty, but they have not been vaccinated. Paramedics are vaccinated but not firemen who act in that first response, so in that respect this is a wide-ranging issue. But I would like to return to this excellent speech by Mr Zyskowicz on fundamental rights and their consideration. I read a blog article published yesterday. Professor Sami Pihlström had written a very good article on the Etikka.fi website, which deals specifically with these fundamental rights and their relationship, which was a very welcome point of view for this debate. In fact, this ethical aspect of it has not been considered in any way, since, of course, each person is perhaps pursuing what he hears most. But in this context I would like to make a strong appeal to the government once again that now that these restrictions are coming and there are even more of them — so that we even have to limit the employment rights of health workers — then this limit must not be leaked. We must get a proposal from the government that the condition of entering Finland must be a negative disease test or a certificate of disease and compulsory testing here. It is a totally unacceptable situation if we go very far to restrict the fundamental rights of people and if this is something that cannot be put right. In order for these restrictive measures to work, it requires that people comply with them. And when there is that fatigue anyway, if they are still perceived as illogical, unjust, this goes right into the wall. So I now hope that the government will take a very firm stance here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u62	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u63	Irade fru talman! Vi diskuterar ox ekoutskottets betankande till regeringens lagförslag om att stänga restaurangerna i tre veckors tid i de sjukårdsdistrikt som är i accommodations- eller spridningsfasen. Vi har också behandlat det ärendet i grundlagsutskottet, vi har granskat om det är ödvändigt och har ett enhälligt utlåtande till ekonomiutskottet på bass av de sakkunniga som vi har hört. Det är viktigt att constatera att det gäller bara tre veckor, inte över TVå månader som i våras. Det är också viktigt att konstatera att den ekonomiska kommenttionen måste vara tillräcklig för de företagare som drabbas av den raus stangningen. Det är alltid svårt att hit en optimal linjedragning som blir helt rättvis, men arv kan man undertryka att det arv gäller bara i tre veckor. Men det är svårt att göra avvägningar så att det inte drabbar också sådana företag där det inte finns någon smittspridning. Vill man komma åt en karaokebar i en storstad så finns det också risk att man kommer åt en lunchrestaurang på en bensinstation i glesbygden där inga smittfall har uppkommit. Men det ox gäller som sagt tre veckor nu. Det ox, ärade fru talman, gäller också på Åland, precis som i våras. Det är självklart att ekonomisk compensation också måste gå till dragbade företag på Åland när det tödpaket sedan kommenter att koma till riksdagen. Normalt är restaurant och regleringen av restaurant och förplägnadsrörelser åländsk behörighet enligt självstyrelselagen. Det är att man inte hörde Ålands landskapsregering när regeringen beredde den bull propositionen till riksdagen, aven om tidtabellen var mycket snabb. Vi har dock i riksdagen hört landskapsregeringen både i grundlagsutskottet och ekoutskottet, och landskapsregeringen stöder förslaget att stanga restaurangerna för tre veckors tid på Åland. Ålands landskapsregering lyfter upp några frågetecken gällande behörighetsfördelning i förhållande till Ålands självstyrelse, och är det bara att konstatera att vi är på helt nya vatten under pandemic, och de verktyg som nu används har aldrig tidigare använts. Smittskydd och undantagstillstånd är enligt självstyrelselagen rikets behörighet. Ålands lagting har inte öjlighet att stänga restauranterna, Vilket Ålands landskapsregering bedömer att behövs på Åland nu då coronalläget för tilfället är allvarligt också på Åland. Det är ändå viktigt att grundlags- och ekonomiutskottet har begärt utlåtanden av Ålands landskapsregering och hört Åland i det rau, Vilket vi har gjort. Då pandemic är över finns sedan behov att grundligt gå igenom också undantagstillstånd och bradskapslag, hur det har fungerat i förhållande till Ålands självstyrelselag. Det var någonting som grundlagsutskottet redan slog fast år 2011 men som har blivit ogjort tills i dag. [PresidentAnuVehviläinen : Joint motion. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u66	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u67	Madam President! In conclusion, I would like to say that, in the opinion of the Assembly, the right to buy out wines should be allowed for restaurants, VAT should be reduced by at least 10 percentage points to 14%, and the government should continue to act in such a way that this matter of lay-off between workers and employers can be dealt with in a rapid procedure. This would be in the interests of both workers and employers. I wonder a little about the Government’s sniveling attitude towards the sale of wines at the same time as the state company Alko is making record profits and making record sales. So it is allowed to sell, but not to private restaurant entrepreneurs, and I think this is wrong and should be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u68	Congressman Holopainen's Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u69	Thank you, Mr President. There has been much discussion here about the need for sufficiently precise restrictions. It should be noted that they must also act proactively. So, of course, the fact that we have been in this situation for so long, where the supply chains of bars have also been possible, even though the capacity of intensive care here is beginning to be met in some places, is not, of course, a situation that should be pursued, but should now also be considered in the direction that we can easily close such situations and facilities, if the situation continues. Of course, then, it will protect our traders more widely that these supply chains can be closed down. However, not all of this current capacity is working, and this 50 % initially proposed by STM would certainly have been a more effective solution. On the basis of quite a number of observations, this current legislation allows quite a large number of customers, or it may of course be that not all control and control resources have been able to quite adequately target their monitoring. But the other side of this issue, in terms of precision, is that we hope that there will then be an immediate means of achieving an increase in our infection rates in East Helsinki, so it will be possible to tackle the fact that such facilities will also be caught in time, or if there are rags in tourist centres, it will also be possible to tackle them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u70	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u71	Madam President! I understand that no one here in the debate or in the committee has disagreed with the need for this proposal, but there have also been many good proposals here to make this even better. Some journalist described the opposition’s proposals as ‘colored alternatives’,but I think that they are particularly pragmatic and moderate,in terms of how the restaurant entrepreneurs This alcohol outflow, which has been mentioned here, but which does not seem to be answered in any context: was it last week, when we asked a very clear question about this also during Question Time, but the ministers did not care to answer it in just one word? Without further ado, I am in favour of a representative A performance by Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u72	The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and this matter are now suspended for 5 minutes. The sitting will be resumed at 3:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u73	The sitting adjourned at 3 p.m. and the third item on the agenda are now resumed. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u74	Madam President! I will table an amendment in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u75	President! I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u76	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a change in line with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u77	Mr President! I support Mr Kauma's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u78	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for an addendum to protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u79	Mr President! I support Mr Kauma's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u80	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u81	Madam President! This proposal therefore proposes a temporary amendment of the Sickness Act to include provisions on the reimbursement of the vaccination measure to protect against corona disease. The Government proposes that the amount of compensation should be EUR 10. Well, this proposal is very much to be welcomed. It is important to involve occupational health care in the treatment of the corona crisis, because it is really important that we achieve adequate vaccination coverage as effectively as possible. But the central issue of this proposal is that level of compensation, and an objection has been included in this report, and I would like to inform you that our parliamentary group supports this objection. We do not have an actual member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and that is why, Madam President, I am also taking the floor. The expert reports have shown that this level of reimbursement of the costs of vaccination is too low and there is a risk that employers will not organise vaccination as part of occupational health care, because part of the costs would be borne by the employer and would not allow for a sufficiently effective vaccination rate. That is why I really support this objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u82	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 5/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-05-ps-19.u83	Madam President! Here too, I would like to comment on the fact that there is a unanimous proposal here and a very good proposal which proposes to extend the temporary derogations to the Unemployment Protection Act because of this corona epidemic. In this respect, some laws will be extended until the end of June, including this increase in the unemployment benefit component and mobility grants, which are important and good. Of these, I would just say that I think it would be good if the government had an internal debate on whether these proposals could be extended further. This is not just a question of the flexibility that is needed at the time of the interest rate, but this increase in the element of protection can lower the incentives to accept work and thus help to get away with work, so I would like to see more permanent changes being made in the future. In this context, I would just like to point out that, in the case of lay-offs, we now need the flexible regulations that were in force in the past. They too would be necessary in this situation.
