ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the large committee, SuVM 1/2021 vp, on the basis of the report. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 October 2021. In the debate, supported by Jani Mäkelä Ritva Elomaa, Parliament has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections 1, Sinuhe Wallinheimo Ville Kauunto has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections 2 and Peter Östman Sari Essayah has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u2	Mr Mäkelä's proposal is put to the vote against Peter Östman's proposal, then against Sinuhe Wallinheim's proposal, and finally against the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u4	Thank you, Mr President. We're men or women. Men and women are different, and the status of communities and societies also varies. In many cases, Finland is a model country for equality. We've been, and we're progressive... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u7	Thank you. — I would like to say that there are seven requests for the floor and that this sitting will end on 13.30 p.m. The speeches to be made by then on this matter can be used, but then we shall move on to a later sitting. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u8	Mr President! Let us use short and concise speeches and I am sure we will get this to the end. I would like to thank Mr Aittakumpu for this proposal. Perhaps I would have liked the Minister for Gender Equality to be present on this issue of equality. It would have been very important and interesting to hear him on this matter, and Mr Koponen and I have considered a number of questions for him here. There was also mention of street violence, and there is another point that we should learn from, namely the situation in Sweden. It would be a great deal of work for us to do as far as the development is concerned to ensure that the same mistakes are not repeated around here. It is all in itself to be welcomed in this proposal that more attention should be paid to the sexual violence experienced by women, not just to attention, but also to appropriate and effective solutions. But this street violence as a phenomenon is much greater, given the Nordic countries, and that is why we would have been justified and a little bit in need of a minister to deal with this issue, but we hope that the message will be received here. In any case, the proposal seems justified and, in itself, draws attention to the right issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u9	Thank you. — Mr Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u10	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. Mrs Aittampu said that she opened this important debate and raised some very important points which have also been raised in committee in connection with this debate. This is indeed a question of extending the work of the Ombudsman for Equality to include reporting on violence against women. I drew attention in the report to the fact that these tasks cover all domestic violence, including when it is directed at non-women, that is, even when it is directed at men and children. I also think this is important, because unfortunately, it is surprisingly common for women to target violence against men in families, and this must also be reported and taken into account. Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of violence against older people, which is often domestic violence. For example, a child who is substance abuser or a grandchild who mistreats or abuses elderly people may often be at times. This violence can be physical or mental, it can be economic and social. Often, many elderly people do not want to, or even really can, tell about what they are experiencing. The victim may feel guilty and, above all, ashamed of the event that this is happening in the family circle. It is therefore important that this violence against older people, who are also mostly women, because women live longer and are more often subjected to this violence in old age, should also be taken into account and reported in order to address it more effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u11	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u12	Thank you, Mr President. This is certainly a well-founded proposal, but now that we are talking about legislation on the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, I would like to say a few words about the feelings and debates on equality in Finland today. About a year ago, when the National Theatre was coming to the premiere of a play entitled ‘My All Mother’,thetransactors drew attention to the fact that in this case,thetrans woman is acting as a man,and this was a problem of equality. Instead, I find it a problem that without going into the matter at all, theatre director Mika Myllyaho announced that at least the pre-shows will be moved and the actor will be replaced. After further rounds of discussion, it became apparent that the attention of these trans activists was based on a misunderstanding. The film was not based on a film classic, which was about a trans woman, but on a drama arrangement in which this main character was not a trans woman but a transvestite. Are we really in a situation in Finland where, for example, the Director General of the National Theatre is no longer required to have any discretion? It is enough for some of the people of the oppressed minority — whom the trans-humans are quite unquestionably — to raise the problem, then the Director-General of such a national institution must throw himself on his back, apologize and announce that the corrections will be made before he is sufficiently familiar with the matter to know that there is a misunderstanding? Another more up-to-date example is that at the University of Helsinki students arranged a freshman meeting and a German exchange student, after looking at the video from the event, misunderstood the situation, thought that the African Star event was about slave owners and slaves. I mean, there was a misunderstanding. Nevertheless, the University of Helsinki threw itself on its back and apologized — even though the whole thing was based on a misunderstanding. I hope that at least the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman will not favour such an unhealthy development in his work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u13	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u14	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz gave a very strong and good speech. There has been talk of bullying and violence here today, and in that sense I must thank the government for having indeed drawn up a programme to combat bullying and violence, in which the opposition has also been consulted. It is therefore important that this programme should be put into practice and be able to tackle this vast problem, which is not just one solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u15	Thank you. — Representative Guzenina, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u16	Thank you, Mr President. This is therefore a unanimous report from the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. It is also one of its own equality that solutions are sought together and taken forward together. You'd like to have a little more of that in this room. These statistics on domestic violence in Finland are tragic. 80% of the victims of domestic violence, as Mr Aittakumpu has said, are experienced by women, and there is also a huge amount of unreported domestic violence. For example, as Mr Räsänen said here, violence against men and violence against children are often hidden. You may have noticed that a report was published this week by the Federation of Child Welfare. It's a very sad result. It showed that there has been an increase in discipline against children. Discipline violence is seen as less harmful than before. As many as 14 per cent of those who responded to the questionnaire considered that discipline violence was acceptable, and as much as 44 per cent admitted that they had used a form of discipline violence, and this certainly requires a broader debate in this society. If children are not protected in their own families, how can they trust the future ahead? This is an extremely important debate which should take place more widely.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u17	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u18	Mr President! We are having a very important and valuable debate when we talk about the work of the Ombudsman for Equality and also about this legislative development that is currently taking place. First of all, it is good to recognise, through basic concepts, that equality and equality do not mean similarity, similarity, but specifically emphasises the right to be different. That is the point when we talk about equality in Finnish society. Often this understanding is clouded that we have a genuine right to be different in most different ways, in the ways that each of us sees as essential to himself and his own identity. The second point that Mr Aittakumpu has repeatedly raised here at the beginning, and which was also supplemented by Mr Guzenina here, is this domestic violence, which is to a large extent directed specifically at women. Above all, it is reasonable to see that sexual violence in sexual crimes, which is in societies, is mostly within the family. That is the shocking point. It must be eradicated everywhere, but it is also very reasonable to recognize that it is violence within the family circle and is directed against women. Mr President! Finland has been one of the most important players since the Istanbul Convention, through the Council of Europe, has now been adopted at European level as a central legal basis and a standard basis aimed specifically at eradicating violence against women in the world. In this respect, the idea that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman should also focus heavily on this violence against women is very well founded, especially since, at European level, this has now become a very strong challenge. We have extreme right-wing phenomena, we have an ideological challenge to the Istanbul Treaty and what is most shocking is the Istanbul Treaty and Turkey is withdrawing from it. In such a way, this is a big issue that Finland is as much in favour of highlighting the importance of this issue in the domestic context as in the international debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u19	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u20	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal is to be welcomed, and this has indeed been done in good cooperation. Indeed, I would like to thank Mrs Aittakummu for her in-depth analysis. This is exactly what Mrs Aittakumpu has just mentioned, and it is extremely important that we tackle these problems. Indeed, the position of women, especially in these situations, is quite wrong. And often, as Aittakumpu also pointed out, alcohol plays a large part in these, and alcohol is accused of these — which is right in itself because it is part of these acts. But, in a way, a certain way, a little bit of the same is added to our eyes at the same time as the other problem, the problem that has been in a sense, which is why we go to that alcohol, whether it is due to low self - esteem or other life - control or other difficulties, whether alcohol or not — today could be more of a talk about intoxicants. These are things that should definitely be given a lot of shots, because the situation is, as we know, quite often blames it for alcohol, as is often the case. But, on the other hand, we should be able to be such a society that people do not have to start using drugs to grieve. But they often... Of course, some are addicted to these substances, but some are actually just being alone or something else, making it feel a little better, so to speak, when you are under the influence of the intoxicants. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u21	Thank you. — Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-29-ps-128.u22	Mr President! I could not help asking for the floor. I would like to thank Mr Laakso from a very wise point of view for this whole. The work of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman will be completely impossible if only symptoms are treated. We need to be able to focus on where the root causes are. It would be hoped that every municipality would be aware, for example, of the importance of adequate access to substance abuse and mental health services — but on a low threshold, so that, at a time when a person experiences despair and loneliness, there would be something to reach out to, something to answer, some discussion that would help to overcome the worst stage. These are extremely important, the big questions that affect our society as a whole: where does nausea come from, and how do we deal with that root cause and deal with these problems in that way?
