ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by Anna-Kaisa Ikonen and others. the intermediate issue of the reform of social and health services. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 1 June 2021. In the debate, Anna-Kaisa Ikonen, supported by Arja Juvonen, has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u2	We are now voting on whether the Government will enjoy the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u3	Now we shall proceed to a brief vote, so I would ask those Members who are not on this narrow voting team to leave this Chamber quietly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 1 June 2021. The debate has been supported by Mrs Lehto Jukka Mäkynen, who has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u5	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u6	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 2 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u7	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This year’s third amending budget is still — and at the same time, it must be said ‘unfortunately’ — an additional budget for the year. Although the common denominator for this amending budget is the interest rate and the additional expenditure that it will entail, I dare say that this will build up the post-interest period. The amending budget will alleviate the harm caused by the interest rate to businesses and children and young people. It will boost growth and advance investment. The most important tool for boosting growth is the reforms under the EU's recovery instrument, Finland's sustainable growth programme, which are now starting. Mr President! The third draft amending budget for the year supplemented the economic policy guidelines for this year, unfortunately with the continuation of the corona pandemic. Last autumn, when the government prepared for this year's economy, the idea was that the corona situation would have been brought under control already this spring. That is why the government, to put it in retrospect, reserved only an additional EUR 500 million reserve for amending budgets for this year to be used for one-off and fiscally mandatory expenditure needs arising from the corona virus situation. I therefore say ‘optimisticly’that the spending limits plannedfor the past year were exceeded by around EUR On the other hand, there was the prospect, as at the moment, that, when the crisis was facilitated, the Finnish economy would turn at least temporarily into a strong growth driven by consumer demand and exports. The persistence of the corona virus situation during the spring and the associated restrictions and support measures have led to a situation in which the spending limits reserve set out last autumn has proved to be too small. That is why it is now being increased by 1.35 billion, or a total of 1.85 billion euros. So it's going to cost the government a lot of money, it's going nowhere. However, this increase in the spending limits reserve is not available for other expenditure. If expenditure is lower, the difference will therefore not be used to increase other expenditure. In addition, the direct cost of health safety related to corona, i.e. testing and vaccination in practice, will be covered as expenditure outside the spending limits, as decided last autumn. And of that interest rate increase, EUR 650 million is earmarked for the transfer to the State Guarantee Fund for the capitalisation of Finnvera Corporation's export guarantee and special guarantee operations. This is also not available for other expenditure. Mr President! This draft amending budget provides for a total increase of EUR 2 billion by EUR 172 million. This includes both expenditure within the spending limits and expenditure outside the spending limits and health expenditure directly related to the corona. The estimate of revenue will be reduced by a total of EUR 185 million. Regrettably, the estimate of tax revenue is also reduced by EUR 235 million, the continuation of the preferential payment scheme, i.e. for the sake of interest rates, and, accordingly, the estimate of miscellaneous revenue is increased by EUR 50 million. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the need for net government borrowing will increase by around EUR 2 billion 357 million and the net borrowing of the current year will now be estimated at around EUR 14.4 billion. Mr President! Debt concerns me as much as citizens and this whole Parliament. All these items of expenditure, which I am presenting here, are one-off, and the needs will be removed when we get rid of the interest rate. Fortunately, we have done much better than many other countries. In order to pay the debt, we need spending discipline, even a little tax evasion, but above all growth-enhancing reforms and, above all, better employment. We have already discussed government spending cuts here, and tax solutions will be clear in the autumn. However, many of the more important are employment-enhancing reforms that are already being prepared, business investment capacity and a competitive investment environment, and measures to increase productivity and the supply of skilled labour, including labour and education migration. In my own work as Minister of Finance, I intend to focus on catching up with strong growth after the interest rate. It requires the courage of decision-makers and lobbying organisations to reform, to give companies and owners the opportunity to become prosperous and thus to invest and to build confidence in young people, including their families. That is why, Mr President, I would like to highlight the fact that the amending budget is launching an EU-funded programme for sustainable growth in Finland. Reforms and investments are now being launched by the so-called pre-financing rate. I would like to highlight in particular the 45 million increase in research and development for the Academy of Finland. On the other hand, from the point of view of people's everyday life, I would like to highlight the need to replace oil heating with renewable heat sources and support for the construction of charging and distribution points for electric and biogas cars. Work will also be carried out to support social welfare reform in the areas where treatment queues are being dismantled. After all, the Government sent Finland's final recovery and recovery programme to the Commission at the end of May a few days ago, and we expect approval within a few months. On the basis of a public debate, many have been able to conclude that the EU is sending billions to different countries and then each spends the money as it seems to be best. That is not the case. I recommend that we take a look at our 500-page plan which was sent to the Commission. It contains detailed reports on what money is spent on and what the reforms are aiming for, as well as indicators for milestones and final targets. Funding will come to all Member States after their own objectives have been achieved. If the targets are not met, investment will remain a burden on our own debt-taking and on other countries' own debt-taking. That is why we must succeed. Mr President! Of course, there are other important issues in the post-interest period than sustainable economic growth. Social sustainability must also be fostered. This will be promoted in the amending budget by an investment of EUR 111 million in interest rate restrictions, in reality, to minimise the harm suffered by children and young people and their damage. There's a lot of problems. There has been a lack of learning and deep loneliness. Service debt has been incurred in mental health and child welfare services. These need to be corrected and, at the same time, increased preventive support for both families and parents, whose own problems — their own parents ’ problems — can undermine the good lives of their children. There are also many regional differences in the effects of interest rates, and the main needs are where distance learning and restrictions on hobbies have been the most long-term and recurring. This additional funding, well over 100 million, is directed to municipalities through state subsidies from the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Speaking of municipalities, Mr President, it should be remembered that the municipalities have also received general support over the past year to deal with the problems of interest rates. It is also intended to care for children, young people and families. It is absolutely necessary to tailor support to the needs of each municipality and to family situations. Municipalities do not have to wait for this new additional funding to take action either. I believe that it is necessary to monitor and assess the effectiveness and relevance of this funding. Mr President! This third amending budget for 2021 is an amending budget for the corona year, and I very much hope that this will be the last in this category of measure. Progress in vaccinations and a strong turnaround in the global economy and Finland in the economic forecasts provide strong support and promise that economic policy can also look at post-column reforms. After the interest rate, these reforms are needed for the future and for the future generation. The new era is an opportunity for us to seize the opportunities that the world has opened up for us. It requires us to take effective action to promote economic growth, employment, investment and productivity. After the interest rate, economic resources must be raised to a level that is consistent with the financial needs of sustainable social development and the welfare society, but also with sound public finances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u8	At this stage, I will not give you any answers, but we will take two speeches that have been asked in advance. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Krista Kiuru, we need to talk again. At the time, you said — or, in fact, reports and regulations say — that restrictions must be lifted as soon as they are not necessary. This has not been done. Nearly 80,000 people working in the restaurant industry and their families expect the rules to be adhered to. Who's holding on to them, if not the Minister? Yes, yes, we understand very well that we go ahead of health, but now it seems that this is no longer the case. There has been a rapid reduction in the number of infections, which means that there is also a need to speed up the dismantling of legislation. You say that your restrictive measures have reduced the number of infections, but would it still be more likely that the reduction in infection would be caused by a change in behaviour in people than by discipline in the restaurant sector? And what if the restaurant isn't the problem, it's the solution? What if the situation is that eating and drinking in controlled areas would be a better idea than celebrating in parks? For example, if five of the most severely restricted regions were allowed to be admitted to 10 p.m. and closed until 11 p.m., 10,000 workers could immediately be called back to work. For many families, the summer would be different when the father and mother could return to work after a long break. The suffering of the families would end. Annika Rönni-Sällinen, President of PAM, will also be able to say the same thing in her blog: ‘The new norm on the working of the restaurant will appear’. ‘Factato the clear. We therefore want to believe that the change is happening very quickly now; that we will have a better summer for Finns. We hope that this is not a matter of principle. Is that right?’ This is written by the entrepreneur, restaurant operator Jyrki Sukula, head of trust on behalf of Tapio Ojanen's employees, a large number of restaurants, entrepreneurs, waitresses and bartenders. Can you hear what the emergency is in the restaurant and tourism sectors? This amending budget will reduce revenue by EUR 185 million. The net borrowing of central government will increase by around EUR 2.4 billion for this year, with a further EUR 14.4 billion for this year. Central government debt is estimated to be around EUR 139.3 billion at the end of this year, which is around 56 per cent of GDP. The increase in expenditure caused by the Korona virus in this proposal is about 600 million — that is, 600 million for the corona, other things. The fourth round of applications for company cost support is also on the table here. That's where I got a call from the film industry. In fact, the most popular cultural offering in Finland is cinemas. Well, you decided, my dear government, that the film industry in Finland will have a cap of 1.8 million. The EU already changed that ceiling to 3 million and finally to 10 million in December. Well, what did they do in Finland? Abstentions were made at the 1.8, which means that Finnkino and Bio Rex, or 80 per cent of the Finnish cinemas, were virtually completely cut out of these subsidies. Is the same limit also for cost support in number four? This means that small cinemas in Seinäjoki, Kajaani, Rovaniemi and Riihimäki, which are part of a larger company, cannot continue. Then, when you look at travel restrictions, the draft legislation on travel restrictions prepared by the STM received very strong criticism and is not in line with the EU's recommendations. The bill collected 81 statements, many of which are very critical. So this goes much further than other EU recommendations. The Ministry of Justice has also been very critical of this proposal. Mr President, were the speeches five minutes or ten minutes? [The President :7! ] Yes, Mr President, this proposal by you to restrict tourism and travel would, in fact, now mean that travel restrictions would be tightened up and unnecessarily prolonged, even though the purpose of the law was to facilitate tourism. The extension of the law to spring 22, i.e. more than a year away, is excessive, including the fact that children are required to be tested here. For example, the City of Turku stated in its own opinion that an increase in border testing could jeopardise the sampling of other corona epidemics. Well, in the assembly we have held out that the corona passport, the corona certificate, would be the way to get here. Now we are making a system which is actually putting our entire tourism sector at risk. As I said, the Ministry of Justice has even questioned whether it is proportionate and necessary to restrict the free movement of EU citizens from the green countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u10	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u11	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this presentation. Although Mr Heinonen questioned this, it is a very important question in this amending budget: there are entrepreneurs getting support and everyone else. [TimoHeinonenarvous] Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the amending budget! This is a really big package, which aims to correct the negative effects of the interest rate on society's activities and also to promote exports and overall economic growth. The transport infrastructure will also be invested in creating conditions for the development of business activities. The effects of the interest rate have been visible and continue to be reflected in society’s activities. It is therefore important to emphasise the importance of the draft amending budget and to thank the Government and the Minister for bringing the amending budget to Parliament so that we can correct the problems caused by the interest rate and create a path for a better career in economic growth. Mr President! The third amending budget totals EUR 2.2 billion. The net borrowing of central government in 2021 is approximately 14.4 billion, when at the end of the year the central government debt is estimated to be 139.3 billion and about 56% of gross domestic product, which is indeed the case with large amounts of debt. In the amending budget of 2.2 billion, much of the expenditure is outside the spending limits. In the context of the draft budget for 2021, the Government stated that, due to the uncertainty of the situation, an additional reserve of EUR 500 million for the year 21 will be reserved for one-off and fiscally mandatory expenditure needs arising from the corona virus situation, as the Minister said earlier. Mr President! The continued difficult situation of the corona virus, including the associated restrictions and support measures, has led to a situation in which the above-mentioned reserve of spending limits has proved to be too low. The spending limits reserve will now be increased by EUR 1350 million to the level of EUR 1850 million. Of this EUR 1350 million increase, EUR 650 million has been earmarked for the transfer to the State Guarantee Fund for the capitalisation of Finnvera Corporation's export guarantee and special guarantee operations. And, as the Minister said, if we do not have to spend all this money, it will not be used for anything else. The amending budget consists of approximately 590 million additional expenditure directly related to the corona virus. I would like to list a few of the significant additions: EUR 111 million for children and young people, then capitalised on issues such as the financing of exports, then corona-related expenditure, and then the order mandate of the Border Guard's outposts EUR 120 billion, the first tranche of the Recovery and Recovery Support Facility EUR 100 million. Reduction of the harm caused by Korona to children and young people: EUR 64 million is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture in order to mitigate the effects of the Korona virus situation as part of the package on the well-being of children and young people. Funding aims to offset the effects of the corona virus situation, such as an increase in the learning gap and a deterioration in the well-being of students. EUR 40 million is proposed for primary and basic education and early childhood education, EUR 15 million for upper secondary education, EUR 5 million for vocational education and EUR 4 million for university funding. An important contribution is also made to maintaining educational institutions for liberal education, i.e. an increase of 5 million. To improve access to substance abuse services, 23 million, including the corona virus period, have increased costs or the need for services, EUR 16 million for improving mental health services and EUR 3 million for the prevention of police activities. That's a total of 111 million. Mr President! The recovery package, which has been talked about and discussed a great deal here, has now become the first investment, and it received 17 million. A total of EUR 134.9 million is proposed for employment and skills reforms, of which the financial impact of 2021 is good EUR 30 million. The management guarantee for the Sote package will be promoted. A total of EUR 45 million will be added for digitalisation and the dismantling of service and care debts for this current year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u12	There was a sense of enthusiasm for the debate here, so I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to the debate to stand up and press the V button using the request to speak. — Debatin will be initiated by Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u13	Mr President! This amending budget is really necessary — here there are important, very necessary subsidies for business life, but above all for the well-being of children and young people — because how we succeed in doing this will have an impact on the cost to municipalities and society in the future. That is why we have to go back to the big picture of economic policy. Mr President! Two weeks ago, Mr Orpo, in this Chamber, promised that when the Assembly demands a cut of EUR 1 billion — EUR 1 billion — for next year, you will provide your own option as a list of cuts in Parliament's deliberations. Now you've had more than a month to do this already, where is it? In a week and a half, more than 600,000 people have already voted. Chairman Orpo, are you going to hide from the Finns your options and your cuts over municipal elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u15	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u16	Mr President! First of all, for Lindtman: This is the oldest political trick of all time you are trying to do here, which is to draw attention to the fact that the government is unreasonably taking on debt. This tuning of yours is now a bit like the fact that you government parties have given ten children bags of candy with debt. Then you will find that the money is not enough, and then you will call on the assembly to name the three children who will not be given a bag of candy. This is a ridiculous attempt. [Antti Lindtman requests the reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u17	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u18	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to ask when the Minister for Economic Affairs is there: is this aid for the scrapping of 20 million peat-producing machinery now a question of the scrapping premium? Then the more important question is that now that we have reason to think carefully about how much the state... In practical terms, different responsibilities will be placed on the shoulders of taxpayers: we are already guaranteeing a large number of Euro-support packages and we know that more will certainly be coming, and we already have more than 100 billion hidden European responsibilities. Finland’s responsibilities are one of the largest in Europe. All these exposures and the risks involved should now be reported. There's got to be a line somewhere. And is there a zombie company here... I am thinking here, too, of the fact that Finnvera will be added 650 million. It would be nice to know a little more about where those responsibilities are, because we really have big responsibilities here in Finland at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u19	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u23	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u24	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, congratulations on the appointment of the Minister of Finance. Matti Vanhanen, your predecessor, said in the debate on the interim question last autumn: ‘However, the government must continue to work towards building confidence in Finland. First of all, confidence is enhanced by the fact that state budgeting will return to the spending limits procedure next year.’ That's what he said last fall. Well, this did not happen because you chairmen agreed otherwise. Mr Vanhanen's proposal for a spending limits budget was rejected. I believe that this amending budget is in line with this same formula that, under the pressure of the left, you will accept expenditure increases without making them conditional on the employment reforms that the agreement on the Sipilä Government Programme, which were intended to deal with. It stated that there will be no permanent increases in expenditure until decisions on permanent employment measures are taken. Well, what's the billion to come down to, what did Lindtman refer to? We've counted this. Of our alternative budget, EUR 735 million direct spending savings from spending limits plus next year's cancellation of the social security contributions
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u25	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u26	Mr President! The Coalition Party is talking here about unreasoning debt. At the same time, it will be marked by British Conservatives under the leadership of Boris Johnson or Angela Merkel, the German Christian Democrats who, in their own countries, have been even more absurd, to use your term, engaged in debt policy. In fact, this kind of neokeynesianism has now taken over European countries, that it is considered reasonable to invest in keeping the wheels rolling and then aim for rapid, rapid growth, which will be able to compensate for these losses. Minister Saarikko rightly stressed this, that we must now strive for real growth and an increase in employment and employment rates, and that is the way in which Finland will get through this. At the same time, attention must be paid to the introduction of sufficiently long-term sovereign debt under the current conditions, which will compensate for this debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u27	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u28	Madam President! For ten years now, the state has revived with two hands without catching up to this sustainability gap at all. When Mr Koskinen said that things were going worse elsewhere than we were, a few chapters: In ten years, the central government debt has almost doubled by the end of 19, by 106 billion, and this was before the corona. Well, now 2021 net borrowing amounted to 33 billion, raising its debt to about 140 billion. The problem with Finland is that this crisis has come and people are trying to get out of it, talking about the same old thing, that now that public money is being sown, yes, listen, that growth will soon come and soon start and it will take care of its sustainability deficit. This is not how it's gonna happen. So do you really have the means, Minister Saarikko, to balance this public finances? Of course we understand that because of the interest rate certain things have to be fixed and fixed now, but this situation is disastrous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u29	Congressman Kari, Emma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u30	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for bringing this package here in the Chamber. This year has been very heavy for many in this country. Children and young people, in particular, have had to bear an unreasonably high burden on the consequences of corona pandemic, and children and young people are now worse off than before the crisis. Corona pandemic has already left its mark. This package will make it possible to combat problems before they get too big. There's been a lot of talk of trust here. I personally think that it is precisely the fact that we all have a clear alternative to what is genuinely being presented and, in the same way as Mr Lindtman, I am left a little confused about what it is. We have been asked here to have cut lists of almost EUR 1 billion, and the Coalition Party has promised to bring its own list here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u31	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u32	Mr President! It is very important that this government in this amending budget invests, among other things, in the well-being of children and young people. But what I am really worried about now, President, is that municipalists are approaching, and even though we have asked the assembly very properly here, when they have required a billion dollars in savings, that what this list is — two weeks ago I was in this Chamber and asked this question together with many other representatives — we have not received an answer. But, Congressman Orpo, you promised. You promised me two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u35	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u36	Mr President! I think it's the first time the left side of the gym has ever suspected that the coalition can't make surgical lists. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u41	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u42	Mr President! Consumers have accumulated savings during the pandemic period, some of which are released rapidly for consumption. Exports and investments are recovering as a result of the global growth outlook. The amending budget, which is appropriate to this situation, also includes a number of measures to support economic growth. The funds will be directed, inter alia, to support measures to address skills gaps, to the whole of continuous learning, to finance the Academy of Finland and to increase Business Finland's authorisation to award key sectors. It is also important to support peat producers, peat entrepreneurs, to help the peat sector adapt to change. The funds will be directed, among other things, to support the retraining of peat entrepreneurs and to the study on the further use of peat production sites.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u43	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u44	Madam President! As many of my fellow Members have said, this year's amending budget will increase the central government debt by EUR 15 billion and will rise to almost EUR 140 billion at the end of the year. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament calls for a responsible and sustainable economic policy and, in order to strengthen public finances, real employment measures are expected from the government, i.e. real employment measures. Firstly, the competitiveness of export companies should be better taken care of than is currently the case. Secondly, the incentives to work must be improved in such a way that it is always worthwhile to accept work. And more flexibility and local reconciliation are needed in the labour market. Where are these measures, Minister for Finance and the Government?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u45	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u46	Mr President! The opposition seems to have already forgotten the corona, but we haven't. The most important thing now is to combat the social suffering caused by the corona crisis and to ensure economic recovery. That is why the amending budget of this government is tackling the learning debt of the corona for children and young people. The impact of the interest rate will be mitigated by a total of more than EUR 100 million in support packages for children and young people, most of which will be targeted at early childhood education and schools. Throughout the corona crisis, the left has stressed that the mistakes of the recession in the 1990s must not be repeated, and it is very important that the government is now determined to dismantle the care debt, mental health debt and learning debt left by the corona. People's well-being is also a prerequisite for economic recovery and longer-term sustainability and also for the employment you call for in the opposition. Now we're gonna do the first ones, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u47	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u48	Mr President! Mr Saarikko has now misunderstood something: if Finland writes several hundred pages to the EU about where it wants to spend the recovery money, it would in some way make it difficult to use the recovery money from other countries and limit it. No, it does limit the use of Finnish money and no one else. However, the fact is that if we had not gone into this recovery package, we could at once tell three of those sums of money that will be used for that recovery, and we could use the money the way we want it to be. In this package, we are paying for the recovery of our rival countries. There would be no need to support the abandonment of oil heating if the government were not, for ideological reasons, driving down oil heating. The same applies to peat production: there would be no need for aid to stop peat production if the government, with the support of the centre, had not decided to drive down the peat’s energy use. Entrepreneurs don't want any support, they want to work. You're taking that job away from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u49	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u50	Irade the Talman! There was talk of a disastrous economic situation. However, we may have to bear in mind that our economy has perhaps done the best in Europe. If this is catastrophic — and it is very difficult, it is difficult — then we must remember, however, that in relation to others we have done well. They're crossing the frame. It's never a good thing. But, in this situation, it is certainly appropriate to question the Convention's medicines, including the reduction of 335 million in old-age services and the cuts in future pensions for those who are currently unemployed, which is hardly proportionate in this situation either. Employment measures have been taken. Of course, the fact that only some are cane-like, some are carrot-like, is a value choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u51	At this point, I will give two ministerial speeches. There are other ministers who can speak, but I will not give too many at once, but Minister Saarikko, 2 minutes, and Lintilä, 2 minutes, and then again representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u52	Mr President! In my speech, I would first of all like to draw Mr Mykkänen's attention to confidence and the way in which it is directed towards the Finnish economy. The question is quite right. Not only are we primarily responsible to our own citizens for the rational use of tax euros, but we are also part of the international economy and the reality of the financial markets, and we must continue to remain a reliable player. I therefore list to you, Mr Mykkänen, five points which, in my opinion, increase confidence in the Finnish economy and the economic policy of this government. First of all, as paragraph 1, we will retain these solutions, which, as it were, include plans for the coming two-year period for the final stages of this government, within the EU's 3% deficit criteria. As item 2, social reform is the most important structural reform that will also have an impact on the economy in the long term. In paragraph 3, Mr Mykkänen and others, ladies and gentlemen, a well-managed interest rate has also been a good economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u58	Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u59	Madam President! This is the charge that the government is sowing money. Then I guess I'll have to raise my hand up as a sign. I calculated that my own portfolio will be worth about 1.2 billion of this total. But when you go through this, there will be a recovery, recovery facility of 96 million, Business Finland's RD funding of 62 million. Then there is Finnvera 650 million, which is also mentioned here. It is not a concrete spending of money, it is a provision that Finnvera is able to work. This will safeguard the Finnish shipbuilding industry. There is currently a 7 billion order book, and this is how it will be secured. Support for peat entrepreneurs 60 million, that 20 is for equipment; cost support for 4 200 million; battery sector funding, for example, to provide Vaasa's contribution, 40 million; night train traffic, which came up here, has a very big impact on our factory in Omanmäki; innovation support for shipbuilding. These will amount to around 1.2 billion from this additional budget. I wouldn't be ready to take anything out of here. They all have an impact in support of Finnish entrepreneurship, industry and jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u60	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u61	Madam President! It is a little sad and confusing that, first, the Social Democrats share billions and then they shout here that cuts in education, day care and care for the elderly are being made. You are taking on an additional EUR 2.4 billion here and a total of EUR 14.4 billion this year. One of the targets you found is where you cut. You're cutting Minister Kurvise out of science. It was the only place you could think of to operate. The therapy guarantee — no money was found for this either. Last week, Parliament voted for a therapeutic guarantee: 88 to 62 did not come with a therapeutic guarantee. If, Minister Ohio, the Greens had voted in favour of a therapeutic guarantee, we would have a therapeutic guarantee in this country now coming and soon in force and we would be able to help these young people who have suffered the most from the corona.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u62	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u63	Mr President! The president, Mr Orpo, asked if there was any doubt as to whether the assembly could make the operating lists. When I listened to Mr Mykkänen’s speech, I doubt it even more. So now you are saying that look at the alternative budget for last year or this year. First of all, it's for this year, but if we forget about it, you'll just take the savings. What about the extra expenses you put forward, the therapy guarantee, Mr Heinonen? What about the hundreds of millions of increases in education or research, product development, care for the elderly — have you given them up? Mr. Heinonen, have you given up the therapy guarantee? And if we forget that too, ladies and gentlemen, half of your so-called savings are based on a reduction in care expenditure by raising the household allowance. Congressman Mykkänen, do you think it's the VM's calculation now? Ladies and gentlemen, the least you could do would be to publish now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u64	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u65	Mr President! Of course, next time you can invite us to join the negotiations, then you can make savings, since it is only with our help that it is possible. Of these, we have 11 points from our alternative budget for spending limits that will also be in force in the next few years in your frameworks. There is no savings related to the household allowance for care expenditure. It does not have earnings-related pension accruals because it is not spending limits-related expenditure. But these are those on your bottoms, and saving them will bring EUR 735 million below the spending limits level, and that would leave you with just a few hundred million more over next year, which will take some of the cost of social change away. Minister Saarikko, the cost of social change in 2023 could still be kept there, and yet, on our list, it would be possible to get to the spending limits level you presented by Vanhanen. But now, of course, the biggest thing is that of course we would do much more in the budget, as we did in the published alternative budget. Then we'd get revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u66	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u67	Madam President! I would like to make a somewhat broader speech on fiscal policy. There has been reference here to Keynes and post-keyness, and he has certainly never meant to revive both the downturn and the boom season, and there is little danger that, when the world economy starts to move, it will continue to revive, and then, in the traditional view of the Keynesian, fiscal policy should be tightened up. Today, too, there was news of the rise in inflation in the United States to 4% and 2% in the euro area, and there is therefore some concern about whether too much is being revived. What is the government's view that if inflation starts to rise, how will it be reacted to, and is there any fear that fiscal policy will be too light?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u69	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u70	Mr President! I, on the other hand, want to go a little deeper into this amending budget. Half the kids in high school say they can't do without support. One third are those who have increased in number in the queue of youth politicians, and in Espoo, for example, the number of people seeking help from youth politicians has increased by 40 per cent. This amending budget, and in particular investment in children and young people, is extremely necessary and important and urgent at this point so that they can make use of the municipalities in the autumn. I would like to ask the assembly, these investments in children and young people and education are those that you do not support, because the municipalities seem to be faced with unexpected challenges in getting this money, which comes from the state, into precisely these measures. I hope that these will eventually end up there in the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u71	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u72	Mr President! Indeed, a few words about this amending budget are sometimes in order. As has already been pointed out here, the use of energy peat is declining sharply and, of course, production. In this proposal, an amending budget is provided for the scrapping of peat production machinery and subsidies for those who give up peat production. According to the proposal, this funding is EUR 200,000 per entrepreneur. I would like to ask the Minister where this chapter was taken from. Is it pulled out of the hat, so to speak? Since production is quite large-scale, some feel that this kind of sum may seem large, but given the nature of its industry this is inadequate. I would also like to ask: does the government have a plan on how to manage heating for over a million Finns in the winter of 2023? Although the use of peat is decreasing, it will be significantly needed,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u73	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u74	Mr President! It has been a very difficult time, and families have had a difficult time. There is stress, loneliness, unemployment, layoffs and mental health problems, and problems with parenthood and relationships have raised their minds. The operation of basic health care services for young people and children has become difficult in counselling centres, school health care and student care, as resources have had to be transferred elsewhere. Youth facilities have been closed, there has been a break in hobbies, and hanging out with friends has been very difficult when school has not always been available. In this light, it is excellent that the government invests in young people and children a package of 111 million, including 16 million in mental health and 23 million in substance abuse services. Now that these savings have been cut off, even if the Coalition Party is ready to save?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u75	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u76	Madam President! Just a few months ago, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance promised Parliament that next year we would go into the framework. Prior to that, this same government had increased spending limits expenditure by EUR 1400 million per year. And yet you didn't make it to the frame. You crossed them briskly. Well, that overshoot, about a billion and a half, is of course quite a small sum compared to the entire amount of debt that has had to be taken into account during this term of government as a result of the interest rate. But crossing the spending limits is symbolic because it tells us that this government is unable to set priorities. It's so much easier to put money into everything good. I would like to mention, for example, that in the last ten years housing aid expenditure has increased by around one billion and this money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u77	Time. — It is still remembered that one minute is one minute. — And then Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u78	Madam President! It is good that Finnvera is capitalised because it must be prepared for a situation where, however, there are risks on the market and must be able to receive them when they come. What is also important is that our exports go on. Investments in the forest industry are encouraging. But, Mr President, I would like to raise the point when the ministers are present — unfortunately not the Minister of Transport himself: we have come across a phenomenon in Eastern Finland that is extremely harmful. The condition of the lower road network has gone so that my friend, who is a truck contractor and drives wood to factories, went from four trucks to spring packs, à 1000 euros in the same week. So he told me directly, personally after I met him, that their business would end in two weeks if this continued. The reason is the poor condition of the lower road network, because there are no motor graders introduced. There's been an investigation, that system works. I guarantee and underline that if we do it as Esa Halttunen, a crystalline entrepreneur, has presented it and it has been tested, then we do not need additional money for lower gravel,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u79	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u80	Madam President! Minister Saarikko here called for a sensible use of tax euros. And now we have to ask you whether you think it makes sense now to make such a mess that increases costs, to be involved in the EU recovery package that increases taxes and debts and is becoming permanent — see what is being discussed in Italy at the moment. And is it reasonable to put money into climate projects, and as a result more taxes are being taken and more debts are being taken? So this whole package. Do you even have the intention of balancing public finances? Do you even have a goal like this, or do you just have this money-sowing thing going on right now?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u81	Congressman Kiljunen, Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u82	Madam President! The Coalition Party has said here in several speeches and said that the government is operating on children and young people. This is very confusing when we remember that last season, under the leadership of the Coalition Party, there were cuts in education, early childhood education, children and young people. Now this government has changed direction, and now it is continuing to move in line. In this amending budget, Mr Marin's government is also investing EUR 111 million to facilitate situations arising from the interest rate of children and young people, including early childhood education, pre-school and basic education, upper secondary and vocational education and training, and the improvement of mental health and substance abuse services. And at the same time, when the government is clearly investing in families with children, you are still asking for a billion euros of cuts from the government. You yourself have brought a proposal that you would be prepared to cut the housing allowance. However, the Social Barometer 2021, published yesterday, states that a clear majority of social leaders,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u83	I really appeal to you to look at the clock and try to get what you have to say for a minute. — Mr Eestilä will now give an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u84	Or at least try to show me. — Thank you, Mr President. This is a very strong déjà-vu experience, because at the time, when 20 years ago the city of Iisalme received a large bag of money due to the state’s arrhythmia, all the money went like a shot in the budget and it was not recovered over the years. Now you are doing the same thing when you look at all these paragraphs in the sections. I would ask you, Minister of Finance, if you would focus on this question. Minister of Finance, I have a question!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u85	Congressman Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u86	Madam President! On economic policy, I'd like to say a few words. This line, which is now being called for here by the Coalition Party and by Mr Orpo — we know exactly what it led to following the previous financial crisis in Europe, in the world and here in Finland. Our growth was significantly delayed and we continue to pay the debt resulting from the nausea. What is essential is certainly that we should not make these mistakes now. Extortion of fiscal policy too early is one such thing. I am sure that this situation will be followed by the government. There has also been talk of debt and deficit. It has to be said that the Finns of Finland, especially the Coalition Party, have played a key role in increasing this deficit and debt over the past ten years. I am absolutely sure that the promotion of growth, employment and exports will not take place free of charge and without investment. And I am sure that the coalition also knows and understands this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u87	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u88	Mr President! I have a suspicion that the left-wing government does not want to cut anything from housing investors, because through housing investors there is so much money in their organisation and electoral budgets that there is nothing to take from there. As far as sticking to the framework is concerned, the Finns of Peru gave a perfectly clear solution to how to stay in the framework. Only half of development aid would have to be cut, and two thirds would have already been made to find the other savings quite easily. As far as these recovery plans from other countries are concerned, as Minister Saarikko said, there will be civil pay, increased child benefit, support for traditional industries, lower taxes and so on, while Finland spends money on green transitions and climate mobilization.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u89	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say to the previous speaker that there may not be any other party in this Chamber that has actually put forward proposals to reduce the profits of housing investors, which has opened up discussions on the rent ceiling. I have not heard such openings from any party other than the Left Alliance. You do not really want to get at the investors' profits in any way on that side of the hall either. This is a debate that could perhaps be held here some other time. But now that we are discussing this amending budget, I would like to say that once we have underestimated this green growth that we are starting with stimulus funds, that is where the employment we hope will come from in Finland. This transition to a low-carbon society, also investing in continuous learning and the dismantling of treatment lines — these are all good post-corona recovery policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u91	At this stage, two ministerial statements: Mr Kurvinen, 2 minutes, followed by Mr Saarikko, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u92	Madam President! First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Heinos when he spoke here about the science cuts, the research cuts. I would like to point out very strongly that during this parliamentary and government term there will be a strong advantage in investing in research and higher education, even if we now have to make some bad savings for the rest of the period. I invite the Coalition Party and all the other opposition parties to join in the parliamentary work so that the funding for research and development can reach an agreement that goes beyond the parliamentary term. Mr President! Among other things, Mrs Kiljunen and Mr Hopsu have described what this corona crisis has caused children and young people when they have been away from normal education and hobbies have been taking a break. We adults are able to corrode for a year or two, but in childhood, in youth, that year or two is a really long time. It is, of course, a question of humanity, of human values, but also of economic policy. Every lost, marginalised child and young person is a huge cost to this society. We cannot afford to lose any children or young people, and I therefore hope that the opposition will also understand the efforts made in this amending budget for children and young people. From the Ministry of Education sector — when Minister Saramo is not present — I will tell you about the efforts. EUR 65 million is being invested in this so-called package of children and young people, starting from pre-school education and early childhood education, to the second stage. 40 million in early childhood education, pre-school and basic education, 15 million in upper secondary school education, 5 million in vocational education and 5 million in free education. In addition to that, from my own sector, I'm going to tell you about helping college students. They have also had a very heavy year and the problems of coping have increased. There is a package of 6 million for university students: 4 million for the supplementary budget, 2 million for the other appropriations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u93	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u94	Mr President! In particular, Mr Eestilä, this amending budget includes one-off expenditure. With all due respect, the interest rate will have a long-term impact, but on this scale we certainly all hope that the amending budgets will be here because it is also a signal that the disease situation, both in us and in the world, will be brought under control. That's right, Congressman. My corner, as it were, was also asking about a bigger trend in international economic policy and concerns about inflation. It's being closely monitored by the Treasury Department. Small Finland alone has little influence on these global economic conditions, but this influence on inflation is primarily the task of the ECB and monetary policy, but yes, I think that we should be cautious and careful about this. But with all this, this amending budget wants to send out a message of growth, as it were, about being at the door on the eve of a new era, about getting caught up in growth. Minister Lintilä's remit, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, is particularly important here, which will strengthen growth and employment. There are measures that we hope will not be needed from a guarantee point of view, but in principle all these things want to ensure that growth is mobilised. It is a bit of a pity with regard to the People’s Party of Finland — a significant number of people are here — and I have been thinking on a large scale about the fact that you have made public at the turn of the week, for example, your view that we would set a wage limit in euro as if it were for decent work-related immigration. It is one of the obstacles to growth if we do not succeed in work-related immigration. We need a skilled workforce, and we also need experts from other parts of the world, experts in international contacts, as part of the reality of our universities, but also farmers, strawberries, the social welfare sector and the transport sector. This Finland doesn't run without these people. That is why it would have been interesting to hear more about this in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u95	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u96	Madam President! Here, in his previous speech before this previous speech, the Minister for Finance, Saarikko, may have given me a rather rosy picture of the state of Finland's public finances. He noted that the policy of this government is stabilising the debt ratio against GDP. Yes, this may happen for one year, but after that, the debt ratio will continue to grow sharply until the 2050s. I think it is important that there is genuine talk in this Chamber that Finland's public finances are currently in a free fall, and that responsibility lies with the government of this country, not with the opposition. Now I ask you, Minister, when we know that it is precisely these decisions which increase revenue, the decisions on employment, that are exhausted:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u97	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u98	Mr President! Now we have to point out to Mr Marttinen: in the Committee on Finance, we have heard a very large number of experts together, and no one has said that Finland's economy or indebtedness would be in a free fall. It is known that this is a difficult situation, but, on the other hand, these massive interventions by the ECB and others know that interest rates are such that we can manage this debt. When we work together wisely to build the foundation for its strong growth and it will then last for a long time, for we will be able to get through this. That does give the public too a very wrong impression, if it is said that this situation would be in a free fall towards the roads of destruction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u99	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u100	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to that performance by Minister Saarikko, for example as regards seasonal work, we put forward last year, the Finnish Parliament Group, that Finnish unemployed people could have kept their unemployment benefit in addition to going to seasonal work. Of course, it would be one of those ways you could face someone. Our view is that it is healthy for public finances to be able to support oneself when, in particular, he stays in the country for a longer time. There are also the results of the studies that people who come here to work may, even at a relatively short stage, be unemployed when they see how generous our social security is. It is a question of the overall public finances. Let me remind you that in Sweden, for example, the coalition is also on the same lines. Of course, it is a different party with you, but it also sees this aspect of public finances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u101	Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u102	Mr President! Politics and economy are always value choices. Here the representatives of the Coalition Party boast that they will be able to make cut lists, while we are dealing with a point where we are making a significant package to save children and young people and close the learning debt. I want to ask you something. Do you support these investments in children and young people? What about the efforts made to address the substance abuse and mental health problems caused by the interest rate? None of you here have supported them out loud. This amending budget is about one-off investments in the post-crisis management of the corona pandemic. Of course, we also need structural change in the economy and employment measures, but we cannot make children pay for this sustainability gap and the pandemic. Children and young people deserve this rescue package of over EUR 100 million, which we are now presenting to them,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u103	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u104	Madam President! I would point out to the previous speaker and others that, as far as I am aware, none of the speakers in the Assembly have criticised what you are putting this money in this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u109	All right, that's it. — Mr Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u110	Mr President! Much has been said about this package of children and young people, and it is very important. We must remember that money was already given to children and young people in the second amending budget, which also included sports and sports, this drop-out phenomenon, 15 million in total. So in addition to this 110 million, there are also 15 million for physical activity. So we invest in children and young people. There are really big challenges at every level. Then, in terms of growth and investment in employment, for example, this investment in the battery industry will produce thousands of jobs in the future, so that there will also be important investments in this amending budget from an employment perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u111	Mr President! It is a bad thing that the government is unable to prioritise expenditure so that it can get into the framework, but even worse is not even doing the necessary employment measures to achieve a long-term economic balance. And now we are living at the point where, with this stimulus around the world, the countries and the companies of those countries that are the most competitive will now be able to cope with this competition. Now, if it had ever been the time to implement the solutions to local reconciliation that I understand the Centre also required before these negotiations on the spending limits, and to make the reforms that encourage unemployment security,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u114	We have had this debate for another hour, so at this point I will only give the ministers the closing remarks, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u115	Madam President! Congressman Sankelo asked me about that turf, where's the $200,000 coming from? It comes from the de minimis rule, which means that 200,000 is the maximum de minimis rule. If it's over it, then we'll have to notify it. It's coming straight from there. What will be warmed up: yes, the peat will continue to play a role, unfortunately perhaps smaller than these days, but then there is certainly an application to add to it. Then here has become a discussion about and given a picture that in this kind — what it was — green hops put money. The investments we have recently come to Finland are actually all investments in the green transition. Everything related to battery technology, the battery cluster, is a purely green transition. The projects on the bioeconomy side are a green transition. Investment in energy, wind power, is a green transition. So don't blame them very much now, because this is the important part that will then also be an export asset for Finland. The world is interested in Finnish energy expertise, actually in knowledge, which takes place in this sector, where it is taken into this kind of green transition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u116	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u117	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Compulsory education and its extension, strengthening employment services, abolishing additional days of unemployment security and strengthening the security of change, reform of continuous learning, increased work-related immigration, transfer of employment services to municipalities and the associated financing model, measures to support the employment of part-time workers — I listed a few elements that will strengthen employment. They strengthen employment, above all, in a way that improves services and also reminds us that work is more than just an economic activity. It strengthens one’s experience of one’s own and the meaning of his life. In addition, there is a commitment that measures to strengthen the impact of public finances of EUR 110 million will be taken shortly. I would like to conclude by emphasising the importance of growth, with all of this in this debate — thanks for the excellent speeches that have been made, ladies and gentlemen. It's not born by itself. We will certainly catch up with the world, but let us not forget our own structural problems, which will also produce a better result in terms of growth. Strengthening productivity, encouraging investment, access to skilled labour, authorisation to become prosperous and active demographic policies, all of this will lead to us succeeding in growth. The second road, as you say, Mr Marttinen, is the road to tax increases and cuts. We will have to make adjustments, and yes, tax-payer decisions will come back in the autumn, but this will not happen without us catching up with growth and strengthening the base of our own economy with companies that dare to employ, companies that dare to invest in new ones. I hope that this line will not be called into question by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u118	Yes, and we will move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Salmonikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u119	Mr President! We are still living in the midst of a global pandemic, and there are virus variants that weaken vaccine protection. In this situation, it would be irresponsible to slow down the recovery of the economy by starting to tighten fiscal policy. Long-term unemployment is also on the rise. If inflation were to increase over a long period of time and be clearly demand-related and non-temporary bottlenecks, then fiscal policy should be tightened. But this is not the situation at hand, and the inflation rate is barely in line with the ECB's objective, despite the exceptional situation. If fiscal policy is tightened up, then it also means tax evasion, and above all it means tax evasion, because we cannot afford a policy of cuts in post-column reconstruction. We can't afford to go and make it worse. Of course, inflation must be taken seriously — it has been discussed recently — and governments should be prepared to tighten fiscal policy if necessary. On the other hand, we must also be careful not to overreact to temporary price increases. The world economy is still living in the middle of a pandemic and the situation is very uncertain. The most important thing now would be to combat the social suffering caused by the corona crisis and to ensure the return of the economy to a long-term growth path. The post-interest recovery, which is now starting in this amending budget, is a long-awaited and long-awaited demand surge and should not lead to too fast conclusions. Growth, when it has not even really begun, has already been considered in this Chamber as to whether too much is being revived. Well, let's not be. The structures of our economic system lead to a chronicly slow increase in overall demand, when private real investment, for example, is not sufficiently generated in Europe — and did not occur after the previous financial crisis. Mr President! This amending budget makes its first contribution to the EU Recovery Facility. Recovery funds are used to accelerate the transition to a low carbon society and to invest in continuous learning and to dismantle treatment lines. These measures will also boost research, employment and the green transition. The continuation of the entitlement to labour market support for entrepreneurs and the continuation of the increase in the unemployment protection component are included in this amending budget. The amending budget also proposes a number of measures aimed at alleviating the harm to businesses caused by the interest rate. The total amount of these is about one billion. That is why I am surprised at the debate that has been heard in this Chamber that this government is not about to invest in employment. The amending budget also includes around 590 million expenditure increases directly related to the corona virus, such as the procurement of vaccines and the operating costs of the THL and the maintenance of the testing capacity. Other costs directly related to the corona virus include the cost of transferring municipal elections, the cost of internal border control and so on. That's why I'm surprised they're criticizing this total. Mr President! A total of EUR 111 million aid package to alleviate the harmful effects of corona on children and young people includes 40 million for pre-school and basic education and early childhood education, 15 million for upper secondary school education, 5 million for vocational education and 5 million for liberal education. In addition, funding will be directed towards higher education institutions, improving access to substance abuse services, improving mental health services and preventive action by the police. These are all very important things. It is therefore very confusing to listen to the opposition's criticisms of this amending budget. Mr President! This government's amending budget is taking on the learning debt of the corona for children and young people. This amending budget is a good package, and I very much hope that this investment, which we are now about to mobilise in the municipalities, for example, to reduce the learning debt, will actually be invested by the municipalities by providing additional resources to schools and not by replacing something that should have been done anyway. This learning debt must definitely be closed. It is also a question of future employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u120	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u121	Mr President! We cannot afford to lose any children or young people. We have no right to compromise on the implementation of children's rights in the midst of a difficult economic situation. The Korona era has challenged the realisation of children's rights and the lives of children, young people and families as well as everyday life. Although Finland is a well-organised society and, in international comparison, we have been quite successful in dealing with the corona crisis, the post-crisis management will continue for a long time, perhaps longer than we know. But we know that much of the children in Finland are well. At the same time, we have children and young people who are very ill, whose daily lives are not safe or who are invisible in our society. And it is these children and young people already in the most vulnerable positions who have been most affected by the corona crisis. We know that the corona crisis has increased the need for support for children, young people and families. At the same time, the exceptional situation has reduced the accessibility of services. This leads to a service deficit and a welfare debt that must now be closed, for we cannot close our eyes to any child’s need. And that is why the amending budget before us today is extremely important. It shows that in this society children and young people are ready to take care of, because children's rights are our adult obligations. We must also remember that the well-being of children and young people is always more dependent on public services than the adult population and on how society’s resources are shared through decision-making. Mr President! More than EUR 100 million will now be invested in supporting the well-being of children and young people in order to remedy what has been broken by the current corona crisis and in order to prevent the problems from being brought together again – we must succeed in ensuring that every child and every young person gets help when they need to have at least one safe adult in their lives, and that is what we need to invest in the support of parenthood and in the everyday life of families. We need to invest from the clinics to the second stage in the invaluable professional chain that works with our children and young people in everyday life. That is why the decisions now being made to increase investment in the whole path from early childhood education to secondary education are needed. The important thing is that mental health and substance abuse services are now being invested. However, we cannot stay and talk only about mental health and substance abuse services for children and young people, but it is always important to understand that childhood takes place there in the everyday lives of adults. It is estimated that one in four children live in a family where the parent has a mental health or substance abuse problem requiring treatment. 3.4 per cent of upper secondary school students under 21 years of age and 6.8 per cent of vocational education students are in charge of daily or weekly care of their loved ones who are struggling with mental health or substance abuse problems. That should not be the case, for anyone who has not received sufficient support from growing up in a family where a loved one suffers from mental illness or misuses drugs knows what kind of tracks it can leave at its worst up to adulthood. That is why we must succeed in cutting off those intergenerational spirals, and that is why we must invest in these adult services. And there, in adult services, we need to be able to take better account of children and young people who are close to an adult as well-being adults create a healthy breeding ground for our children and young people. The additional efforts now being allocated to mental health and substance abuse services are therefore important. However, they alone are not enough. We must ensure that mental health services of all ages are permanently secured and that we manage to bring the full guarantee of treatment with mental health and substance abuse services to the Parliament as soon as possible. Mr President! No child or young person should be the victim of a crime, but not the perpetrator. The efforts now being decided to increase police resources in order to prevent crimes against children and young people and also crimes committed by young people are extremely important. Significant efforts are made to increase resources where crimes against children are investigated and combated. I have worked with young people who are showing signs of crime and also with children who are victims of crime. I have heard the words so many times, how nothing matters anymore, and we in society know that the words and the point, when nothing matters anymore, are the most dangerous. Young people don’t fall from scratch into the streets with drugs or crimes to be symptomatic; youth psychiatry departments are not suddenly filled. Yes, as a society we have a place to look in the mirror in how this has happened, we must think seriously about how to deal better with the causes behind the nausea of children and young people. And we should not forget that, for example, every child or young person who is a symptom of crime is much more than a child or young person who is a symptom of crime. We should do everything we can to ensure that everyone can see the future on this side of the law. It is both in their interests and in the interests of our society as a whole. So we have a lot of work to do to make it possible for every child to grow up in safety, so that every child has the opportunity to pursue his or her dreams in this society, regardless of where he or she grows up or where he or she lives. At this point, however, I would like to warmly thank the government for its decisions to invest in the midst of this crisis and then in the defence of the most important of all: safe childhood and intact youth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u122	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u123	Madam President! In accordance with its predecessors, the third amending budget for 2021 is a strong stimulus. An increase of EUR 2.2 billion will boost growth, advance investment and mitigate the harm caused by the interest rate to businesses. The amending budget will mobilise the reforms of the EU Recovery Instrument and the investments that will enable the implementation of the green transition to begin. Support will be directed towards circular economy, the abandonment of oil and the charging infrastructure of electric cars. The budget also responds to the additional expenditure needs caused by the corona virus, as has been the case with every amending budget in the midst of the corona crisis to date. In further preparation, appropriate and effective allocation of appropriations will be ensured through cooperation between municipalities and other experts in the field. Mr President! The amending budget support package for children and young people deserves special thanks now. Crisiss tend to hit the younger generations the hardest, and the corona crisis is no exception. Children and young people and their families need support now. Children must not be forced to bear the consequences of this crisis, because that is our responsibility as adults. A package of support for children and young people of over EUR 100 million in the amending budget will fill the accumulated welfare and learning debt, which will perhaps be the biggest debt caused by the corona crisis. Funding will be strongly targeted at improving access to mental health and substance abuse services for young people, i.e. low-threshold services, as it should be. Support must be provided when it is necessary, not in months' time. At the same time, we must ensure that the measures already decided in the Government Programme to promote services and well-being for children and young people are progressing. Mr President! A few words about traffic. In addition to the private charging infrastructure, the support is directed to public transport. Further efforts are now being made in the area of passenger train purchases, rail electrification and regional and local public transport. It is important to re-establish public transport travel shares in the pre-column growth path. As indicated, the amending budget directly covers expenditure increases resulting from the interest rate virus by nearly EUR 600 million. This covers both the procurement of vaccines and the maintenance of the testing capacity and the sequencing of new strains of virus. The appropriation for vaccine donations through development cooperation provided for in the amending budget is a welcome addition. Because this pandemic will not be over until it is over all over the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u124	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u125	Mr President! I think it is very important that we rebuild our society now. Here is this kind of corona post-treatment going on, and I think the board has been working well all along in this and in time. This time we have a fourth amending budget, where, quite rightly, more than 100 million are invested in the well-being of children and young people. It comes in need, it comes in school, early childhood education, pre-school education, support measures that children need in this situation, and it is very important. There will also be more money for substance abuse and mental health services, so I think this is the kind of heart choice, if you can say so. President! I am a little annoyed that I am now going back to this debate, but I think it is important now, Mr President, to state this in the parliamentary minutes. This is once again the case that the coalition has, as is well known, required the government to save a billion dollars for next year's spending limits, and I think that we have asked quite properly that, when it does, the assembly must know what it would do to make this cut. And two weeks ago, in this Chamber, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Orpo, said that the Convention will be presenting its billion-dollar cut: this list, which is linked to it. Well, it's been two weeks and we haven't seen these actions. Today, Mr Mykkänen said something. the list, but we didn't really see it yet. So, of course, this is the question: will the coalition now, as they see it, make it public? Elections are on the way, and citizens have the right to know what is on the list in their pocket. I believe that this is perfectly fair, perfectly appropriate to demand of them. So much I listed here that when Ben Zyskowicz was left here to tell me, he said one specific thing: housing allowance. Instead, Orpo, Mykkänen and Heinonen left the hall, we did not hear more from them, and that is why this list appears to be published very soon. But here Mr Mykkänen told me that they have 11 spending limits strengthening points that will save about 700 million years ago. Good — but then you have to ask that since these savings would be effective and permanent, does it then mean that the additional expenses of the assembly, such as the therapeutic guarantee, day care costs and others,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u126	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u127	Madam President! First of all, balanced public finances are the best supporter for every Finnish citizen — every child, every young person, every grandmother and every person who works everyday. I asked Minister Saariko and the government earlier whether they even had the objective of balancing public finances, and I did not get the answer — apparently not. Well, then a little perspective on this situation. So we are dealing with this third amending budget. 16.2.2007 was the last days of Matti Vanhanen's first government. Pekkarinen, then Director General of the Ministry of Finance, announced the calculation of the budgetary room for manoeuvre for the next parliamentary term. It stated that there was no allocation margin, but that savings should have been made in order to make public finances sustainable. The central government debt then amounted to EUR 56 billion. The employment rate was 69 per cent. Party leaders didn't swallow that. Their reactions caused the Helsingin Sanomat to headline their next day’s article as follows: “Benega into the flames.” In the evening newspaper: “After us, the Flood”, the subheading was entitled “The State Treasury’s Ministry’s warning mirroring seems to have preceded the 1990s recession with a cash seeding”. There was a famous divisional debate in which, among other things, the then Prime Minister, now the new former Minister of Finance, Vanhanen, felt that there would be an allocation of up to EUR 5 billion in the next parliamentary term. The future finance minister, Jyrki Katainen, also introduced the mythical character Sari Nurse, whom the current nursing staff will probably remember with the same warmth as pensioners from their May Day crop. Among other things, the SDP was at the time financing expenditure increases through faster employment development than the VM estimates. Does that ring a bell? And what did that situation look like back then? According to the spending limits note of the VM for 2008-2011, the sustainability gap in public finances would have been covered if the employment rate had risen to 71.5% by 2011 and the fiscal room for manoeuvre would have been around EUR 5 billion if the employment rate had been raised to 75%. Does that ring a bell? Well, the party leaders then took the latter figure and began to sow money. Madam President! And, behold, there was no flood, but there was at least a continual pouring of rain after this. After the relatively small debt rush of the financial crisis in 2008-2009, Finland remained on a permanent indebtedness path. From the end of 2009 to the end of 2019, i.e. before the interest rate, the central government owed an average of over EUR 4.2 billion each year. In ten years, debt almost doubled to EUR 106.4 billion at the end of 2019. The state has revived with two hands for more than ten years without actually catching up with this sustainability gap at all. After all, employment finally rose to over 71% in 2007, but only in 2018. And there was the Flood in the end. According to this third amending budget, the net borrowing of central government loans in the years 20 and 21 totals over EUR 33 billion, raising central government debt to EUR 140 billion. Similarly, this amending budget hopes that employment will rise to 71.7% next year. In other words, 14 years and EUR 84 billion later, the government hopes to achieve the same employment as it did 14 years ago. The problem here is not whether we are now taking 25 or 33 or some other billion euros in debt because of the interest rate, but the problem is that we come to this crisis and it seems to be going out with the same old mantra, that now that we're sowing public money everywhere, the growth from it will almost soon start and get rid of its sustainability deficit. Mr Government, we are exhausted from this same old mantra, which has already been proven on many occasions that it is not only wrong but even harmful to Finland. In 2007, Helsingin Sanomat wrote that politicians are sowing money now, because in four years' time there will be new elections and a new government will be made and it will be left to them to respond to subsequent challenges. The current government is distributing money now because it is about to be elected and knows that it will have no more than two years to cement destructive structures. The government motto is not “After Us the Flood”. “Sometimes we’ll reach a point where we’re either The government is not changing. It leaves the next governments with their own destructive public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u128	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u129	Mr President! It is great that we will be able to deal with the proposed amending budget, particularly in order to strengthen adequate support services for children and young people's nausea and to meet their learning debt. In the spring, cities are actively communicating about the serious congestion of youth poliklinikot. In Espoo, for example, compared with the corresponding driving point last year, the number of visits by youth politicians has increased by 39 per cent. The waiting times for school psychologists also moved, and they did not get the time in the spring, but went until the autumn. Last year there were nearly 7,000 patients in outpatient care at the University Hospital in Helsinki, and from 2014 the increase was 11.5 per cent. Oulu University Hospital and Central Finland Hospital District also signaled about a third of the growth compared to ten years ago, as well as Turku and Tampere. For juvenile psychiatry, there have been more patients in the wards than in the actual patient places. Studies show that the most obvious factors have been the closure of schools last spring and the end of leisure opportunities. In particular, the young people who have benefited from the communityism of schools and the support the school has received from student and school health care services have been needed. In Espoo, young people who had not yet returned to the school bench have increasingly come for help. Young people felt left alone and without adequate support, and at the same time families struggled not only with corona anxiety but also with unemployment and excessive substance abuse. Mental health and substance abuse services for working-age people and pensioners have not seen a similar rise in Finland. It is therefore important that the actions of the amending budget are targeted at young people. We can be pleased that young people dare to seek help. Our job, on the other hand, is to ensure that it is available. I therefore hope that the amending budget for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will look at the budgeted money as an opportunity to support youth psychiatry services and school curators and psychologists. They can't be funded on the OKM side. Small children also experience symptoms due to corona procedures. Traffic is in the younger age group, i.e. children's psychiatry. Children’s nausea and mental health problems also started to grow before the corona, and this challenge was raised in 2015 places. Mr President! These children and young people are also encountered in day - care centres and schools. At the same time, this accumulated learning debt is to be borne. That is why I think it is very important that EUR 40 million should now be allocated to early childhood education and basic education next autumn. What is important is that this additional effort in the municipalities ends up for this very purpose, despite the fact that the municipalities are otherwise in a tight financial situation. These interest rate subsidies are not intended to balance the municipal balance sheet. Studies show that up to half of upper secondary school students need support to reach the knowledge and skills that have been challenging in remote education. 15 million will be spent on this work on upper secondary schools. Vocational education and training has already received some funding in previous aid packages. Here it is extended by 5 million to give each young person the support and guidance he needs and to complete his or her studies. The higher education institutions also receive support for student guidance and support, as well as the increase in the number of student grants and student loans, which is expected to be realised. In the recent debate and also in the speech of the previous representative, the government was tested for the sustainability gap. In my opinion, if our young people are unwell, if the quality of our education in the country falls, if our immigrant youth does not integrate and learn Finnish or Swedish well, we will also build sustainability debt — a debt that is difficult and expensive, if not impossible, to settle later. That is why these measures are needed now. The investment nature of education must be understood and care taken to ensure that these investments are not compromised. A few more comments on the development cooperation side. In the context of the amending budget, a 10 million-dollar vaccination subsidy is possible through the allocation of Finnish vaccine reserves. In addition, an additional EUR 2 million can be allocated to humanitarian aid. This assistance is more necessary and more important as a result of the corona crisis. In addition, new financial investments will be made available to the African Development Bank. Thank you for these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u130	Congressman Mykkänen is gone. — Mr Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u131	Madam President! This third draft amending budget responds to the challenges posed by the corona pandemic. The situation has continued to be difficult this year, and the reserve for spending limits has proved to be too small. One-off expenditure increases are necessary. In the context of the current year's budget, the Government, in view of the issue of corona virus pandemic, stated that, due to the uncertainty of the situation, an additional reserve of EUR 500 million will be reserved for the year 2021 to be used for one-off and fiscally mandatory expenditure needs arising from the corona virus situation. The continuing difficult situation of the corona virus, including the associated restrictions and support measures, has led to a situation in which this reserve for the spending limits is really too small. A significant part of the total is used to capitalise export companies that are important for the future growth of Finland. The restrictions have hit the business world forcefully, and the government will therefore continue to provide cost support and the temporary right of entrepreneurs to income support and unemployment benefit, as well as an increase in the share of unemployment protection. We are also launching important projects for economic growth. Properly targeted growth inputs will enable Finland’s economy to join the emerging global economy. It is now the right time to ensure economic activity, employment and knowledge in the coming years. These three issues also determine the sustainability of public finances in the long term. Growth, employment, exports and knowledge will not be promoted without the euro — unlike the opposition, the government is aware of this. The opposition is accusing the government of reckless borrowing. I would like to have a sense of proportion in this debate. During the pandemic, Finland is one of the least indebted countries in Europe, and as far as the government deficit is concerned, during the past ten years, both the Finns of Peruvian origin and, in particular, the Coalition Party have historically been increasing this deficit. This government will repair these tracks and create the conditions for economic growth. Mr President! All the measures in the draft amending budget are based on people's well-being. In addition to investing in growth, it is necessary not to repeat past mistakes in the midst of this crisis. The human and economic decline caused by nausea in the 1990s is still being paid in Finland today. We need to make sure that the maintenance debt is actually taken care of. Therefore, EUR 45 million will be allocated to the management guarantee and the winding-up of the care debt. The Korona crisis has hit children and young people in particular. That is why we have put in place a support package of more than EUR 100 million to ensure adequate resources for schools at all levels and for other bodies working with young people and children to support their well-being and to bridge the learning gap in the coming autumn. We will also improve the availability of mental health services by 16 million. Mr President! All the measures in the draft amending budget are based on people's well-being. In addition to investing in growth, it is essential that we also directly support the human aftercare of the corona crisis. We decision-makers have a responsibility to do everything in our power to ensure that children and young people get out of this crisis with minimal damage, so that viable businesses do not fall down so that people get the care and help they need. These are the objectives of the government's third amending budget and I fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u132	Like this. — Mr Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u133	Mr President! In my opinion, amending budget 3 is implementing the spending limits budget and the economic policy which is aimed at raising the interest rate and building new growth and recovery. It is important that welfare services can be secured and that we avoid cuts from those who have been most affected by the crisis, and at the same time build an economic policy that supports growth and recovery. The lifting of the framework will enable us, hopefully, to get rid of the health and economic and social crisis as quickly as possible, and in that direction we will take a big step with this amending budget. Timeliness and targeting of recovery and growth efforts will largely determine how the economy will get involved in the pace of the world economy at the moment. It is precisely the right time to strengthen employment and growth and to strengthen skills. These are the factors that will also ensure the sustainability of public finances in the future. A few specific withdrawals from the amending budget. Support package for children and young people EUR 111 million. It is important that we be able to tackle the problems that the corona has caused to families, children and young people, both in education and in terms of substance abuse and mental health problems. A good response from the government a couple of weeks ago: in the Council for Police Affairs, we were dealing with the situation of juvenile delinquency and the problems currently faced by the police in that field, and I think that this additional EUR 3 million, especially for the field work and for the children and young people, is a good match-fixion, although not a large amount of money, but these resources are desirable. There is a very good work being done at the moment with children and young people in many projects, but there is a need for a more permanent resource and funding in future budgets. Well, then I wonder about this debate that there are no employment measures. [of the Group of the European People's Party: No, it's not!] It is also important that this amending budget now responds to the role of peat entrepreneurs and tries to apply for new jobs and job opportunities, both through education and through the support package.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u134	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u135	Mr President! This third amending budget will help us, as a follow-up to the interest rate, on the path to sustainable growth, strongly in line with its wave and, at the same time, decisively towards a balance of public finances. I would like to thank the government for its support in the creative sectors. At the same time, I warmly congratulate Oulu on being the European Capital of Culture in 2026. In this context, EUR 4 million will be allocated to structural support for enterprises and communities in the cultural and creative sectors, specifically for the development of innovative service production and operating models. The Oulu Capital of Culture Plan started years ago with the gathering of children's and young people's dreams, the consultation of children and young people. Now these dreams come true. Investing in culture and creative industries brings prosperity to us, but also entrepreneurship and jobs. Mr President! Thank you very much for the support package for children and young people, which is aimed at the whole school path and at improving substance abuse and mental health services. The total contribution is EUR 64 million. All of this will be necessary for the post-corona treatment of children, young people and families. An amount of EUR 5 million is proposed for educational institutions in liberal education to offset the effects of the corona virus situation. I'm gonna need this, too. Education in liberal education promotes the integrity, equality and active citizenship of our society. The aim of education is also to promote the diverse development and well-being of people. All of this is needed in the post-coronation treatment of the corona. The importance of liberal education as a trainer of our society is significant. Adult education centres, folk high schools, summer universities, physical education centres and study centres do invaluable work in providing the opportunity for self-development in a flexible but high-quality way, taking into account their own starting points and life situation. The importance of liberal education is very central to our society. This importance should also be demonstrated by concrete efforts. Liberal education offers us opportunities to develop ourselves and our expertise throughout the country. Mr President! The third amending budget amounts to just under EUR 10 million for the whole of continuous learning. 2 million will be developed from a digital set of continuous learning services. Specific and conversion training, guidance and counselling are available on the same platform. Everyone can find convenient training there to develop themselves and their skills and to get a new job. 2 million will be used to strengthen the digitalisation and flexible learning of higher education. New work is mainly created in areas where higher education is needed. That is why this investment will help us to get on the road to growth. I would also like to thank you for the EUR 3 million invested in Ohjaamos as part of the municipal incentive model. Not all children and young people are well. Schools have been left unfinished, young people have fallen from the sled, learning debts have accumulated, mental health problems have increased. The cabs provide young people with all the services they need from the same door. This is also an important support for the implementation of the extension of compulsory education. This action will contribute to preventing the marginalisation of young people. The kids and the kids are gonna make tomorrow. Take care of them and encourage them to study and work, engage in and build this common land.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u136	Like this. — Mr Bergqvist is to be taken on board and this item is to be suspended. — Ledamot Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u137	Ärade talman, Mr President! Finland’s strict interest rate policy has contributed very well to coping with the pandemic in relation to other countries. We should be proud of this, but the price has also been high. We now need measures that will stimulate society and the economy again. The virus will not disappear for a long time, so we need to learn to live with it instead of running away. Finally, we need to move from total investment to investment, which will open up society in a safe way. This is what the third amending budget is showing signs of. I would like to thank the government for the comprehensive package that we are discussing here today. There are investments in children and young people, support entrepreneurs and investments that create faith in the future. It is good that the government is now giving the green light to major investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u138	Tack. — And now the debate and the proceedings are adjourned. The proceedings shall be resumed at this same session after the other items of the order of business have been examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u139	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Congressman Kivisaari gone. — Mr Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u140	Madam President! In this context of the additional budget as a whole, it is important to draw attention to the very irresponsible economic policy of this country's government and its stance. Firstly, when we went through this additional budget today and the new finance minister there said that the government's efforts to stabilise the ratio of public debt to GDP by the middle of the decade, I think he gave a rather rosy picture of what the situation really is. It is true that the growth of this debt ratio will be halted, perhaps for a year, but when we read and read the latest financial review of the VM, which clearly tells us that this policy and these measures will continue to increase the debt ratio until the 2050s, I think it will also tell a great deal about the impact of the measures taken by this country's government on our public finances and employment. That is the first thing that is important to take into account. In other words, when you look at the government’s economic policy objectives, it is, it is said, entirely utopian — with these measures it will not happen. As far as employment policy is concerned, the government has increased this employment target to 80,000 employed people. It can be said that less than half of the government has been able to get together, although you tried, perhaps with some questionable means after the spending limits debate, to say that the measures decided in these proceedings would have an employment impact of some 40 000 jobs, but in fact the ink had not dried up from these papers at the point where the VM stated that their impact was only about 11,000. In other words, there is still quite a lot of air in these matters, and more than half of these necessary measures are still exhausted, and this is the central issue that we have specifically challenged and also criticised the government of the country. Madam Speaker! Much has also been said today about the credibility of economic policy and confidence in how Finland's public finances are managed, and I would like to point out that the government of this country is the first government in the 21st century, which, through its own measures, has decided to break its own budget ceiling, that is, the spending framework. This is a political agreement, of course, but it is undisputed that the use of the spending limits system in the 21st century has protected the ordinary Finnish taxpayer from the smoky use of funds by politicians, has curbed the increase in expenditure and has also supported the fact that, in good times in the early 2000s, the debt could also be paid off very much rather than the money being spent on other expenditure. And now it is a big and good question as to how it will be in the future, but now that five parties in Parliament have decided by common accord to abandon the spending limits instead of prioritising and respecting the spending limits you yourself set. I think this is a very serious change in this Finnish economic policy and I just think that we will find this problem for us in the years to come, too, when these issues will be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u143	Congressman Elo is gone. — Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u144	Madam President! First of all, it is easy to agree with everything Mr Marttinen said in relation to the crossing of the frameworks, the lack of employment targets half way and many others. However, I thought, Madam President, that I would take the floor now that the debate was about the big picture of the economy. I was going to say a few words of warning about what is going on here, both in Finland and internationally. I'm a real economics teacher. I do not want to stress what I myself have taught, but I still remember what I have been taught when I have studied that subject. And now, as you look at the world we are going to, it seems that those economic doctrines are, as it were, completely thrown into a scrap heap. Unfortunately, I am afraid that economics and the economy have not changed, and that is the only thing that has changed is that, in view of this interest rate and the social challenges that have already been faced in the past, a political effort is being made to resolve matters without regard for the economy, and this involves very serious risks. If we leave Europe first, there was a long debate here about this package of aid. Its dimensions were 750 billion. The ECB's purchase programme by the end of 2020 was EUR 1850 billion, i.e. a completely different scale. Biden’s administration in the United States carried out a $2.3 billion infrastructure package, and it had already been preceded by support packages made during Trump, where money was distributed directly to Americans, including in cheques and home. So this reflects the fact that we have made quite some arrangements. Well, there are already examples in the USA that inflation has risen by more than 4%. The President of the Republic in his own interview last Saturday also warned about what might be ahead of him. What I have at least been taught in economics is that if the amount of money is increased more than the economy is growing, it will lead to inflation, and then we will face major challenges. And the other thing is that if you are recklessly indebted, as Europe is now in debt, America is in debt, the debt of many countries around the world is also in debt to Finland — and have also been in debt to Finnish households whose debt is also higher than ever before, even though we have been behind this financial crisis for many good years — at some point we are in a situation where those who have owed do not believe that the debtor will survive those debts. And what's the first thing that happens? What happens is that the interest rates are going up. And then, if even Finland’s sovereign debt begins during this parliamentary term — if this current government still has some time to go on — it will end up close to 150 billion, and it can be concluded that even if the interest rate on the debt does not go up to 2 per cent, then we will talk about 3 billion debt management expenditure per year, and it is an enormous amount to find money in that budget from other expenditure lines to do so. If it is said that the interest rate will rise to 3%, then we are already talking about 4.5 billion. Of course, an even bigger question is what is happening in the world. Is it true that, at some point, this central bank-driven policy is driving aground? Then we are all faced with very great challenges. Of course, I understand that when the effects of the interest rate have been much greater in many countries than in Finland, this social situation has led to the need to find solutions, as it were, but there is a great risk at stake here. In fact, I think that although the political challenges are tougher than they were in the past, if you look at the United States, the realities of the economy have not changed. And the risk of a counter-reaction is very high, and then, unfortunately, it swings the whole world. However, with these words — perhaps a little further away from this actual additional budget — I wanted to take part in this debate on what concerns the former teacher of economics in this big picture of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u145	Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u146	Madam President! The third amending budget for this year is under discussion. The amending budget is exceptionally high, with a total of over EUR 2 billion. It will stimulate growth, advance investment and respond to the expenditure needs of the corona virus and mitigate the harm caused by the corona, especially for businesses and children and young people. This amending budget includes a package for children and young people with a total budget of EUR 111 million by the Marin government to mitigate the adverse effects of the interest rate. Funding enables, for example, the correction of the learning debt caused by the corona crisis through education that takes account of the individual situation of a child or young person and, for example, by reaching out to students who have not been reached during the corona crisis. After all, children and young people have also been isolated from school, hobbies and some of their friends for the past year, and this has, of course, caused many problems for them. Well, there's a lot of life and mental health to be put to the test. Children and young people with a weak pre-coronation status have been particularly at risk of learning difficulties or otherwise a challenging or unsafe environment for growth. Support services, e.g. student care, have been too far away when you have studied remotely for a long time. In the course of this health crisis, many families have already seen the challenges of everyday life highlighted and aggravated, whether they are underprivileged as a result of unemployment, substance abuse or other causes of harm to their well-being. It is therefore good that mental health services and substance abuse services are also becoming additional resources in this amending budget. The Government has invested very much in the development of the Finnish education system. It is great that children and young people are also being held to account during the exceptional circumstances of the corona pandemic. Education inputs are future investments. In its amending budget, the Government proposes EUR 40 million for pre- and basic education and early childhood education, EUR 15 million for upper secondary school education and EUR 5 million for both liberal and vocational education and training. EUR 4 million is proposed for funding universities. Funding aims to offset the effects of the corona virus situation, such as the learning gap and the deterioration of students' well-being. In addition, EUR 23 million is proposed to improve access to substance abuse services and EUR 16 million to improve mental health services. A total of EUR 3 million is also proposed for the prevention of police activities. Mr President! Even when Mr Marttinen insisted that the government should have kept to the spending limits, I personally hope, as many people in this Chamber have wanted more than once, that a demand has been made by the representatives and by the parties that the coalition finally publish its famous list of cuts which would be being carried out, and precisely before the municipal elections. That would be fair to the voters. It takes courage, but the National Coalition Party could take the example of the Finns. In his own speech last week, Halla-aho, the chairman of the Finns Party, made it quite honest,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u147	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u148	Mr President! The Government’s amending budget includes many increases in central government expenditure. As a general rule, expenditure includes important direct costs related to the corona virus and expenditure items intended to support enterprises. Today has been a day of discussion about children and young people. They are important and they are under the special protection of the Coalition Party. However, the whole that has been discussed here is problematic, and billions are no small drop in the sea of central government finances. Perhaps the most problematic is the government's promise to return to spending limits, which the government is now flagrantly violating. The government will break it with EUR 1.4 billion. That's a lot of money. So this has been promised, spoken by the government itself, and now it is broken. Frame budgeting is not something to be ignored by words or by ticks. The spending limits budget here in Parliament has had strong parliamentary support from left to right since 1991 when Aho was Prime Minister and Iiro Viinanen, the legendary Minister of Finance. The spending limits budget has played an important role in protecting taxpayers. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, governments have always agreed on a maximum amount of four years of expenditure and have ensured that funds throughout the country are misused or that public expenditure is increased on the pretext of pleasures. Mr President! In particular, during and under municipal elections, spending limits budgeting and keeping to it would have been necessary, as politicians sometimes have the habit of inventing lists and making important expenditures in the run-up to the elections in order to please voters. For example, a representative: By the way, my corner made a good speech today. I interpreted his speech in such a way that he was concerned that this corona mess is now an opportunity to slip a lot of other things into these budgets that are not necessary. Inside the domestic walls, we're also being watched from outside. Ratingrs understand the figures and watch how Finland maintains its own fiscal policy rules. The rules have now been broken and will probably be followed up more closely in the future. It is to be hoped that the government's reckless economic policy will not lead to difficulties on the international loan markets. Then this Nordic perspective, which has been discussed. How in the world does our neighbour to the West and Sweden, which has recently been fluctuatingly successful in hockey, launder our country's economic policy over and over again? Sweden remained in the early stages of the World Cup, but in the economy it always goes straight to the finals. Why can't Finland do this? Can't the city centre and RKP pilot a government ship into safer waters from an economic point of view? Camreer's elves can reach the leaves' columns, but they can't be true. Mr President! With its economic policy, Finland could be one of the brightest locomotives in the Nordic countries if we wanted to. There's nothing to stop it. We have a hardworking people ready to take up work and work. At one time, for example, Ireland was referred to as a Celtic tiger, who made tough decisions to get on the road to economic policy. Estonia also pursues growth-friendly economic policies. In Finland, even one radical action would not necessarily be necessary. It just seems too easy for the current government to put an amending budget after an amending budget without a plan for debt management and investment in employment. Mr President! As noted, the treatment of the corona virus requires its money, it is good financial management. The Coalition Party has been of this opinion all along. At the latest, however, the government needs a movement of posture to grasp the whole. Now we reach out to the top of the debt mountain, so that the wind grabs and capsizes into the known juniper. I hope that is not the direction Finland is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u149	Congressman Könttä gone, Congressman Adlercreutz gone. — Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u150	Mr President! From economic history it can be seen that after pandemics and other exceptional phenomena, economic development has always been very positive. Private consumption is gradually recovering and savings are being released for consumption. This will contribute to the recovery of the service sector from the difficulties created by the interest rate and will gradually improve employment. The growth of the global economy also contributes to the recovery of our exports and investments and to their reintegration into the growth path. A well-functioning infrastructure provides a framework for economic growth. Additional funding for basic road management will be a real need, as our road network needs to be taken good care of. The Bridges of Kirjalansalmi and the Strait of Helsinki in Parainen will also receive the necessary renewal money as a matter of urgency. Funding for the purchase of rolling stock for the new night rail body is also a good target, as it supports accessibility at national level. Night trains, which carry not only people but also cars, increase the accessibility of Lapland and improve the conditions for tourism. The increase in the authorisation of innovation aid for shipbuilding will enable the start-up of new ship projects and the increase in the maximum amount of aid per ship. This will improve employment in the shipbuilding industry. It is important that Finnvera’s export guarantee and special guarantee activities are capitalised. Mr President! Children and adolescents have suffered unduly from the coronavirus situation. The distance school and the reduction in social contact have been mentally hard places for young people, which have caused mental stress and stress, and have weakened their daily lives. In order to alleviate these handicaps, it is important to target funding, and that is what this additional budget will do. The appropriate and effective allocation of appropriations will be ensured through further preparation with municipalities and other experts in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u151	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u152	Mr President! Representative My corner today gave a good speech on the overall direction of fiscal policy and on the point at which it is actually worthwhile to pursue a stimulating fiscal policy. After all, we are already in a situation where the upturn has begun and is beginning and there is a resuscitation in various parts of the world, and the risk of a little too much resuscitation and of being in a situation of inflation is very near. In other words, questions may already be raised as to whether we should rather reduce these expenditures in this respect as to what the government has proposed. I'd like to ask you a question. Here, among other things, this amending budget talks about an additional EUR 60 million for peat entrepreneurs, which is, of course, divided into different issues, but quite a few cultural operators would probably have expected Minister Saarikko, at the time when he was responsible for science and culture, to have at least some of this money allocated to cultural operators. However, when they are receiving transaction guarantee support, it is meant to be cancelled. It is a sort of guarantee that, if the event is cancelled, the costs will then be reimbursed under certain conditions, but this does not, in a way, answer the question of how to provide for the livelihood of those who work in this area. And in that sense, I'm sure something could have been removed from that $60 million. But I would like to say one more thing about this, and that is that Hetemäki, former Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, recently raised the point that it might be worth introducing a product development reduction in Finland, which is already in some 20 EU countries and in some 30 OECD countries. After all, we have a double depreciation system in place at the moment, and apparently his proposal was that this product development reduction would replace double depreciation at the moment. In fact, the background is that we have long been a little behind in product development efforts compared to many other countries. We currently have 2.8% of GDP and the target should be 4%. At product development level, this means that we have the investments concentrated on a handful of companies that do it, but it should be expanded so that we can then get decent lunches, innovations and various new beginnings then,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u153	Congressman Koskela is gone. — Mr Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u154	Mr President! I am deeply concerned about the government's economic policy. The government is cutting off science, and the police have been told to save money, even though the debt taps are in the southeast and all imaginable things are now being poured into debt money. Everyone in Finland now has reason to be concerned about the future of our welfare services and the sustainability of their funding. Without sustainable public finances, we do not have the best comprehensive school in the world, functional health services, elderly services, early childhood education, smooth public transport and other social services. We and the Finns expect and deserve a more responsible economic policy. It is not enough to take debt money without blurry and pay it all. We need to think about the state's income and the famous sustainability gap. This has been neglected by the government, both in the spending limits debate, in the budget and in this amending budget. Anyone will be able to distribute debt money in this way into different types of items, which are necessary and important in themselves. It does not require 20 ministers and 100-headed assistants, but this could be done by any single Member of Parliament here if only the mandates were available. I wonder what the government has against working and increasing Finnish wealth and increasing self-sustaining. Why are there no employment measures? Why don't you want people to work? There are ways, there have been many discussions here. We should just start applying them. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Finance and others have carried out numerous studies and reports on how to reduce the sustainability gap, how to create more jobs and economic growth. They're just not good enough for the government for some reason. Further preparations must be made for the post-column period, when a change in economic policy is needed, focusing, among other things, on people's opportunities, the success and growth of businesses and the increase in employment rates to 80% and the correction of the sustainability gap in public finances. Mr President! The Marin government owes the Finns no restraint. You can't divide more and more for less and less. In the amending budget, the government decided, contrary to its own promises, to break this year's spending limits level by 1.4 billion, but it has no means of curbing expenditure growth. According to the Government’s communication of May, ‘the framework reserve decided on indirectly from the Corona virus epidemic to theneeded needs will be increased This is one-off and fiscally compulsory expenditure.’ After this amending budget, EUR 1.5 billion has been spent on the reserve, which means that the government intends to allocate another EUR 300 million. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, announced at the information meetings of last autumn's Budget Committee that no new amending budgets would be needed as a result of the interest rate. At that time, the forecasts for both GDP and public finances were much gloomier than they are now. There is therefore no compelling need for further loosening of fiscal policy. The Government has already decided on a so-called 'exceptional circumstances mechanism', which allows for an increase in the spending limits level of EUR 1 billion over a total period of two years. This increases spending limits by 500 million per year between 2021 and 22. In addition, the government has provided itself with 500 million of the so-called one-off and fiscally mandatory expenditure. The frameworks will therefore be broken by up to EUR 1.35 billion this year. It is now clear that the government is speeding up debt rather than responsible finances. There is no plan to contain the debt. The additional expenditure proposed in the amending budget without consideration for balance is sad to see. At this rate, the debt ratio will not even out at all. After this government, the increase in the debt ratio will accelerate and exceed the 100 % threshold as early as the early 2040s — according to the Ministry of Finance's economic review this spring. The sustainability roadmap for government and public finances does not provide any sensible and concrete means of curbing expenditure. This expenditure is a long way from a responsible economic policy. The hands of the left-wing government are in the pockets of our children, for they will eventually pay for this fun.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u155	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u156	Mr President! We are dealing with an amending budget for this year. The Coalition Party is deeply concerned about the future of welfare society services and the kind of country we leave to our children. Without sustainable public finances, we do not have the best comprehensive school in the world, functional health services, elderly services, early childhood education, smooth public transport and other social services. That is why the government was expected to change the direction of economic policy. However, in the amending budget, the government decided, contrary to its own promises, to break this year's spending limits level by 1.4 billion and does not propose any means of curbing expenditure growth. At the information meeting at last autumn's Budget Committee, Mr Vanhanen, then Minister for Finance, announced that no new amending budget would be needed due to the interest rate. At that time, the forecasts for both GDP and public finances were much gloomier than they are now. There is therefore no compelling need for further loosening of fiscal policy. As much as 2.1 billion new expenditure is proposed in the amending budget. This is an impossible amount. When it comes to economics, of course, income and expenditure should be proportional. The reason for this is the interest rate, but this is not a justified reason, since expenditure is already outside the spending limits, which means that it is already increasing debt there and it has not been calculated in the framework. In view of that, too, this is an inconceivable direction. In view of the years ahead, the government should, in this situation, have assessed expenditure and also looked at its own political projects and ideological objectives that have been set for this regime. After all, it has originally been justified, thought that employment would increase, but that has not happened, and this debt development will continue. Just as in the household, spending must be reduced when there is less income, but that is not what the government does, and our children and future generations will pay for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u157	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u158	Mr President! I wanted to make a somewhat more general speech on the nature of economic policy, because it has been mentioned here today, particularly by the Prime Minister's representatives, that the coalition is somehow lagging behind the world view, and now in the 2020s, a large state-led fiscal stimulus is, as it were, a new normal one, and it is just a retardation if you see the risks here. Of course, we are talking in Parliament about an amending budget, but, as the Minister of Finance, Saarikko, in fact, confirmed in the debate today, this is of such an exceptional scale that it is in itself a matter of confidence in the Finnish economic policy. I believe that the atmosphere in which we live has much to do with the fact that the last ten years have been lived in a particular kind of central bank economy, as the President of the Republic, Niinistö, in fact, very well described last Saturday's first-said visit. The European Central Bank's balance sheet has multiplied and, in fact, more than a third of the debt of the euro countries has already been bought into the vaults of the Central Bank with money created from scratch for that purpose. Well, the apparently good news is that we no longer feel that public debt is a problem because interest rates have fallen to a constant zero. The debt rules of the euro countries have been forgotten, and yet the purchasing power of the debt has been maintained, even though the amount of debt is rising because, for some reason, inflation has not reacted for ten years. Politicians and citizens are now clearly getting used to this. Is this the new normal? This is probably because the value of money does not drop, even though it has risen dramatically in relation to the value of economic goods, because the rate of money circulation in society has slowed down. According to the so - called monetary quantity theory, the change in the amount of money times the rotation rate is equal to the change in the price level times the amount of production. When the rate of rotation has fallen, it has made it possible that, although the amount of money has increased, the price level has not increased and the volume of production has remained the same. But this does not predict, Mr President, that this will continue as we now move into a new phase in this decade. Ten years have gone by inflated central banks' balance sheets and monetary policy has created money, and now we are entering a phase where, in a record way, direct demand is created through state budgets, circumvented by the slowdown in the rate of money circulation. In America, Roosevelt's New Deal is virtually overshadowed by the scale of the bidenomics, and the recovery in Europe, particularly through national budgets, will be historic if the plans currently in place are implemented. Well, the economy is from people's behavior, and it can never be predicted with certainty, but it is difficult to see how otherwise we would turn out to be creating a bubble that will eventually burst into the collapse of the purchasing power of this debt money, that is, a spiral of inflation. In fact, there are already surprisingly quick signs of this. Inflation has also risen to 2% in the euro area and well above it in the United States. Of course, it may be argued that government-led missions, as it were, prevent this, and, if you think of the theories of some economists who now speak for state leadership, they do base them on spending that permanently increases the production potential of the economy to such an extent that the increase in the volume of goods covers the amount of money created from nothing, not on inflation but on raising the standard of living, as it were, from scratch to pusssies. This may be the case in some projects when we talk about the side effects of Apollo flights in the United States at the time of technological development or some investment projects in Europe, why not, for example, fast train connections, but unfortunately there is no discipline in Finland or in any other Member State, and I am afraid that even in the use of the EU Recovery Fund there will be a lack of discipline when it comes to actually looking at this measure, where this procyclical stimulus money, the debt money created out of nothing, goes, and it will be spent on well-meaning things, but much to improve the transfer of welfare services. What we have here is the fact that the cost of changing the social security reform has been calculated in the form of future investment also among the recovery fund and the domestic future investment money, as this amending budget already actually has these costs for this year — not to mention the coming years. In this respect, I would like Parliament to understand the responsibility of whether it is really justice that we are doing good things over funds and that our children will then have to repair traces of a situation in which the number of over 90-year-olds will double — in this decade — economic productivity growth seems to have slowed down for a long time and the number of working-age people is falling rather than rising. However, I think it would be right to note this risk that, after all, you can't snoop out of nothing with these structures of expenditure and listen to, for example, the warnings of the President of the Republic, which he has been making all the time, but which seem to be echoing a little into empty ears.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u159	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u160	Madam Speaker! To this end, if that may be the case at this point in the evening. We have therefore had a debate today, quite a long time ago, on the economic policy of this country's government and, in fact, on the basis of the basic principles on which this country's economic management and economic policy are currently based. Perhaps I will conclude, Madam President, by pointing out in my earlier speech these key economic policy objectives of the government, which have not reached a goal or are still waiting for themselves, and I would also like to draw attention to the way in which the government of the country has been able to prepare and prepare for the post-corona crisis to date. If we look at the content of this government's sustainability road map, which should, as it were, be a guiding tool for how this sustainability gap is to be bridged this decade, then those measures are unfortunately at a high level and quite a lot of these more specific measures are still lacking there. And now, Madam President, what is essential and important is that, when we deal with these acute issues of the crisis, at the same time, employment decisions and structural reforms will be brought to the attention of Parliament, so that, as soon as possible after the crisis, we can get back to a stronger economic situation and, above all, slow down and reverse debt, and hopefully, in some years' time, we will find a balance between the whole of Finland's public finances. But, Madam President, if this line continues and these measures move forward, it is clear that these objectives will not be achieved. But, of course, we will continue to deal with the matter in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u161	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. In this context, a maximum of 45 minutes will be reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u162	Mr President! The Act on Secondary Use of Social and Health Information, i.e. the Secondary Act, has entered into force on 1 May 2019. The aim of the Seiola Group was to create up-to-date and up-to-date conditions for the use of sensitive personal data stored in social and health care for statistical purposes, scientific research, development and innovation activities, education, information management and guidance of social and health care authorities, as well as for the planning and clearing up of the authority. On the other hand, the second main purpose of the law is to protect the information to be provided for these purposes, in particular digitally stored and disclosed data, so that citizens' trust in the social and health services system and in the processing of their data for secondary purposes can be safeguarded. The law requires that data be disclosed only to secure environments. A secure environment is a key activity in secondary sectors that safeguards the protection of personal data and plays an important role in preventing abuse and cybersecurity. It is expected and desirable that secure operating environments will become a network in Finland over time. In its operating environments, the data user could choose the one with the most suitable analytics tools for the project and the information systems with the appropriate capacity. The requirements for secure environments did not enter into force immediately, but a transitional period was provided for their introduction. After a transitional period, the data permit authority could only provide the licensee with identifiable data for the secure operating environment referred to in the secondary sectors. Where an application for a data permit requests that data sets be submitted for processing in a non-security environment, the application shall give a specific justification for the reasons for which this is necessary. The purpose of the transitional period was to ensure that health research was not stopped when the law came into force. However, the relevant operating units should be obliged to ensure that the information systems used by researchers comply with the requirements set out in the secondary sectors at the latest after the end of the transitional period. It was estimated that the construction of secure operating environments would take about two years, with a transitional period of 1.5.2021. According to the information received from the Data Authorisation Authority, by 1 May 2021, no operator, with the exception of the Data Authorisation Authority itself, will have a secure operating environment as required by Section 20 of the secondary permit, where the data sets could be transferred to the licensee. In addition, foreign operators do not have comprehensive information on this audit obligation and no foreign operator has undertaken to audit its own systems in line with the others. Even the Authority’s own environment of use is not yet able to handle all the data that need to be processed, especially in medical research. Examples include health care imaging material, such as X-rays, ultrasounds and ECG recordings, which are covered by the scope of the secondary system. Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the transitional provision of the secondary legislation so that the requirements required for a secure operating environment of the law would apply only 1. from 1 May 2022. The proposal will allow more operators to have their own operating environment audited. However, prior to that date, information could be submitted to the licensee under the law, even if the application for a data permit does not indicate a secure environment for data processing within the meaning of the law. In such cases, the disclosure of information would require a limited period of authorisation, which would be valid until 30 April 2022 at the latest. In addition, the transitional provision is proposed to be amended to apply from 1 January 2024 rights, obligations and measures based on significant clinical findings of the law. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u163	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u164	Mr President! This Government proposal to amend Article 60 of the Act on the Secondary Use of Social and Health Information proposes to postpone the entry into force of the Act. So it would be two years to 2024. This secondary law, the secondary law on the use of social and health data, enables large-scale combination of registers and harmonises practices in Finland. It provides a centralised administrative process and aims to reduce permit processing times. It takes into account personal data protection in particularly risky situations, such as the combination of large amounts of data and many registers containing sensitive information. The secondary law is very necessary in the field when clinical investigations are carried out. This law and its updating have been long awaited, and this is of course why it is difficult to delay in practical terms. Well, there are also a lot of problems in secondary schools that should be updated, and that is why medical practitioners, researchers and university hospitals have approached MPs with a letter in which they wish to update secondary schools. That is what I am asking here, in fact, when the Minister is present, what the situation is. So some problems have been raised, and the first is the lack of patient consent. In European and international cooperation in registers, the combination of personal data from several countries is based on patient consent. Since Finland does not ask for patient consent, but is based on a limited permit from the authorities, the Finnish practice differs from that of other countries. We therefore lack the legal basis for the processing of personal data necessary for international and European registration investigations, and this makes it difficult for many international investigations to be carried out with precise criteria. The second is that the information permit is limited in time and purpose. In Finland, the use of personal data in the register survey is based on a decision by the national data permit authority Findata, i.e. a data permit, and this authorisation is always limited in time and purpose, including a data recovery plan. The problem is that the authority's permit is limited in time, while a large proportion of the supranational patient registers are intended to be permanent and the purpose is more broadly defined so that the research data can be used in research projects, including those that follow from some research findings, so that they can continue to be further worked. The Secondary Act also prevents the use of the most advanced medical devices. Support treatments include, for example, medical devices used in patients with renal and hepatic impairment, and their development and innovation activities require international cooperation. Today, the requirements of the European Data Protection Regulation for device manufacturers, based on patient consent, cannot be achieved by voluntary development and innovation in Finnish patients. Thus, important development work on support treatments for Finnish patients will be prevented from being smarter and safer, and the use of anonymous data generated by the device can be an integral part of the whole of the device and its related services. It is now impossible to use the device in Finland, although it is possible in other parts of Europe. This is detrimental to the patient and to health care and is contrary to the objectives of the others. Social and health data protection authorities should be given the right to allow adequate data protection for the development and innovation of medical devices for the benefit of patients and health care, and to enable the transfer of personal data based on patient consent and anonymisation services outside Findata in Europe. This guarantees equal treatment of patients. Then this secondary law also causes a problem of equality with regard to rare diseases. About 6% of the population suffer from rare diseases, the cost of which is about 18% of the costs of special care, i.e. a really large part of the total budget, EUR 1.2 billion a year. Eighty to ninety per cent of these rare diseases are hereditary, and because of the genetic structure and concentration of the Finnish population they have become rich in Finland. For the time being, only about 10% of rare patients have to provide effective targeted treatment. So this is a significant group of patients who are in an unequal position. Even though they are a small group, the cost is high. In addition to the register problem, the problem is Findata's payments. The research and innovation of small numbers of patients in social and health care is hindered because the fees exceed the funding of researchers or the Secondary Act does not allow Findata to obtain discretionary authorisation either. This creates a serious problem of equality, as only large groups of patients can be investigated. When these are rare diseases, those patient groups are small, and therefore it may be that they are not going to be investigated because the costs are reasonably high. These fees can also become an obstacle for students who are doing the thesis, students who are doing the thesis, and also make it difficult for researchers to train. This time seems to be running out. I will take the floor again. There are a few more problems that have not yet been addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u165	Okay. — and Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u166	Mr President! The aim of the secondary group is to enable the secure use of social and health information. The medical register survey in Finland is based on the secondary register provided for in 2019. In its current form, the law runs counter to the practices of other countries. It jeopardises research cooperation and weakens treatment outcomes, for example for intensive care and transplants. This is why, among other things, Finnish university hospitals have appealed to us parliamentarians that the parliament should correct the secondary branch as a matter of urgency. The Act on the secondary use of social and health data provides a groundbreaking opportunity to combine large-scale registers, taking into account the data protection of individuals. The law has its own merits, but its starting point is that the permit is granted for a fixed purpose. This runs counter to the principle of national and international registers. Mr President! These registers are of a permanent nature and can be further provided on application, for example, for research projects. In cooperation with European and international registers, the combination of personal data from several countries is based on patient consent. Since Finland does not ask for patient consent, but is based on a limited permit from the authorities, the Finnish practice differs from that of other countries. We lack the legal basis for the processing of personal data necessary for international and European registration investigations, which is why we urgently need to change the secondary register. Mr President! The application of secondary diseases as such jeopardises cooperation in international registry research and thus, among other things, the study of rare diseases in Finland. This creates a very unequal situation in the treatment of these diseases compared to other diseases. There is a risk that Finland will be excluded from the European rare diseases competence networks and research communities. If there is no change to secondary care, a situation may arise that will paralyse the development of the treatment of these diseases. Rare diseases account for about 6% of the population, and the cost of treating these diseases amounts to around 18% of the costs of special care, or EUR 1.2 billion per year. There is also a risk that the treatment of diseases for which we are one of the best in the world will no longer develop or even begin to decline. These include stem cell therapies, treatment of rare cancers, transplants, treatment of cancers in children and treatment of heart problems in children. Mr President! All University Hospitals in Finland have signed a petition to the Parliament to change their secondary systems, and it is therefore necessary to coordinate national secondary law and European practices in the processing of these sensitive health data. As legislator, therefore, we should as a matter of urgency clarify all aspects of this dossier in law and prepare the necessary legislative changes that are now under discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u167	Like this. — and Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u168	Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of secondary issues when I was not able to finish the previous speech. One problem is that secondary law ignores situations involving both primary and secondary use of information. They are difficult terms, but that means that Findata cannot allow it, and current legislation does not define which authority to authorise it. Thus, for example, intensive care and stem cell transplantation registers and publications produced from their activities combine both primary and secondary use, and register data can also be used as part of patient care, and this has significantly improved the treatment of malignant diseases and the quality of intensive care received by Finns. The activities have enabled statutory benchmarking as part of management and quality control based on international health reference data. Why, then, should we hurry up? The shortcomings of current legislation and guidelines prevent participation in European knowledge networks for rare diseases, and Finland's national rare diseases work is based explicitly on the activities of the ERN. The development of the treatment of rare diseases by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the University Hospital Districts has led to a national programme for rare diseases and to the establishment of a unit for rare diseases in the University Hospital Districts and, in the near future, a national coordinating centre for rare diseases in the THL. As mentioned earlier in Mr Kauma's speech, the other countries also have an important link to clinical trials in the field of cancer development and treatment, and what is essential is that we get new medical treatments here as early as possible, whether they relate to rare diseases or to cancer treatments. Often these treatments are expensive. And before they enter the Finnish market, it will take many years, so that the importance of these clinical trials is also absolutely essential in terms of how quickly medicines can also be delivered to Finland. In other words, this appeal for the need to update the secondary sectors has been repeated. I'm sure all the MPs have been contacted about it. And then there's the need, too: The jungle of secondary and other laws relating to clinical drug research is quite a jungle from which the researcher should then understand how to interpret that law and various legal entities and is very difficult to comprehend. That is why it would be important to have the laws relating to pharmaceutical research under a single umbrella as a whole, and that has also been taken into account by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when we had the electronic processing of the register data. In those hearings, this fragmented legal field was strongly highlighted and the fact that it does not know how those laws are necessarily interpreted. And what was also worrying was that even the ministry did not always know how to interpret those laws, and therefore there would be a need to speed up the creation of a whole set of legislation relating to research, a package of laws. And I would like to ask here when Minister Kiuru is here: is this something we are going to promote?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u169	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u170	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here. Of course, we all have these data breaches in our memory, where personal social and health information has ended up in the wrong hands. If this happens, it is always a very long and traumatic experience for the person whose information is leaking. It is important that we have legislation up to date on what a secure environment is and what requirements are required of it. I would just like to point out very quickly that, when you deal with this matter in that committee too, I hope that there will be a wide-ranging debate — because technology is developing at such a huge pace and is moving forward — on how to ensure that our legislation is always kept up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u171	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u172	Mr President! I am very pleased that Mr Kärnä raised this issue. I'm sure you were talking about the Census, which was there the other day. It was very sensitive information about people’s therapy visits and other health records that fell into the wrong hands. Of course, when you read this secondary cloth, it may really seem very paper-flavored and technical, but ultimately it is about people’s health and their very personal affairs. I myself am thinking mainly of the fact that, if and when this social welfare reform now starts, it will certainly also involve the sensitive nature of the processing of personal data, their protection, their use for secondary purposes, statistics and so on, and so on. Certainly, in this context too, it is very important that this law be amended and brought to the point that people also dare to make their health information available for different statistics and leave them there in the registers. Such break-ins like this always undermine people’s trust in systems. Although a matter is said to be confidential and is said to be unknown to no one else, when this happens, it always undermines people’s confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u173	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u174	Mr President! Data protection has been raised here, and it is important to take this into account in all drug trials. I would also like to raise the issue of the reform of social services and the study of medicinal products, as well as the treatment of rare diseases and the treatment of special groups. After all, this social welfare reform has not placed the status or funding of university hospitals, and it is the place where scientific research is carried out together with universities. They are also responsible for the treatment of rare diseases, for expensive treatments and their development, and now, in principle, it is assumed in this social reform that the areas in which the university hospital is located will suddenly finance all the costs of the university hospital, which, understandably, are significantly higher than those of the central hospital in relation to the narrow sectors, but also in relation to preparedness for crisis situations. For example, HUS is centered on child - demanding heart surgery, heart surgery, and some others, such as transplant surgery. It would be right and fair not only for patients but also for these regions to have funding for them. I would like to ask, at the same time as this now also relates to the conditions for research and to the use of secondary jobs: how has the Ministry now thought about this funding for research and funding for university hospitals that they can continue to carry out research and these studies, which are being used to exploit secondary care?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u175	Like this. — And now Minister Kiuru will answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u176	Mr President! In this proposal, we have to say in Parliament that we have not been very successful in implementing this kingdom. The most crucial point is whether we will succeed in implementing it, and at the stage of the committee’s deliberations — I was then chairman of the committee — I doubted that this will not go the way that this draft law was going to apply for it. Today, then, I have to admit that I regret to say afterwards that the committee held a debate on the way in which this implementation is being carried out so that it can succeed. Today, therefore, we are in a situation where the fact is that, apart from the data licensing authority, this secure information environment required by Article 20 of the secondary legislation, to which data sets could be transferred to the holder of the authorisation, does not exist for any operator. Seriously. Now the question is, how much time do we give? I personally had to think about this when the law was already in place and two years have passed and no one has such an information environment that would be permissible. After all, we are in a very serious crisis here when the secondary law does not work, because implementation has not been promoted on the ground. So this is the problem. Throughout my teeth, I have now brought here a motion to give us another year. But this is not how we can move forward in this respect: from the point of view of health growth, we now say that two years have passed, let us add a year to this and say whether or not it will happen. In other words, before we get to grips with the matter, it must be said here in front of Parliament that we do not have such information systems and information security environments with the exception of the data permit authority. Mr President! It must be said, then, that all those things that Mr Laiho and Mr Kauma and Mr Kärnä have just spoken about are very good hopes for how to develop this secondary issue forward — but when we have not yet succeeded in implementing it, not to mention the active use of this law. So now we are giving a new condition that, from the point of view of Parliament, this disclosure of information with a fixed-term information permit would be possible 30. Until April 2022, but since this is a temporary solution, these implementation problems must now be resolved first. Then we must also be able to see how, in this current context, we take account of the concerns expressed by this appeal and by the wider sector. In order to remedy the shortcomings in this implementation, we have already launched a study, a preliminary study, within the same time frame, where we must also be able to see what will be done next. Seoliak must be reformed, it is quite a fact, but many of these problems that have been mentioned here are not the result of this secondary problem itself. I am not going to go into more detail at this meeting. We can have this debate, but many of these problems, for example in the case of rare diseases, are not caused by this secondary issue itself. That is why we should also look at what we do where in this whole law field. It is precisely this clinical trial that is now being discussed in committee in the Parliament, and in that respect some things could already be put right that would give this environment more leverage. Here are some examples. In other words, these problems are not just caused by this secondary issue, but there are still some things to be done here in these other laws relating to the legal framework. But before we even get there, we must say that, from the point of view of health growth, we should make a commitment to creating these secure environments and to embark on these activities, and now I do not see such a spirit in the field. I understand that from the point of view of the corona crisis, but if we want to improve future people with new treatments, then we should get this whole picture in order. But as I said, this was already feared back then,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u177	Like this. — and Mrs Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u178	Mr President! If the minister's still here, and this feels like... I did not even want to take the floor, but when I listened to this answer, I feel that there are now huge problems with this implementation. Could the Minister perhaps open up a little, which is now the road map? It can't go on like this year after year. Do you have any idea what the next steps are? This sounded rather frustrating, certainly for the minister. But what are the possible steps forward, that would, in a certain way, open this puzzle. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u179	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u180	Thank you, Speaker! A little rattled in the ear this, that when nothing has been done, the field is not ready to take this. Of course, the legislator must also take into account the conditions for those electronic systems on the ground. There must also be differences in the various places in which they are able to do so. I saw that it was mentioned in that motion that HUS had objected to or presented another point of view on the postponement of the law. I understand that, I have not read their statement, but I do understand that their point of view is that if the implementation of an important bill is prolonged because they are not everywhere ready for those electronic systems, it is a pity for its research and also for the best care for patients.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u181	Like this. — Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u182	Mr President! In my opinion, these last two speeches were very analytical in assessing this situation, and I myself had to wonder how we would now get the field excited about this. Yes, there is a lot of trouble there, and they have large amounts of money to spend on many things there. With regard to the fact that these information environments are not safe, we cannot continue to do so because, of course, Finns think that their data should be safe. As a nation, we do not have the possibility of always continuing with temporary arrangements. This needs to be made secure so that it is part of this operating environment. In that sense, when Mrs Wallinheim just asked me what could be done here, I was left to think about the same question myself. Yes, we must now be able to increase the ability of the big organisers in particular to see this in such a way that new diseases in Finland will not be able to improve in the same way if we lose the competitive advantage. I also think that that's where the movement needs to start. Even at the time when the committee was being adopted, I myself doubted whether it would make sense for this information to be given out of so many pipes. That is one thing to judge, because this is something you can wait forever for if everyone is expected. But even if this information could be passed on to someone who then arranges it in an information permit environment that is in line with the current framework, it can be considered. Yes, there are various solutions here, including in legal terms, but I have to say yes to Parliament that although I know these problems which are here when I myself have been allowed to be involved in that legislation here, we are faced with the challenges of the timetable for progress in these matters. Many of these petitions, which have also been raised here, are not directly due to this secondary law. But let's take a look at this environment and make some changes. The fall is important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u183	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — And Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u184	Mr President! This government proposal proposes that Parliament approve the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Unified Patent Court and the Act on the Enforcement of the Protocol. The Unified Patent Court is linked in closer cooperation to an agreed European patent system reform between 25 EU Member States, which will allow the European patent to be registered with a single patent. On 8 December 2015, Parliament approved the agreement on the Unified Patent Court and the national legislative amendments resulting from the adoption of the Act on the Enforcement of the Agreement and the Agreement. Finland ratified the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court on 19 January 2016. However, the agreement has not yet entered into force internationally. It has also been decided to establish a first-degree local section of the Unified Patent Court in Finland, for which Parliament adopted the Act on 28 October 2016. The creation of a local section in Finland enables the handling of a dispute over a European patent in Finland as well as the exercise of justice in Finnish or Swedish. The privileges and immunities granted to the Unified Patent Court and its local sections are laid down in the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Unified Patent Court to which this Government's proposal relates. The privileges and immunities provided for in the Protocol concern, inter alia, the inviolability of the premises, archives and documents of the Court of Justice, the integrity of the court and its property, the integrity of the law, tax exemptions and the privileges and immunities of the judges, Registrar and staff of the Court of Justice. The Protocol has not yet entered into force internationally. The privileges and immunities granted in the Protocol are largely equivalent to the privileges and immunities normally granted to international organisations and their staff. The privileges and immunities provided for in the Protocol are not intended for the personal benefit of their recipients but are intended to serve the interests of the Court of Justice and, in particular, to ensure, in all circumstances, the freedom of action of the Court of Justice and the complete independence of persons enjoying privileges and immunities. Mr President! The adoption of the Protocol requires the approval of the Parliament, as the provisions on the privileges and immunities of the Protocol concerning the inviolability of property, assets, premises and archives, tax exemptions, entry facilitations and legal exemptions fall within the scope of the legislation. The national transposition of the Protocol is not expected to have significant financial implications. The Protocol contains some tax exemptions for the court and its judges, the Registrar and the staff. In this respect, Finland may lose a small amount of tax revenue. In practice, however, the privileges and immunities of the Protocol would apply to a very limited circle of persons in Finland. The Protocol also allows its parties to restrict the scope of the tax exemptions granted to the staff of the Court of Justice so that they do not concern Finnish citizens or any person who, immediately prior to his employment relationship, already resided in Finland. Finland should refrain from extending these exemptions to the persons concerned, and an explicit provision would also be included in the Act on the Implementation of the Protocol. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u185	Thank you. — Mr Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u186	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Haavisto, for presenting the matter. The creation of a common European patent system has been a long-term objective and an interest for Finland, and it is therefore good that, with the adoption of this protocol, we are one step closer to achieving this objective. This process, which has already started in 2015, has in particular been slowed down by Britain's unfortunate and long-standing separation process from the European Union. Mr President! It is to be assumed that if the project is now brought to the end, it will be a reform that will, for a long time, improve the competitiveness of the EU as a whole. It is also needed right now when the world is accelerating to a new growth after a surge in the interest rate. In fact, Finland's arguments support and promote this creation of a common patent system have only been highlighted in the second half of the 2010s and now during the interest rate period. Finland's business base remains in innovative SMEs, and as a result Finland is still one of the most patent-intensive countries in the world in terms of its population. Therefore, any means of facilitating the operation of these companies in the EU internal market is important. Mr President! However, we too, at national level, could do more for innovative companies and their patent protection. I have been particularly concerned about the situation of our companies using intellectual property patents, i.e. IPR patents. We've been sleeping through our happiness here. The unfortunate fact is that Finland has lost many so-called high added value companies to other countries during the 2010s with taxation of IPR patents higher than other competing countries, and, worst of all, other so-called innovative companies have also gone along. That is why I would like this and at the latest in 23 C.E., the new government to consider drawing up a separate tax programme to keep IPR actors in Finland. In 2012, the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Jan Vapaavuori, also proposed that we introduce a separate IPR tax box as a solution to this. We also need to improve the overall IPR legislation. After discussions with IPR experts at the Central Chamber of Commerce, among other things, their message was as follows: ‘Our preparations for the law are worrying because more than a small number of reforms have not been carried out. The patent law is currently obsolete and unconstitutional, even though it has been 20 years since the current Constitution was reformed. In the case of the recently reformed trade mark law, the smaller ones, such as the Madrid Protocol, have not been implemented. There is simply too little labour available to handle IPR.” Mr President! I hope that the government will address these concerns as quickly as possible. This will enable our companies to make full use of the opportunities offered by the common European patent that is now being created.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u187	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u188	Mr President! This issue of the patent court before us is very important. Of course, from the perspective of Finland, we are a small, open country dependent on exports, and to an increasing extent we also have export companies where income comes from things other than tangible products. Up to 75% of income can come from patents, copyrights, trademarks, protection of design and this type of thing, and that is why it is very important that we also have legislation to keep up with this, but that we are also internationally involved and involved in EU systems in the way that this is moving forward, so that we are not left here alone in the north of Europe. In this speech by Minister Haavisto, I drew attention to the fact that we are going to have a slight tax loss on this, and in a way it also gives me the idea that, once these issues have been agreed on at the EU tables, what kind of questions have been raised there from different countries. I myself am thinking, at least, of the fact that I am sure that many companies in the EU, for which intangible rights and IPR rights are important, are seeking competitiveness, for example, in China — many other major nationalities, but especially in China — which in some places has had a very aggressive policy in the area of trade expansion and is, of course, trying to get a foothold in the EU countries. In that sense, it would be interesting to know what these issues between the EU countries may have been like, on the one hand, some disagreements, and, on the other hand, how to see this relationship with China and some other emerging economies, among others.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u189	Before the Minister answers, Mr Wallinheim will be taken if there are any further questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u190	Mr President! I'd love to ask you a few more questions. The problem is real. At the moment, Finnish patents are increasingly being transferred to other parts of Europe. This is a matter of tax treatment, and in Finland 24% VAT on patents is disproportionately high. I know that Mr Haavisto is not the Minister for Taxation at the moment, but I am sure you know that, even now, we have aggressive countries in Europe that want patents there and want centres of expertise around patents. Among other things, Holland and Poland are examples of countries that are currently engaged in aggressive tax planning specifically for patents. And I would like to ask the Minister: has there been any review of this in the government, how many of these patents are currently leaving Finland to the rest of the world, and can there be a certain degree of competition in this way that we will lose the competitive advantage of these centres of excellence in the future? I hope that even if you are not the Minister of Taxation, you will somehow be able to take a stand on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u191	Like this. - And now, Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u192	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Wallinheim and Mr Kauman for their excellent contributions and for paying attention to the important issue. Indeed, these intellectual property rights and the fear that Finland will lose this inventiveness, innovation competence, income through the loss of patents and, of course, even whole innovative companies and this competition within Europe, but also internationally or globally, as has been said here — China has its finger at stake in all of this — are also in the government's ongoing debate. Why has this protocol and its entry into force been delayed? Now, on the one hand, this Brexit, as Mrs Wallinheimo has said — and this Protocol is also mentioned by name — and now the parties to the Protocol have made a new interpretation of how to move forward on this matter — and then, in this proposal, you can read that rather radical position of the German Constitutional Court, which has been there and which has been repealed by the German Parliament for its part, or has taken a different decision on it. That there have been these types of delays along the way. When it is not directly on my property in relation to these patent and tax issues, then perhaps I will not go further into this issue of intellectual property rights, but this problem is well-known in the government and comes up in a very large number of sectors today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u193	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which the Committee on Finance must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Let's go to the conversation. Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps there are some technical issues here, too, that there is now no Minister's presentation, even though this is a referral debate. As chairman of the Legal Committee, a few words about this. There is much in this proposal to update and clarify legislation that is already obsolete and may have been repealed, and some unnecessary and overlapping legislation. However, there is also a third proposal to amend the provisions of some of the laws of the ministry so that decisions which have been directly subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court can in future be subject to an appeal to the Administrative Court, as stated in the Law on Administrative Matters. Perhaps, at least in committee, we will draw attention to what is said here — and perhaps too often I regret that it is stated here too — that the proposal may have a ‘low impact’ on the workload of administrative rights and, on the other hand, on the workload of the highest administrative court. We have often discussed here the fact that administrative rights are rather blocked. Sometimes there are technical performances and smaller performances, and it may feel as a single performance that there is no such thing as a terrible effect now, but when you see so many of these over the years that ‘no-resource effects’ can be timed out. Although this is partly technical, there is also this fundamental view that our judicial and judicial systems are able and able to function in this increasing amount of work, especially given that the reform of the social security system will now also bring new categories to administrative courts and to market law. Yesterday, we had a long debate on the issue of war, and there was a need for several million euros of money, just because of the expectations of the increasing number of things in the war. We have to hear in committee what the courts think about this, that they always say only that 'low impact'. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u195	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 8/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Let us go to the general discussion. Chairman of the committee, Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u196	Mr President! The proposal proposes that, if there is reason to suspect that an employee has been exploited, he or she may be granted the right to work or to entrepreneurship without any restriction or restriction. A bona fide employer would not be allowed to recruit foreign workers subject to the availability test. The aim of the proposal is to prevent the exploitation of foreign labour. The committee supports the government's proposal with the following comments: First of all, since exploitation is often known to remain hidden, the display threshold should be kept low. Secondly, the proposed recruitment ban for the employer should be extended to all residence permits for employment. Thirdly, sufficient resources must be made available to implement these changes and, of course, they must be carefully communicated to these foreign workers, employers and contractors, but also between the authorities. The committee also proposes a number of technical amendments. Mr President! The report also contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u197	Like this. — and Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u198	Mr President! The chairman of the committee has already explained this to a large extent. It is absolutely essential that work-related immigration continue to occur in Finland, and it will certainly increase in number. I do not see any other way of fulfilling certain tasks that people do not want to find enough people to do otherwise. But at the same time, of course, it is serious that the system has not worked in all respects. That is why there are grounds for improving the position of people who have been victims of exploitation or at least are at risk. And it is a fundamental change that there is an opportunity to apply for work in Finland from another employer or another industry. That is why this proposal is appropriate. Mr President! In my opinion and in the view of the Assembly, it would be best to introduce such a good employer certificate in Finland, which means that employers who have all the conditions of employment proved fit and who also report on them and agree to a thorough investigation would then be able to recruit so-called line workers when they come from third countries. I think that would be an excellent way of resolving this issue, because it is of course self-evident that Finnish working conditions must be respected in Finnish working life. This is important because the competitive situation is balanced between companies and also between workers. That is why we must be able to deal with these abuses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u199	And Congressman Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u200	Mr President! The Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Gender Equality has presented its report on the government's proposal to amend the Aliens Act. The aim is to prevent the exploitation of foreign labour and to promote the emergence of occupational exploitation. The Group of the Party of European Socialists considers these objectives to be worthwhile, but considers that the threshold for evidence of abuse in the proposal has been set at an excessively low level. According to the proposal, the written statement or oral hearing of the employee must be considered sufficient grounds for the extension of the worker’s residence permit granted on the basis of the faulty procedure of the employer. In addition, in cases of doubt, a residence permit extension should always be granted to applicants for it. The proposal will easily lead to a situation in which a foreign worker should either deliberately seek out bad working conditions or at least falsely suggest that he or she has been exploited. It is also possible that the employer, by failing to comply actively with his obligations, would help his foreign worker to remain in the country. The availability of labour would not be investigated when granting a further permit. The government's proposal would also make it possible to extend the right to work without considering access. According to the Government's proposal, granting the extension of the residence permit would also not require that a foreigner's livelihood is secured. It should be noted that the draft law also allows for the continuation of the residence of the applicant's family members and, if necessary, a new family reunification. Such legislative changes will result in an increase in social benefit expenditure and a deterioration in the dependency ratio in our country, as foreigners working in low-wage sectors and their family members often use public services more often and receive income transfers more than they pay taxes. Mr President! Since exploitation of foreign labour is always increasing, the more cheap foreign labour is available, the only effective way to stop the immigration of cheap labour is to combat the exploitation of these people. In fact, Finns have suggested setting a minimum income limit for those seeking work in Finland. Instead of rewarding foreign workers for being exploited, the government should address the structural problem behind the exploitation phenomenon, namely the continued entry of cheap foreign workers. Mr President! This government proposal to prevent the exploitation of foreign labour easily leads to a situation in which a foreign worker should either deliberately seek out bad working conditions or at least falsely suggest that he has been exploited. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u201	Thank you. — Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u202	Mr President! In fact, we are here on a rather important issue. Certainly a lot of Finns have shrugged the headlines from time to time that when a Nepalese restaurant, when a clearly exploited workforce is clearly identified at another workplace, usually related to a clear underpaid salary and even a very gross exploitation until the salary has not been paid at all. It is a good thing that efforts are being made to address this. In that sense, the government proposal is welcome. I must say, however, that I am perhaps a little surprised that the whole of this is now interfering with matters which are not, in fact, the most important to deal with these questions, which I have said. At least at the time of 2018-19, when I myself, as Minister of the Interior, had to deal with this matter together with the then Minister for Labour, the message was quite clear from the inspectors and the police of the Regional State Administrative Agencies that the main problem is that these workers themselves, regardless of the type of change that is now at hand, are not capable or willing. Their inability to intervene in this situation may stem from the relationship with the employer in the country of origin and not just from the fact that there is now a situation of residence permits. A key instrument was then to create the possibility for the inspectors of the Regional State Administrative Agency to directly impose administrative sanctions on employers in situations where it is clear to the Authority that there is a gross wrong and that a legal basis should be created for this, i.e. an inspector of the Regional State Administrative Agency would have the right to directly impose administrative sanctions on entrepreneurs. The criminalisation of underpaid employment is, of course, a broad and difficult issue in relation to the Finnish collective bargaining system, but I think that it is a clear Achilles heel in the Finnish labour market system that, when we do not have a statutory minimum wage, we do not have the general preferences attached to TESes, then in fact there is no intervention by the authorities in such situations. Therefore, it would be reasonable for a clear underpaid person to be able to prosecute the public, so that the victim does not have to prosecute himself for fear of reprisals, but the authority intervenes in such a situation that it is clear to everyone. We hope that the government will be able to take these into account in the further work. Then, with regard to the government's proposal itself, I think it is a good idea to see that this consideration of access in this regard is opened up, i.e. if you are such a victim of exploitation you will be able to apply for another employer. It is clear that this has been one of the obstacles to victims' courage to intervene in their own situation, that they are imprisoned in a particular workplace, when access testing can be rather narrow in preventing other jobs from being applied for in the locality. I would also say that these situations also reflect the hollowness of the examination of access: although a legal work permit has been applied for through the examination of availability in an area in which the examination procedure exists, these cases of exploitation continue to arise. It checks the documents, that is to say, whether the wage in accordance with the collective agreement and the employer’s background is in good paper condition, but it does not tell us whether the salary in accordance with the contract of employment is ever actually paid into an account for which the employee has the sole right of access. I would be careful here that, on the same basis, this exploited person should be entitled to a new fixed-term residence permit for the purpose of seeking a new job or trying, if he is in a working relationship like this, and if he or she has to or will have to decide it, because there is, of course, the risk here to which the Finns of Finland have objected that there may be such desperate situations as to become consciously exploited in order to obtain a residence permit on other grounds for seeking employment or trying, although in practice employment in Finland is unlikely to take place. I think that it should always be based on that work and that work should exist in order to then be granted a residence permit. Addressing the employer’s ability to recruit a worker receiving a residence permit if there is reason to assume that the employer is guilty of such: There are also a lot of assumptions to be made here about the employer, but it is good if it can be determined proportionately so that it can be separated from the chaff, as it were. And, as Mr Satonen said here, this accreditation procedure would, of course, be a good way of making even stronger distinctions between the rightful employers — and they would quickly be given the workforce — and then the others. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u203	Thank you. — and Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u204	Mr President! I have followed this position and the regulatory environment of foreign workers long before I became a Member of Parliament as a researcher and I welcome this presentation because I think it is a great example of the long-awaited paradigm change in the work against the exploitation of foreign labour. Even though it is a very small step, that step shows that we are heading in the right direction. What is the key to this? The key is the understanding that without the emancipation of the workers themselves, no control and control, no closure of borders, no increase in the number of occupational safety and health commissioners, will be sufficient, because the only way to effectively get information about the exploitation relationship, possibly the situation of trafficking in human beings, is that either side is talking about it. As long as the employee has no interest in talking about abuse against him, there is no material or data that could be used by the authorities. A foreign worker operates on the same logic as a domestic employee. He strives to choose the best of the options available to him. Unfortunately, in our society quite many times the option that Finland can offer to a foreign worker is worse than what a exploitative employee, even a human traffickers, can offer to this person, and it is therefore difficult for the authorities to reach this point. The authorities will be helped to solve these problems if it opens up a brighter view of exploitation. The first step in this was at the time when, in the context of the availability exercise, individual residence permits per employee were converted into sector-specific permits a few years ago, and now other small steps have been taken. But it's still a long way to go. I myself am rather skeptical about the effectiveness of this proposal because it creates such a complex system that, personally, I do not believe that many workers who have ended up in the situation of exploitation of foreigners will receive sufficient information so that they can take advantage of this mechanism on their own initiative. In addition, there is still a lack of understanding that the most extensive cases we have on the labour market are not born in a vacuum but are born in a terrain where there is no such thing as:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u205	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u206	Thank you, Mr President. And thank Mrs Mykkänen that when we talk about these problems of immigration and cheap labour, let us listen to the idea of what can actually happen there. Perhaps the ideology of this current government is well reflected in my view in our terminology of increasing harmful immigration, that is, the one that is heavy on public finances and also causes cultural clashes, which are also very foreign to us. From there we know ways that are not in line with our social order. In this presentation, which the Finns have made, I think it is very well and reasonably thought that these proposals of amendment have been based on the idea that a foreigner may be granted this at the discretion of the public. Now we're turning this into automation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u211	Thank you. — and Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u212	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the foreign law to prevent the exploitation of foreign labour and to improve the legal status of the victim of labour exploitation. The aim of the proposal is also to promote the emergence of occupational exploitation. A foreigner who works on the basis of a residence permit could be granted the right to work without any restriction or restriction on the profession or business activity if there are reasonable grounds to suspect that his employer has significantly failed to fulfil his obligations as an employer or otherwise. In addition, on the same basis, he would be entitled to a new fixed-term residence permit for the purpose of applying for a new job or trying. These changes would improve the legal status of a foreign worker. It is to be welcomed that these abuses are addressed and attempted to be tackled as comprehensively as possible. I do not know how this proposal envisages the inclusion of a working group on trafficking in human beings to be set up in the police, and in what way these abuses will be investigated more actively in the future. These proposed provisions are intended to protect the victims of occupational exploitation while at the same time promoting the detection of exploitation. And the granting of an extension of the right to work or the extension of the right to work on the basis of a reprehensible procedure by the employer will improve the worker's chances of leaving the employer who has abused him without fear of losing his right of residence and being forced to leave the country. That is something to be welcomed. I myself will also pay attention to this matter, which is what the Finns of Peru are protesting against. They have drawn attention to the statement in the explanatory memorandum of the Government's proposal that the written statement or oral hearing of an employee should be considered sufficient grounds for the granting of an extension of the permit to be granted on the grounds of the employer's reprehensible procedure and that, in cases of doubt, the extension of the permit should always be granted to the applicant. There must be reflection and some sort of work to be done on the follow-up. This also applies to the evidence of the extension of the right to work issued by the employer on the basis of a reprehensible procedure. In other words, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kontula, has pointed out here, it is a good thing to improve the status of workers on residence permits. At the same time, however, we must also take account of these marginal conditions and also ensure that this is not exploited in such a way as to deliberately search for loopholes in this, so that it can then lead to its exploitation. But the whole proposal is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u213	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u214	Mr President! It is a question of this law that an immigrant working on a residence permit may be granted the right to work without a restriction on the profession of employment of another employer if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that his employer has failed to fulfil his obligations or there are grounds for suspecting exploitation. The starting point for this law is very good, but it is also worth pointing out the points raised in that committee report. One of them is evidence of suspicion. It must, of course, be true that this can be done, and, just as Mr Meri said, in a certain way, the questions of the legal security of its employer should also be taken into account here. It is also possible that the reputation of some employers is, in a way, unduly ruined if such abuse has not taken place. In a certain way, we should also consider this aspect of sanctions. On the other hand, I was also thinking about the solution advocated by Mr Satose that there would be such an employer's accreditation system. It is certainly a worthy proposal that it should certainly be more useful to find out how it could be created in such a way that it would be a sufficiently functional, flexible and reliable system. Moreover, that report has also been somewhat criticised, or at least said, that a whole new procedure is now being created to obtain the right to work. It is also, in a way, an extension of the way in which the right to work can be acquired in a new way, compared with the current situation. I would also like to point out that about a year ago I asked the Minister a written question about the fact that, for the immigrant himself, our law is a little retrograde in the sense that at the moment work permits are limited to the professional sector. When a residence permit is based on the fact that the income from work must be able to live, and last year, for example, there was a gross income minimum of EUR 1236, for example, in this situation of interest, where we have been, some people have had difficulty getting these necessary incomes, which are required as a basis for a residence permit, together from only one professional sector. In order to receive additional income, you must then apply for a residence permit based on the income of another professional sector, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u217	All right. — Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u218	Mr President! Good speeches have been made on this. In fact, perhaps a certain conclusion, which I would like to say for myself, is that there are several aspects to this issue, but I think it is perhaps right now to distinguish between what is the main rule and what is the secondary plot and what is the secondary plot. Let us start by saying that, at least, my own view is that most of the work-related immigrants in Finland – even in my locality there are many from outside the EU – are highly trusted employers who also employ dozens of Finns. Some of them are in the service of my own hometown. I'm sure they've got the working conditions in place. So I'm saying that most of those who come as an immigrant from work are in good shape. The second point is that, in addition to that, we have information, as has been the case recently, and there have probably been people who have been using this system all along. Mr Mykkänen mentioned the Nepalese canteens, and similar examples have been found, the Chinese stonemen and so on. Of course, even in such a situation, I believe that it is mainly the case that these people who have come to these tasks have themselves imagined that their affairs are being dealt with in a sensible way, but then it turns out that they are not being dealt with. This is the situation that this little one is trying to respond to. Then there is the tributary of the secondary plot, that is, the third thing that someone misuses this system in the first place, that someone simply wants to lure people here and is not meant to pay properly, and in some cases even the comer himself would be satisfied — as the Finns refer to — that this way, as it were, would allow himself to sneak in here, because he already knows that this employment relationship is not decent but that he can only come here. I'm sure there are some of these, and this is something that needs to be taken into account. That is why it is important that this be followed up, and it was also the committee's point of view that this matter should be followed up. But I now see that this is quite a tributary on this issue, not the main issue. The main thing is that we get that workforce here under proper conditions, and that is why we would need this certification system, which would make it very far-reaching, and then we need more control and more resources to control it, so that we can deal with these abuses. And, as Mr Mykkänen said, it makes sense to criminalise underpaid employment, when there is a clear case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u219	And Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u220	Mr President! I will take the floor to comment on some of the arguments, themes and ideas raised here. First of all, even in this protest of the Finns of Peru, the idea that this law would be abused in such a way as to enter the country. Well, if a person comes from third countries, from the countries covered by this bill of access, and he is already in Finland, why on earth would he use such a very difficult and hasardic instrument when it is much easier for him to seek asylum and to stay with its application for asylum for about the same time as what would enable him to stay here? I do not see such a risk in any way as relevant, unless, then, you happen to be a person who is not well-informed about the system that you cannot use these more robust systems. In other words, if anyone wanted to do this, they could already do so now, and yet we know that there are not very many people who have arrived on a work permit who have applied for asylum. There's so few of them. Rather, we have a problem with the fact that we even have victims of trafficking who prefer not to seek help because the option is not attractive enough. Well, Congressman Meri suggested that the proposal's extension rights include automation and that there should be reflection. Well, the presentation involves that consideration. We are not going to make a motion that someone will march on the official and say that I have been abused, give me a residence permit. It is always on the basis of public authority judgement and, however, requires that, even if it is based on an employee's report, it should be credible for the most likely reasons. Well, Mr Mykkänen said here that since barriers often arise at home — indeed often at home — I would not say ‘often’ when the question of the use of labour or trafficking in human beings,but often —the administrative consequences for such entrepreneurs would be a better way of doing so. I disagree with you on this. Why? Because the administrative sanction always requires legal certainty for its entrepreneur, and it is behind a much heavier burden of proof than trying to strengthen the position of the worker himself in order to speak, would at least give some evidence to those suspected abusers. In other words, such administrative sanctions and other sanctions may work at the most late stage of the process, but the key to getting anything at all is that someone is talking. And as long as we are unable to emancipate the workers in such a way that they, like Finnish workers, have sufficient confidence in the system, they have sufficient security mechanisms to be able to talk to the authorities, so long as no sanction systems are of any use to us. As far as the criminalisation of underpaid employment is concerned, I agree that hopefully it will be soon. Then, more generally, some of the assumptions made in this debate. In my opinion, it is childish to assume when talking about living people that you can get all the benefits, squeeze people away without giving anything yourself, that you can leave the assumption that there is somewhere in the world a system that we can only bring in super-productive foreign workers who give and give to this society without giving anything. There is no such world. Nor does there exist a world that is presented by the Finns of Peru, where we could somehow prevent the entry of people with lower wages by some kind of ban or method, and then we just wouldn't have a foreign, foreign labour force with less than three tons of wages working here. Under EU conditions, this is completely unrealistic, because we can still get from several countries with significantly lower incomes all the time without any availability considerations or other systems just how many people are coming from there, if only that route is attractive from the workers' point of view. But as far as third countries are concerned, trying to find such a solution in itself would significantly increase undeclared work with all its mild temperaments and lead so strongly from a ditch to an ally that no one’s rubber boots would be enough without water. It is clear that whenever a system is created someone is using the system, always, but I find it very suspicious that this issue is given weight on the basis of people's citizenship or socio-economic status in different ways. I would point out that when a reform is being carried out in this Chamber, for example, about the household allowance, then not every speech will be made about how this target group is likely to use this system in some way. Why not? Because its target group is wealthy Finnish citizens, whom this hall is completely different from those of poor foreign workers who seek to choose the best of the much smaller options at their disposal. These prejudices are always with us, but I think it is important that they are also said and identified because they determine how we deal with the various legislative processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u221	Like this. — Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u222	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kontula for his detailed speech and also for his replies to several comments here. That's good. Perhaps that is what I am going to say to you, Mr Kontula: the victim is always in a position to get him to speak in order to act in any direction. However, I have not come up with this need for administrative sanctions on my own, but it was in the discussions between the Regional State Administrative Agency and the police that three years ago that the main means came to light that there were also situations in which, for various reasons, the fact that the victim himself was going to take action and break away from the situation was not realistic, but the authorities saw that there were obvious omissions which could be addressed if such a direct administrative sanction existed. It cannot be brought before a court of law today without the victim himself pressing charges, and it rarely happens again. These people are often also in such a position that they may not even know how to break it down, even though this is an attempt to empower them — something that is necessary in itself, for there are also cases in which, for example, a person with good luck can get into another employment relationship opens up this situation. In fact, I asked for the floor because here I read this report from the committee, I am somewhat concerned that the implementation of this must not in any way lead to a situation where the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service are not sufficient to streamline the work-related process of residence permits when dealing with the necessary shortcomings in the asylum system and now, in this case, with the exploitation of the labour force. This is where the committee states that the 70 fixed-term person-years allocated from the beginning of this year to the processing of immigration-related applications are sufficient to ensure that these matters are taken care of as well. However, the Administrative Committee notes in its opinion that on average it will take much more time for the Finnish Immigration Service to investigate cases of abuse than has been estimated in the proposal, and there is concern as to whether these resources will be sufficient. It should not be the case that our important objective of achieving the granting rate of a month's work-related residence permit, which is also contained in this government's government programme, and which in itself is at the level of declarations, such as the declarations of the mid-term term, has been pushed forward, is once again in practice sacrificed because the resources are not enough when new tasks are introduced without the old objectives being met. And perhaps such a qualitative point in this respect is the fact that, as we see from the need for this proposal too, it is not even possible to prevent access to employment relationships that are obviously exploitation relationships, because on paper they make them look like something else, that what if we were to give up access considerations in general and transfer its resources to ex post control? The question of availability is a very labour intensive sector, mainly in the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) and also in the Finnish Immigration Service (Maahanmuuttovirasto). By this post-control, I mean, for example, what we started then three years ago, but the time ran out — that the Incomes Register should be linked to the UMA system so that the automatics of the Finnish Immigration Service can check regularly whether it has been paid in accordance with the TES, and then, if it is done in cash, it will be subjected to special checks. This would catch up much more with these problems than with access testing today, and whether things are as if they were in order in that employment relationship could also be taken as a basis for granting further permits, i.e. whether it should be granted further permits. I also stress that while I think it is worth facilitating immigration to work in Finland, it must also be quite precise that we establish it in genuinely legal employment relationships, and a permanent residence permit should be conditional on a long-term career or education in Finland. The fact that we are granting permanent residence permits and citizenships without either of them is likely to cause a variety of mild phenomena. Asylum applications are not always an option for exploited workers from certain countries, i.e. insofar as they can apply for a residence permit now as a result of these HE-changes, some of them are concerned. Finally, I would like to say to the speaker that, unfortunately, moving to or without exploitation status in Finland constitutes a number of problems for society. I do not believe that many people have come to Finland to want to be dependent on the state, but unfortunately, at the moment, our system is creating situations where we are permanently dependent on subsidies, and one part of it is this possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits without a job relationship. We are doing this as a disservice to people when we create an opportunity in which, in fact, one can rely on subsidies to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u223	Thank you. — and Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u224	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment on that earlier speech on automation. Here, in the protest of the Group of the Finnish People's Party, it appears that, according to the arguments put forward by the government's proposal, a written statement by the employee is sufficient: 'I declare that this has happened,in an oral hearing,that this has happened. “ The proposal also states that, in the event of unclear situations, further authorisation should be granted. Isn't this automation? [Let Kontula spin his head] Then, as far as these things are concerned, it is not possible to set a minimum income: I mean, why can't we? We have an independent state, we have boundaries, so that [Arto Satose’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u225	And Mr. Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u226	Mr President! I think that this is a good debate which would in fact require a much wider debate and more often to be held here in the Chamber, because I at least have the impression that on the other side of the Chamber, in a way, the shadow of doubt is cast on what the motivation and motive of the person who is coming here for a residence permit is at all, but then on the other side of the Chamber, it is as if it is being insulted if even a little is suspected of what the motive might be. Yes, when laws are enacted, we must, in a way, take all possible aspects into account. Most of the people who are going to come here are certainly those who have good intentions in mind and who want to support themselves and their families, but the sad fact is that there are always those who are doing wrong and exploiting the system. And just as Mr Mykkänen said, our problem with the system is that it is, as it were, too easy for people to support, and so I personally believe that a permanent residence permit should always be based on that work permit and a job. The kind of system I hope Finland will go to at some point is the same as in Canada, where there is a kind of express entry system where you are already applying for that job in your own country. It has been organised by Canada at both the provincial and state level, which means that these places are already being applied for there in the country. Different capacities give you points when applying for tasks, and then they become residence permits. A similar system is going on and some of it went on in Britain after Brexit. In other words, in a certain way, the whole decision-making process and the application process will move to the previous stage rather than when the person is already in the country. Mr President! Just as I have just said, I would like to continue with this professional work permit to the extent that I believe that Finland must be receptive to those who want to work and are not prejudiced as to the areas in which they operate. In other words, they could receive the income required for a residence permit from a number of professional sectors, i.e., as I said, such as a magazine dealer, a cleaner, a club counselor and so on, and then they could get it with the same permission. Of course, we also have a lot of people who have higher education but who work here who are much less demanding, and that too is something we need to pay attention to. We have such a system here in Finland that we value only our own education, qualifications and diplomas, but if you come from elsewhere, then work with them and work with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u227	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u228	Mr President! I have already thought that I will say no more about this when, in fact, in previous speeches I have already expressed a great deal of my opinion, but after Mrs Mere's speech I had to take the floor. Your proposal for this EUR 3000 provision will lead to a disaster.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u231	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u232	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen, I did quote that in your previous speech you referred to the views of the Avi and the police. I see that they represent the old paradigm in quite a number of respects, and I do not think that their view is effective precisely when we are trying to reduce the exploitation of foreign labour and, consequently, to create different rules on the labour market. I look at this as a sociologist whose perspective comes from the fact that, before becoming a Member of Parliament, I studied a foreign grey labour force and, among other things, I lived among the builders of Olkiluoto and interviewed them. I saw a number of different cases of labour exploitation, I heard even more, and none of them were caught by our authorities, because the people who could reveal the world to a sociologist did not dare to do that to our authorities. And this is not the only place, of course, but only as an example. That is why I do not trust the way forward through administration and control, although I believe that these are the means that are needed. But they do not lead very far alone or even as a priority. I agree with you about giving up access. We have strong grounds for this. This talk about workers typically being left to subsidies: No, they won't. I just saw that 1.2% of the people who came here on a work permit depend on social benefits. I do not remember or revise this figure, but, in any case, the speech is much less than any part of the population. To Mrs Merelle, if you misunderstand so much when you hear someone else's speech, then you should read to get there. I am not going to answer it, because what had been heard went so far from what I had said that it did not create a dialogue. To Mr Kauma, I did not criticise the fact that when laws are enacted, all aspects are taken into account. It's important, and it's the right thing to do. On the other hand, I criticise the fact that, for certain groups, it is much easier to assume that other groups are involved than that which is the main thing about it. Congressman Kauma, how many misappropriations have you given?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u233	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u234	Mr President! It is a good thing that the debate on the substance of the matter in itself continues, and to Mr Kontula we thank him for his detailed response to the points I have also made. Perhaps here you look as a sociologist and I as such a blue-green economist and economist education can be accompanied by a certain realism that can sometimes be hateful about humanity. As a realist, I see it this way — and also, and in particular, on the basis of the experience of the Minister for the Interior, when I have discussed the situation in different countries: For example, Ylva Johansson, then Swedish Minister for Labour, who is now the EU Commissioner for Immigration, felt very clearly three years ago that it would not be advisable to open the possibility for asylum seekers to apply for a work-related residence permit, because in Sweden it has led to false grounds being made. Of course, it is not being dealt with in the HE currently before us — it is obviously a government issue in the rest of the foreign law — but it is linked in the same mirror to the fact that I am afraid that there is a normal situation when certain countries move abroad, that it can be said to you that, okay, you will now come into exploitation conditions for two years and then you will receive a second residence permit when you report this to the authorities. This is also the way the world is, and that is why it must be taken into account here. As such, there are examples of countries which, as it were, can clearly expand work-related immigration from what we currently have in Finland, but to be careful not to rely heavily on those seeking to live on subsidies, or, it is said, not on subsidies for reasons other than work-related reasons. Canada, for example, brought up by the representative of Kauma, is in this direction. In fact, quite a large part of the world's surface area and also of the developed and high standard of living countries in the world pursue an immigration policy that is quite different from what we in Finland and the Nordic countries have applied to a certain point. In fact, Sweden and Denmark too have clearly changed their practices away, which means that Finland is becoming a very rare exception. Of course, I am not saying that we should go in Japan or Australia, but these are existing models, contrary to what Mr Kontula may have said. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would like to say to the Finns on this basic situation in the labour market that by far the main rule is that Finnish unemployed people are not physically competing with foreign workers in legal employment relationships. As Mr Satonen listed here, there are a number of situations in which we have labour shortages and we have them in every province, including here in Helsinki. A huge amount of work and production would not be born if there were no foreign workers, and in fact there would also be less job opportunities and well-being in Finland. Let's take one more timely example... [The PresidentAnuVehviläinen : Representative Mr Mykkänen,I am sure that 3minutes have passed but you may be transferred to the podium if you wish. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u237	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Silent and Satonen, you should have read this as a difference between us. It says here: ‘For non-necessary seasonal workers, the limit may be, for example, EUR3000. “ This was unread by you. Then, apparently, the Swedish Coalition Party is on the wrong track when they want to prevent the work being done on social aid. I mean, there's research on these things, right? For example, in the capital region, income support alone is 45% for people with immigrant backgrounds. It's not like it doesn't tell me anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u241	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u242	Mr President! A few more details for this debate. Mr Kontula, you pointed out that when was the last time I would have talked about the situation of the underprivileged or the difficult position of those with foreign backgrounds, that I would rather talk about household reductions in the upper middle class and so on. Mr President, Mr Kontula, I believe that we Members of Parliament are here for all Finns, and as far as the household allowance is concerned, the intention is, of course, to develop a system that will benefit as many Finns as possible. There are, among other things, problems with the informal economy that, if it does not exist, a considerable number of services will then be acquired without payment of taxes and without employers' contributions. The second group, which I think is also worth talking about in terms of abuse, as regards the labour market, are young people, because they often do not have the experience of working life and the experience of labour law, and in some cases there are also abuses, as they have been, underpaid, too few breaks in work or incorrectly treated, for example, in working shift arrangements and so on. So there are other groups than those from foreign backgrounds, but of course their situation is the most vulnerable in such a way that they do not in principle have networks here and do not have the kind of knowledge of society that they can get help from, as many others do. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to say that, of course, preventing the rights and abuse of workers of foreign origin is something on which we must work. I myself recently saw — and perhaps many others here — a programme of immigrants from West Africa to the Canary Islands, who then come to the land of destination and wait for a better life, and when the better life for them is that they live in those tent villages on the outskirts of large cities and work on tomato plantations for an hour's salary of 1 or 2 euros, then it certainly does not correspond to the dream of life that they had had had. In view of the fact that these problems are often extended and shared at European level, of course we do not want this kind of practice in Finland, but we want the rights of persons of foreign origin and respect for human dignity to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u243	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u244	Mr President! First, Mr Mykkänen's example from Canada. After all, Canada has a huge grey sector, in which the number of undocumented migrants has to stand up, precisely because the official channels of entry are so tight that it is very difficult to get there. In Canada, too, there is still a fairly unknown phenomenon in Finland, an overgeneration of paperwork, where there is already a second generation or, in some cases, even a third generation of illegal immigrants. Regarding this income support to Mrs Merelle in the capital region, you said that it does indicate that people with an immigrant background receive income support exceptionally often in the capital region. First of all, these statistics do not apply to work-related immigration, but it is true that it tells us something. It tells us that these people have, on average, less access to earnings-related benefits than the Finns. You need to know the income support system and the basis for determining it in order to understand the situations in which you receive income support. The basic setting behind it is that it is people who depend on basic security or... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u247	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u248	Mr President! One thing that can always be forgotten in this debate is that Finland has the worst dependency relationship in Europe. We are the Japan of Europe. All the time Finland is greying, we have more and more people retiring, and this means that people are leaving the labour market enormously. Some studies have calculated that we would need about 15,000 work-related immigrants for the next 15 years in order to restore our dependency relationship. When we actually talk about 200,000 to 300,000 migrant workers, this is already such a huge exercise that we cannot do that, even if we can get all the people who are currently unemployed in Finland to work rationally. We can roughly divide our unemployed into three different sections in the sense that if we have an average of 300,000 to 400,000 unemployed, one third of them will be able to find employment right away, one third after rehabilitation and one third not at all. And this won't be enough. We must solve these issues in this Chamber, hopefully as quickly as possible, how we will get the workforce to Finland in the future. The first big step is where we find the nurses for this nursing qualification in the 2030s. We need 30,000 new nurses in this country. With these current levels of education it will not happen, so we must in some way solve these problems. I feel that all the political parties are currently holding their heads in the sand about what we are doing to this. How are we going to fix our dependency relationship in the future and get more work-related immigration here?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u250	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u251	Mr President! It's a very important topic of conversation. Here, too, I would have addressed why this enabling of labour migration from third countries and smooth processes are genuinely important, even though we have this domestic market of almost 500 million people, from which we operate with more fluent permits. Of course, that is one of its own red tape. In this regard, Mrs Wallinheimo also well described the situation that our demography is such that if we want to maintain welfare services in such a financial way in ten years' time — so that we do not have too many people working in the whole population — as in fact we do have factors to work in the service sector in practice, physically, then we need a doubling of work-related immigration. The government has also set itself — this government too — its goal. And within the EU, almost all countries are actually facing the same ageing challenge. We cannot solve this issue internally within the EU, but must be able to recruit from outside and compete. Well, special experts are a special issue, and they already have their own class, i.e. this EUR 3000 salary limit, which the Finns of Finland are now proposing for all immigration — that is, there is a pay limit for specialist experts, as a condition in addition to training. And it is good that when recruiting for such tasks — often more urgent, and so that the employee in general is interested in Finland, he does not want to be caught up in the six-month or one-year process — they do so more quickly and are exempted from access testing. And even that time should be squeezed even shorter, and that too should be pursued. But we do also need workers in the service sector to a large extent, and then the honest fact is that we also need employees in pay groups that earn less than average wages. We simply do not have the pull to find enough people for these tasks in general, and this is the only way to run this system. Representative Kontula: I appreciate this in-depth reflection about these. And to these philosophical differences between the abuse of domestic deduction and the fight against illegal immigration: it is certainly true that we have the possibility of circumventing the domestic deduction if we take the risk and the tax authorities do not necessarily check the receipts and so on, and that is certainly what the tax authorities are doing, and they should of course try to address it. And it may be that, of course, these assessments may be influenced by the kind of social pressure and the kind of fear there is. However, the adverse effects of illegal immigration and the associated mild phenomena are, of course, even more diverse; they are not just tax revenue lost, so that there is a certain difference here. And yet it is quite a central concern that Finland does not
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u252	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u253	Madam President! Just a brief word on this point. When this organisation of immigration is a complex issue, I would like us not to confuse work-related immigration and humanitarian immigration. Especially for the Finns of Peru, as in previous speeches, these are easily confused on purpose. It goes without saying that people who have come to Finland, for example, as asylum seekers or their family members — they have had other reasons to come here than work — it also means that many of them have come from refugee camps and their education is inadequate and they do not have the skills that make it easy for them to find employment in Finland. Of course, it is also important for us to get them employed as much as possible. But it goes without saying that people, especially those from certain regions, particularly from the Middle East and also from Africa, will of course show that a higher percentage of them are unemployed and also depend on social security. But then they are quite different from those who come directly here to work, and they have now been touched by this debate. And without that group we will not be able to manage, but we also need those people here for the reasons that Mr Mykkänen has just mentioned, that is, because we ourselves do not have enough manpower for all these tasks and, as Mrs Wallinheim well described here, we are not able to find the Finnish workforce in all the places, even though we have a lot of unemployed people. That too should be done much better than what has been done. But in any case, we are in a situation where it is a certain reality that work-related immigration is needed, if and when we want to hold on to the welfare society, we want to hold on to Finland's economic growth, we want to hold on to tax revenue and the fact that this whole society is spinning in general, as our population ages and thus also the need for services in certain nursing jobs grows and so on. So I'd like to call for this big picture to be understood. This humanitarian aspect is a matter of its own. Of course, when Finland is part of the international community, we want to take responsibility there for our part and then have a certain responsibility for those human situations. But there are things that we must regulate in such a way that humanitarian immigration is in relation to our carrying capacity. And then you also have to understand that it is not as easy to work there as it is with the people who come here to work directly, there is a skill that is directly relevant to the tasks that are available here. In other words, I think it is important to understand this big picture in this matter — and not to confuse these two different types of issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u254	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u255	Mr President! I would like to comment on that speech by Mr Kontula. First of all, you have just said that you yourself identify with these poor immigrants. Of course, one might point out that the MP has a pretty good annual and monthly fee, so that if it does identify with them then it is quite unusual to me, but of course each one of us has his reasons why he thinks as he thinks. The second question to which I drew attention in your speech was that you said that this Canadian express entry model would be the reason why there are undocumented workers in Canada under illegal circumstances, at least this is how I understood your speech. It is now the case that this model came into force in 2015 and it came into force precisely in response to the fact that the system that came into the country by then was not in order and was paperless and those who worked on different short and short term permits. The aim was to create this system in order to achieve an integrated approach, that is to say, it was the answer rather than leading to these paperless ones. Mr President! I would also like to point out that, some years ago, there was talk of cleaning workers with African background who had been very badly exploited in their employment relationship, who had been employed without pay or on a very insignificant salary, but unfortunately it also became apparent in this case that some of these employers, who were involved in it, were not of Finnish origin but also of immigrant origin, i.e. when this issue is so complex, it also involves the mutual exploitation of immigrants. It is not only that Finnish employers are doing this, but there are indeed these employers from an immigrant background. I would like to emphasise that the majority of people with foreign background who come to work here are those who want to work honestly, but there are also those abusers, and the same applies, of course, to the employer field. It is a pity that a few such mismanagement companies or organisations will easily ruin the reputation of the industry as a whole, and that needs to be changed. I hope that this law will then contribute to our taking steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u256	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u257	Mr President! The debate on this matter of foreign law has been somewhat expanded, but it is precisely on this issue that we can address the abuse and abuse of these workers who come here with a residence permit that is important and worthy of support, as I pointed out earlier. It is important, however, that we also have the framework conditions and that we also have a clear definition of what to do and what not to do, which is not allowed, for both employers and workers. That is why, in Mr Kontula's comments, I am a little surprised that he is now comparing these abuses, these loopholes, the exploitation of the system, the exploitation of the household allowance. After all, even in the case of a household allowance, if you do it wrong, you say it wrong, there are sanctions as much as there are others. After all, we have a separately agreed procedure for doing things in Finland if you are acting in violation of the tax law. That there's no point in turning this into a social class issue. Of course, we must have certain rules, and we must not be too naive about things either, but we must certainly help and support the weaker and help them to access the service system in such a way as to be able to do so. And, as I said, we in Finland need work-related immigration, and it will only grow. It is important to ensure that working conditions are in order. The representative, Mr Kauma, made a good point here. This is indeed a point where education and training are certainly needed for them, because quite often there are such immigrant backgrounds, such as different Oriental restaurants, which are then exploited and perhaps do not see or know the health and safety laws of the Finnish legal system. It must also consider how to improve this issue. After all, there are often large numbers of families working there, and children can also be used, so that this is a little more extensive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u258	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u259	Mr President! Representative for Satonen: I agree with you on many points, but the complexity of immigration starts from the fact that people are complicated, that people are not really just employees or in need of humanitarian help or someone's spouse, but most people who come here for love want to go to work, that many people who seek asylum here want to go to work, and it is very possible that someone who has come here for a job will decide to have a family here with someone else and stay here for family reasons. That is why it is difficult for us to deal with our foreign legislation simply by dividing it into work-related immigration or something else, because people do not divide in this way — as we Finns do not. We all exist at the same time in many different sectors. Mr Kauma, I did not say that I have a certain connection with the foreign low-wage labour force. Well, that would be a little funny, wouldn't it? That's right. Canada's immigration policy. Canada has been paying particular attention to work-related immigration for a long time and has been an example of the international immigration policy debate as a traveler of its own for at least twenty years now, as I have followed it. In other words, although reforms have now been carried out, the effects of which are not yet known from nearby times because Trump's actions on the US side have now affected the amount of paperlessness and, of course, the consequences of this year's 2015, in the longer term we know that the line that Canada has built has produced a significant phenomenon of paperlessness and, in particular, the black economy as a labour force. Representative to Laiho: Twice I tried to explain this, and I do not really know how to put it any better. I didn't say that somewhere... The reason why I compared the household allowance and this issue at hand was because the two target groups differ in socio-economic and cultural terms. And I claim that because the target group is different, they are treated differently in this Chamber, they are associated with different preconceptions and, in particular, with both of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u260	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u261	Madam President! We have a small section on the amendment of the foreign law. In my opinion, there is a risk that it can be misused and misused. Since the debate has expanded a little, so... During that day, Minister Saarikko said that we needed more manpower here. Mr President! If this tax and punishment of entrepreneurs continues at this rate in this country, then we will no longer need workers from abroad. If this trend continues, we will be freed from the trade sector. So they're ordering stuff from abroad these days. Let's go see sneakers, pants, washing machines, and others at some big hypermarkets. Let's look at them there, bring the size and the model, go home and order them online. And from there, foreign drivers will bring that stuff here. If this business goes on like this, it is quite obvious that there will be a lot of manpower out there to do the work that you are now looking for experts for. That was two or three years ago when I met one of the IT managers, and he said already then that a real expert will not come here because the expert understands what taxation is here. There's no point in him coming here. They'll be able to cross the net to do those jobs elsewhere. In some way they will receive their wages there, and if they are in such a land that they need to pay less tax, they will be very pleased there. Especially when in many lands food is even cheaper and living cheaper, why should it come here to the cold in the middle of winter? It is as if it has been completely forgotten that automation and robotization are developing. This is where we increasingly need more and less, I believe, in the future. Many technologies are developing, as you are now probably aware of. Then, if people here want an employee from abroad to come to those jobs — yes, I myself understand that an entrepreneur may take an employee from abroad here — it should, in my opinion, be in a way that the first-comer and employer agree in some way on that pay. Then, when he comes here, the employer also has some responsibility for the employee when it is agreed that we will take you to work. I myself have followed these things and got close to seeing when you have received a work permit. I believe that admission should only be allowed with a work permit, i.e. in the country as a country and in the country with a work permit. Now it is so close that yesterday’s news and today’s news have been that the golden egg that came to the academy has raped a couple of girls again in Seinäjoki. Yes, I am very sorry that in two years such an immigrant will receive a certificate of graduation from such a tolerant school. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u264	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-02-ps-69.u265	Mr President! I also think it is very important not to label people who come here in such a way that there are misconceptions as to the extent to which these phenomena are related. And I would like to say that, as I and many of us have said here before today, it is important that a permanent residence permit in Finland and citizenship should be based on sufficient work and study history, and that we should specifically integrate into work, not become unemployed. At the same time, I say that Finnish educational institutions are absolutely right to recruit students from abroad with reasonable criteria. It is important for many places, and it is also a good way to get ties to Finland and a long-term workforce who knows Finnish education. There, of course, language issues have to be resolved, and there are challenges of this kind, I'm sure there are. The reason I actually asked for the floor at the end is because I wanted to draw attention to one thing. This Government proposal also states that it is proposed to transfer the Advisory Board on Employment and residence permits for foreign workers from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The proposal supports the prevention of labour exploitation and relates to the transfer of the administration of labour entry from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy from the beginning of 2020. I believe that this is the right objective, and I myself have already recommended in the last government negotiations, when I was the Minister of the Interior of the government, that we should bring the immigration administration together. But let me just say here that there are some people who try to manage work-related immigration in different situations or its legislation, that the fact that the legislative responsibility for the articles of work-related immigration is transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy does not make the summer yet. The main thing would be to gather the work and study permits of the Finnish Immigration Service, the persons who do this, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Joint Unit with the TE Offices responsible for these same matters, and also the officials sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by this service who manage them. Then we would form this sort of like an international recruitment unit, called it an agency or whatever. People would be transferred from the current tasks, and this unit would have a clear leadership that would be responsible for the results of the smooth processes and the flow of information. At the moment, the career system of the TE Offices and the UMA system of the Finnish Immigration Service do not really want to talk to each other, and at least three years ago they even sent papers by fax, which were then recorded in another system. No wonder nine months was a queue of work-related residence permits when I began as Minister of the Interior. This is also important in preventing abuse, because here many information remains on the road and it is too difficult to put it together when things are divided into different units.
