ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 2/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the sitting of 23.3.2021. The draft amending budget will now be examined in detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate ended at the plenary session on 23 March021 The debate, supported by Mr Jani Mäkelä, has been attended by Mr Mauri Peltokangas, who has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Henriksson, please, var så god.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u5	Mr President, värderade talman! At the beginning of May last year, the provisions of the enforcement cycle laying down the conditions for the reduction, limitation and suspension of enforcement of the enforcement procedure were provisionally amended by law. This temporary law was in force until 31 October 2020, after which the provisions were extended until 30 April 2021 by the new interim law. The present proposal would extend the provisional law by eight months, i.e. until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u6	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for Justice for this has come quickly, and we, too, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, will endeavour to get this through quickly under the chairmanship of Mr Mere. What is important here is that this regulation should continue without interruption after the expiry of the law currently in force. Then we will have a total duration, I think, of a year and eight months, when this would be the whole thing. Of course, it is a long time, but we have not been able to predict the length of the crisis, and all the measures will of course be taken that it is possible for the debtor, regardless of exceptional circumstances, to continue to operate in business or other activities without making this situation too difficult. There are good withdrawals here, as in previous legislation, it is precisely in this payment period, then in those months of leave and in this weakened ability to pay. So thank you for your promptness. I know that the Ministry of Justice normally has very limited resources to prepare the law, but this has progressed very rapidly. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u7	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u8	Mr President! It is indeed important that, as Mr Ovaska said above, the changes in the enforcement cycle and these other facilitations of enforcement, which have now been made because of the situation caused by the corona crisis, should be followed up, and this is good. We now need all the necessary measures that can only be taken to ease the situation of debtors and those in various financial difficulties. It is now necessary. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice how he is doing to prepare this positive credit register. I think it is very important, of course, in this crisis situation, but more generally. After all, we in the centre have argued that this default marking could leave the credit register six months after the debt has been settled, but it should nevertheless be linked to this positive credit registry reform. My question is this: how is this reform going? Would it be possible to rush it now, in these circumstances, when a great many entrepreneurs and employees, including many other citizens, have come into financial difficulties?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u9	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u10	Mr President! This is indeed an extension of the provisional law by another eight months, and it is necessary for you. Perhaps in this context, I could ask the Minister of Justice whether we have now gone through this legislation, which is in this way, could you say, always been constantly renewed and put forward? For example, at this stage, how much can be seen of the need for a temporary extension of the legislation? There has been legislation of this kind in several administrative sectors, but does the Ministry of Justice perhaps have the best possible overall idea of how much of this kind of legislation we now have, as it were, is running out of time in relation to this epidemic situation? Indeed, I think it is important that we now take account of the position of the debtors who have already been punished by this interest rate period and also those who have difficulties in paying. In particular, it is important to take into account the months of leave and, for example, the extension of payment periods. Surely these are necessary for you and hopefully make things easier for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u11	Representative Turtiainen — Representative Turtiainen absent. Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u12	Mr President! In the event of exceptional circumstances, the financial difficulties arising from exceptional circumstances must also be taken more into account in the enforcement procedure. The current corona virus situation poses considerable difficulties to the financial situation of many debtors. The effects of the epidemic on the financial situation of citizens and businesses will continue and continue for a long time after the epidemic. For this reason, the State should assist as much as possible those in debt as a result of the epidemic, including in the form of lighter enforcement procedures, restrictions and deferrals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u13	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u14	Mr President! The interest rate is not only a health but also an economic crisis. We have gone, as we should, ahead of people's health, and in doing so we have at the same time restricted and intervened in freedom of business. The economy of citizens and businesses has been affected by a number of upheavals when people's consumption patterns have changed radically and when the conditions for action have been addressed with a variety of restrictions. For over a year, we've been guessing a little bit, 'cause the corona's over. There have been flashes of light all the way, but the future is still a blur. As interest has been prolonged, it has led to a situation in which both citizens and businesses have used their financial buffers. In addition to health, care must also be taken for the economic survival of people. It cannot be that once the corona has been won, our economy is in such a bad state that we are unable to embark on a new upturn. President! As part of the economic survival of the people, last spring Parliament passed a law that temporarily amended the Code of Enforcement. Given the current situation, it is still necessary to extend the provisional rules. The Government's proposal therefore extends the provisional rules until the end of this year. The aim is to guarantee enforcement officers the possibility of granting flexibility that would take account of the exceptional economic situation caused by the interest rate. President! The flexibility of the enforcement procedure thus facilitates the situation of the debtor and also improves the possibility of payment of debts. The post-interest period is also a new possibility for many people in the enforcement procedure. Recovery from the exceptional situation caused by the interest rate is in the interest of both the creditor and the debtor.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u15	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u16	Mr President! This proposal would extend the changes to the enforcement cycle and enforcement legislation until the end of this year. In the midst of a corona pandemic and the economic and social plight people are experiencing, the proposal is very good and worthwhile. The proposal would extend the temporary changes to the enforcement cycle, which would restrict the enforcement procedure and postpone enforcement, in order to better take account of the exceptional circumstances arising from the corona epidemic and the difficulties arising therefrom and avoid excessive situations. It is extremely important that the situation of people in difficult economic situations does not become unsustainable as a result of the corona epidemic and, for example, we do not increase homelessness or poverty among groups of people in distress who, for example, have lost their jobs, their businesses or other livelihoods without their own fault and the economic upheavals brought about by the epidemic. People should not be victimized by circumstances that they themselves have not been able to influence in any way. Mr President! The increase in enforcement rates is a kind of economic thermometer, which tends to rise slightly with a delay as the economic cycle declines. Many companies and households have an economic buffer, so the impact is not immediately reflected in the enforcement figures, but with a delay, yes, and there is also a risk of an increase in the pace. Many economic wisdom has stressed that strengthening domestic demand and securing the functioning of our domestic markets are the prerequisites for starting growth when the epidemic begins to ease and the dismantling of restrictive measures. In this case, support for people's purchasing power is needed, certainly not to be made miserable, and in that sense this proposal is also a wise economic act. Mr President! As mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, and the Minister also pointed out in his speech, the relaxation allowed by the provisional law has been used in the enforcement procedure and the public has been informed of the possibilities to seek relief. In particular, applications for free months and relief have grown compared to the previous year. In 2020, the number of free-month decisions was 18.5 per cent higher than in 2019. The statistics do not distinguish between the proportion of the increase in the number of free-month decisions due to the covid-19 epidemic, as the number of free-month decisions has been on the increase for several years. However, this is a strong indication of last year's need for the enforcement procedure to be moderated, which the government, fortunately, also hastily seized and gave its proposal last spring to temporarily moderate enforcement legislation, and that is what we are now continuing to do. At the same time, however, it shows a wider need for people, which has been raised by the corona epidemic. And once the epidemic has been overcome in the future, we must return to this and be able to create a stronger opportunity for people to work, to earn a living, to entrepreneurship and thus to build their own lives. Mr President! The enforcement authorities shall have the possibility to amend or limit further periods and facilitations provided under the temporary law. So they have great power and responsibility to make this judgment. I have received feedback that these rules of the game vary greatly from one country to another, and I hope that the legislator's will will will will now be passed on to the enforcement authorities. And when the minister is here, I ask: how will this be ensured?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u17	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u18	Thank you, Mr President. When it is time to thank the minister and the ministry, I will do so now: this is a very necessary and good proposal. And I would also like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and our experts and advice in this context. We have made more changes to the enforcement curve and the recovery of debts to bankruptcy law and law, and we have acted on a very fast schedule. This proposal, too, is already under pre-trial procedure in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I am sure that we will get it here in Parliament on time. A few thoughts to the contrary: As mentioned in the previous speech and others, this is indeed the third proposal. In April last year, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights made further minor remarks on the basis of expert consultations so that the longer-term situation can be taken into account as far as possible, precisely for the reasons of this corona pandemic. As has been pointed out, these come with a delay, as stated in the government proposal, and it is good that it is still possible to continue with this proposal. From that government’s proposal, I considered that almost 20% more free-month decisions were taken in 2020 than in 2019 — probably indicating that this has been applied and taken into account. In its opinions and reports, the Committee on Legal Affairs has also considered these joint impact assessments and joint impact assessments. For example, in March we issued an opinion to the Audit Committee on impact assessments — hopefully the Minister has had time to look into it. There we pointed out, for example, that when several legislative projects have come in connection with enforcement, bankruptcy and recovery of claims, it is good to follow their synergy in the future and take good examples of the consequences and what good, what bad it may be. This is the kind of observation that we have brought to light in relation to this package of laws. And there is much more to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and it is worth reading. We brought some ideas to the Ministry and the preparation of the law. When you look at the feedback from the government's proposal, you are very united here: the rapporteurs have either supported or at least have not objected to the extension of the temporary provisions of the enforcement cycle. There were minor questions, of course, which the committee will then take into account and clarify. As a personal idea — I know that the Ministry of Justice is considering insolvency law, and it is always talking here about how to improve it and what else — perhaps this idea was for the Ministry to consider whether, in changes to this type of enforcement and enforcement legislation, there would be some kind of toolbox in the middle of the debt arrangement. I don't know, I haven't explained this any more, but it just occurred to me that if this has been well-used and good feedback, would this be one of those ways of not always having to go into that heavy debt arrangement, i.e., could these articles in some way partly or otherwise continue to be used — just this kind of thinking. We will deal with this briefly in committee. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u19	Thank you. — and Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u20	Mr. Speaker! This presentation continues the various reliefs in the enforcement of the covid-19 pandemic. We all know that this corona, covid crisis is more than just a health crisis. It is also a cultural, social crisis and it is an economic crisis. That is what it is for many entrepreneurs, that is what it is for many workers who become unemployed. This inevitably also leads to debt problems getting worse and deeper. And thank the Minister for Justice and the Government for continuing this relief and for taking this proposal forward. Mr. Speaker! I agree with Mrs Honkonen's comment and the question that it would be nice to hear when this obsolescence would bring about the change that Parliament has called for several times across party boundaries and across government-opposition limits. After all, it seems to be a disgrace and some kind of stocks that once a person has fulfilled his debts, for a long time that default marking there will then hang and make it difficult to live normal and move forward in life. If I remember correctly, then at least twice in this house the name of more than a hundred MPs has been collected for a bill across all political boundaries, that this aging of default marking would take place more quickly, and that is a little bit of a test for our representatives to believe in doing this, that this change will not be achieved. This would be quite an easy, pointy change, making it easier for many people to move forward in life. Mr President! In the spring of 2019, the Red Mul Government held its government negotiations and wrote its Government Programme, and there are ambitious records that our indebtedness legislation, insolvency legislation, would go in a more humane direction, would be an opportunity for a fresh start and would be possible for such a kind of personal bankruptcy procedure, as we know from that world. This is where Mr Meri, chairman of the Legal Committee, said very well that we have the need to develop this entire legislation on debt, let us say this. And I would now like to ask the Minister of Justice what is going on in these projects, which was referred to here by the chairman of the Legal Committee. In the longer term, what kind of changes can we expect to see in the bankruptcy law, in the law on the arrangement of private debt, in the corporate restructuring law, so that we can get to the point where a person does not fall below his debt burden indefinitely?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u21	Like this. — And now Minister Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u22	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for these very good comments and thank you for the strong support for this proposal. It is also extremely important to note here that the Ministry of Justice has also done a great deal of work on this issue. The positive news is now on this shortening of the retention periods for default marking: we already have a proposal in our statements to shorten the retention periods for default marking to 30 days. So it is now on the table with statements. The Government's proposal will come after the consultation has ended and the civil service work has progressed in the Ministry of Justice, and the Government will then make a final proposal here to Parliament. In other words, I am very pleased that the Ministry of Justice and the ministry's officials have acted quickly and listened to Parliament in this regard too. There is also good news about this positive credit register, where preparations are also underway. We are about to have a situation where that too can go for a consultation. The intention is for the law to be brought to Parliament for the rest of this year, and it would also be for the positive credit register to be introduced in 2024. The fact that legislation comes during this reign is extremely important. Its implementation depends on the fact that the technical work of the register is so demanding that it is a matter that is being built on the tax side of the Ministry of Finance, and it takes that much time, and it must be done carefully, so that practical implementation will then go to the next government term. But the preparation is very, very good at the moment, and it is progressing. There were also a great many questions about the arrangement of debt, among other things. Here, too, we have a situation in which the debt restructuring law will be reformed during this term of government, and we will be able to return to that. It is also in the working group, if I remember correctly. Over the years, the Ministry of Justice has done a great deal to combat over-indebtedness better than it has done so far. Among other things, we have had an important project together with the Bank of Finland, which also aims to strengthen citizens' economic competence. This project is also progressing, and I am also presenting an additional budget for this project in the next negotiations on the spending limits. Mr President! In this regard, Mr Essayah also asked how many such interim legislative projects or interim proposals are pending. I cannot tell you what the whole situation is for the government as a whole, but I know that in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice we are talking about some 6 to 7 temporary legislative matters, of which this issue of the enforcement bar, which is now here today, is one. But, of course, there will be, and there will be, as long as this pandemic is now straining us. But we must learn lessons from this, and it is of course the case that the civil service and we politicians must learn from this, what has been learned during this difficult period of interest, and what could be done with this legislation that could perhaps be extended, and how to ensure that the things that have worked well are allowed to continue and that things that are then no longer needed are put to an end. But here's what we're gonna get back to. I am quite convinced, Mr Meri, that the officials of the Ministry of Justice will also read the reports and opinions of the Legal Affairs Committee very carefully, and I am sure that careful consideration will be given to the questions you have raised about what has also been said by the Audit Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u23	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. — Mr Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u24	Mr President! This was a bit sudden when there was no introduction at the beginning of the speeches. I drew attention to this government proposal. Of course, this is of a very technical nature, and it is intended to make legislation more flexible under these conditions of interest rate, in so far as certain meetings could be kept at a distance or may be carried out in a written procedure or postponed in this case. This is also about these real estate delivery meetings, and I myself have actually been waiting for one of these meetings, and it is now perhaps going to be organised in another way. And then these joint forest tax associations and other shareholders can also hold their meetings in a non-physical manner. Of course, this is important because Finland is a heavily dispersed country in land ownership and forest ownership in this way, that many Finns own land. And since these affect the lives of many Finns, it is important that these different deliveries, whether they be a ransom delivery or something else, can still be dealt with under exceptional circumstances, despite the fact that we do not have the courage to meet physically. In that sense, this proposal is very much to be welcomed and should be brought into force quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u25	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u26	Mr President! Indeed, this is a bit of a similar kind of legislation. In other words, it is a matter of temporary legislation, of continuing it, because it is extremely important that these real estate deliveries and meetings of shareholders and meetings of reindeer husbandry law can also be organised on the basis of remote participation or limited written procedures throughout 2021. These types have been made on the association side and have also been taken into account by public limited companies and many other different foundations and other forms identified by the legislation, but then, indeed, for these shareholders and the meetings provided for in the Law on the Common Forest and the Law on Joint Areas, a separate legislative package is needed. Now that these have been made in different fields, there came such an interesting one, could you say, a form of association that kind of falls between these laws. However, since there is no minister here to answer, I will tell my colleagues that some time ago in this Chamber we discussed how the church councils of the Evangelical Lutheran Church can meet, because there are large numbers of people there and then again this legislation had to be adopted at the Council for autonomy, so that it can be brought here and do similar procedures, so now religious communities, which are also autonomous in Finland on the basis of legislation, are not at present able to help legally. This is because the Ministry of Justice cannot legislate on their behalf and, on the other hand, they do not have a position similar to that of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, for example, through the Council of Ministers, to bring legislation, so that a certain number of religious communities have been left in a very special situation. Well, there has been an attempt with common sense to think that if things were moved, annual meetings would be moved forward or, possibly, through various proxy procedures or other means, things could be carried away. But this shows that the Finnish legislation has not really been able to reflect on every corner that, if you need to make separate legislation, you might not find the person who could do it with all the freedom of religion and other clausulats of the Constitution. — But this is just like this as an anecdote, so to speak. It's nice to know there's something like this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u27	Thank you. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u28	Mr President! As we know, restrictions on assembly, quarantine and the need to avoid human physical contact have made it difficult to organise meetings. There are many places where legislation is not familiar with the possibility of remote meetings or separate written procedures. It is also illegal to postpone meetings or, in practice, it is not possible to do so because of the urgency of the cases to be dealt with. We must also be able to deal with matters under exceptional circumstances. In addition to human health, care must also be taken of the health of society. We must be ready for society to open up again and the situation to normalise. We must therefore be ready to take our share of the coming boom. In spring 20, due to the epidemic, the Act on the organisation of building deliveries, meetings of shareholders and meetings referred to in the reindeer husbandry Act was adopted on the basis of a written procedure or a forward-looking procedure. Given the current situation, the government's proposal aims to extend the provisional laws until the end of 21 C.E. I think this makes sense. President! We need to be able to move things forward without endangering health. Circumstances cannot stop society as a whole and end development. Eventually, the corona is only part of our everyday life. There is much more going on in society, much more that is only in time than in time. Over the last 12 months, we have all come to know the benefits of remote meetings. So if you want to bring up something good about the interest rate, at least new and flexible meeting practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u29	Yes. — Representative Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u30	Mr President, ärade talman! I samband med coronapandemin har vi variety med om många oliika specialarrangemang, och ett arrangemang som hevisades till är ju förstås att övergå till massor med ka distansmöten. Senast ramomdage hade vi ett öte kring en förening, ett årsmöte, och det fungerade valdigt bra. Det ox tangerade den temporära ändringen kring fastighetsförrättningar. För oliika delägarlags öten och ¤mmor gäller momma sak i fortsättningen, att man också fram till årets slut ska kunna genomföra det rai på distans. Det ox tycker jag är en valdigt bra och tidsenlig sak som vi absolut kastöda. Kanske är det till och med så att det har variantt ett större deltagande tag vare de austansmöjligheterna för motsvarande öten effectsom vi vet att markägandet är viktigt för finländarna, men samtidigt vet vi att folk bor på oliika stanllen i Finland och det kan henda att man inte kan vara fysiskt på plats. Därför är det är också en bra öjlighet som man brode se på i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u31	Mr. Speaker! This is an extension of the law that has already been adopted, which will allow remote access to, for example, the management of common forests or common areas, the operation of such rural communities and natural resources by remote links. The reason is that we have to avoid social contacts and the gathering of large troops during this corona pandemic. As many honourable Members have said here, it is important that these various bodies operating in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry should be able to hold meetings at a distance and the administration will run and all the obligations of the legislation can be fulfilled in these areas too, and it is good that these various deliveries can also be carried out, such as real estate deliveries, even during this pandemic. And yes, Mr President, what has happened here is that the digital leap of society has come under duress. As the development often progresses, now that we have to avoid large gatherings, we have all learned to use these zooms and themes and skypes and who knows what, and it has spread to all age groups, both children’s school and older people are very handy in using these remote connections today. I think it may be that, for example, such deliveries may continue — at least when they are simple and uncontroversial — to go through digital channels. Mr. Speaker! I share the concern that has come from religious communities here, that we should also find such laws and legislative proposals in the decision-making of the congregations, legal changes that can also be used at a distance there. It is important that during the corona we are able to live as normal a life as possible, even though, of course, remote communication never completely replaces eye-to-eye live encounters. But this pandemic will certainly leave a lot of good things in the hands of this practical civil society and industry and working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u32	Like this. — And Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-24-ps-29.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I went on to ask myself, after all, that at the meetings of the Community government these remote connections can be used, but it is precisely these annual meetings that have proved problematic. Now, of course, if we look forward to the future, the possibility would be that our thousands and thousands of different communities would go about making those changes to the rules, or that we would have a change in association law. I have understood that in the Ministry of Justice, when there has been a debate here some time ago on this subject, such a legislative amendment has been envisaged, so that then this change in association law would be introduced, and that we would avoid having hundreds and hundreds of associations in the Board of Patents and Registration making these changes to the rules just because we have remote access to the annual meetings. Unfortunately, then, the Minister is not here, even though it is a referral debate, but we only have to hope, when there are representatives of the government parties here, that you will take the message forward, that I think this would be sensible and certainly save a lot of money in society and that bureaucracy would also be reduced if this could be done through changes in association law. It is precisely in certain Community forms that it is a problem not even to be able to meet at the moment with a quorum which could make the decision to change the rules so that annual meetings can then be held at a distance in the future. That is why this exemption legislation is needed, but then it also has these specific holes, which means that it does not cover all Community forms. This is the kind of work that I hope will then be promoted at the Ministry of Justice at some point. - Thank you.
