ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to a large committee, to which other committees may deliver an opinion by 31 May 2021 at the latest. Following the presentation by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. After the group talks, an hour and a half will follow, divided into two 45-minute sections so that the groups can exchange debators midway through the debators. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Up to 3 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Prime Minister Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u2	Mr President! The Government has provided Parliament with an EU report setting out the Government's views on key issues relating to the European Union. The government's EU policy is based on common values. The objective is a socially, environmentally and economically sustainable European Union. The EU must be a strong global player and a security community. At the same time, the Union's own activities and Finland's influence at Union level must be actively developed. Mr President! Democracy, the rule of law and fundamental and human rights are the basis for the Union's action. Promoting common values strengthens the unity, acceptability and credibility of the EU and trust between Member States. The report sets out strategic guidelines for achieving a socially, environmentally and economically sustainable European Union. They concern the achievement of a climate-neutral EU by 2050, the sustainable use of natural resources, a fair transition, an encouraging regional and structural policy, a more integrated internal market, an open and responsible trade policy and the best education in the world. The report also outlines a strong social dimension, a fairer working life, an effective health policy, a more effective economic and monetary union and the EU's own resources. The transition to a climate-neutral economy opens up new export and business opportunities in Finland and the EU as a whole. Digitalisation must be fully exploited to achieve climate objectives. The circular economy and emissions trading can also contribute to European climate objectives. EU climate policy must be socially and regionally fair in order to be acceptable to citizens. This means support for the regions, sectors and workers most affected by the change. It is important to support a fair transition from a common EU budget in all Member States. In addition to climate policy, safeguarding biodiversity is one of our key tasks. The use of natural resources must be sustainable throughout the EU. Mr President! It is up to the EU to narrow the gap between the Member States and their regions. The emphasis of regional and structural policy on reforms in support of competitiveness, social inclusion and the green and digital transition are important. This policy must encourage structural reforms in the Member States and at the same time ensure that the sectors affected by structural change are supported. A key specific issue for Finland is the support of northern sparsely populated areas. A functioning internal market is a prerequisite for sustainable growth and competitiveness in the EU. A strong and integrated internal market is also the best way to strengthen the strategic independence of the Union. The EU should seek to strengthen the multilateral trading system. Trade policy must be a coherent part of the EU's external relations and closely linked to the development of the internal market and industrial policy. The EU's trade and investment policy must support the achievement of the SDGs. Mr President! Human capital is the EU's most important resource. Strengthening the skills of Europeans, increasing educational equality and digitalisation must be given priority as key objectives for EU cooperation. Strengthening the social dimension of the EU and the European Pillar of Social Rights and the minimum regulation of social rights and working life are ways of achieving a socially sustainable and equal EU. A well-functioning and healthy labour market is important for promoting sustainable growth and the welfare economy. Finland supports the objective of the EU's minimum wage initiative to ensure adequate pay for all workers in the EU. At the same time, the national specificities of employment policy, such as the labour market system based on collective agreements, must be respected. The EU must also strengthen its ability to respond and prepare for cross-border health threats. The Union must step up its efforts to prevent, control and combat international health crises and to coordinate emergency situations. A functioning Economic and Monetary Union is of central importance to Finland. The responsibility for economic policy must continue to lie with the Member States in accordance with the Treaties. The possibilities for simplifying the fiscal framework need to be explored. The European Semester should be developed to take better account of the economic, social, employment and environmental aspects. We want to promote strong investor responsibility and the completion of the Capital Markets Union. Finland is open and constructive about the development of EU own resources. Future proposals on, for example, the customs mechanism for CO2 emissions and the digital tax will be carefully assessed and brought to the attention of Parliament. Mr President! The EU is a global player and a security community. The Union must promote its values and interests and develop a comprehensive approach to migration and the development of the Schengen area. At the same time, the EU must strengthen the overall security of its citizens. Only effective international cooperation can address cross-border challenges. The EU's global role and influence must be strengthened. The EU must play an active role in developing a rule-based multilateral system. The report stresses the importance of a comprehensive approach to enhancing the security of the EU, Member States and citizens. In the coming years, particular attention will need to be paid to the fight against hybrid threats and the strengthening of the EU's cyber capability and security of supply. Migration also requires common European solutions. Mr President! The report provides an overview of the EU's activities and Finland's influence on the EU. Our goal is to have a more inclusive and transparent Union, effective institutions and decision-making, effective preparation for the EU and strong representation of Finns at different levels. The Union's activities are based on representative and participatory democracy. Transparency of EU decision-making and active and clear communication will strengthen democracy and the involvement of citizens, businesses and stakeholders. At the same time, they increase trust and accountability and promote good governance. Transparency in decision-making also combats disinformation. Equality between Member States, the institutional balance and the central role of the Community method are important principles for the development of the EU. The strengths of Finland's EU policy are the coordination system and good cooperation with Parliament. Adequate and timely information in Parliament is a key element in shaping our EU policy. From the point of view of the policy and the acceptability of the EU as a whole, it is essential that the institutions work as well as possible in a balanced manner for the citizens of all the Member States. Mr President! We have joined the European Union because we have experienced the importance of working together and being part of a larger group as a small country. For a small, export-driven country, the benefits of cooperation through free movement, an open internal market and security are many times greater than our membership fees. With the Union, Finns are more free and prosperous, our companies are more international and our continent is more stable. It is true that the European Union is no longer the same as it was in 1995 when Finland joined. That's the way it's supposed to be. The EU must also live in time and develop. We Finns have a duty to express our views on the direction and development needs of the Union. Finland is an active member of the EU, which affects the future of the Union. Our objective is a strong, united and capable Europe with the ability to solve global problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u3	We shall now proceed to the group debate. — — — — Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u4	Mr President! The experiences of World War II made the European Union’s designers peace builders. The two world wars and the centuries - long hostility between Germany and France were a cruel starting point. The main idea was that future generations would no longer have to suffer the horrors of war. There is also a lesson to be learnt from the times when the European Coal and Steel Community is founded in today's debate on Europe. The war was a lesson to the Luxembourg politician Joseph Bech about how powerless a small state between two superpowers could be. That feeling of powerlessness led Bech to wholeheartedly support the economic and political integration of Europe. Mr President! The market for Finnish companies' goods, services and capital will also be opened up to 450 million consumers through participation in the EU internal market without walls and customs duties. After all, it offers a slightly different growth potential for our companies and employees than the 5.5 million domestic market. The common internal market allows for trade without restrictions on import and export and customs duties. The internal market means common European standards that facilitate business exports and businesses. The EU is the most important export region in Finland with an overall export share of almost 60%. Economist Juha Tervala referred in his article last week to the estimate that the benefits of the internal market for the Finnish economy amount to 7.7 per cent per year and EUR 18.5 billion in euros. This is significantly higher than Finland’s net contribution, which was EUR 0.6 billion in 2019. In addition to these, we must not forget the importance of the Union in other policy areas, such as high environmental standards, minimum protection for workers, health and safety at work or food safety, and for us Finns, the Union has also been a safety community since the beginning. Mr President! Democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights — these are fundamental values common to the Union. In order for the Union to be credible in speaking for them, it must respect them itself. [of the fundamental Finns group. That's right!] Finland has been a strong advocate of the rule of law, and during the EU Presidency, against all the sceptics, a small country showed how it can leave a big mark on the drawings of our common European house. For the first time, the rule of law has been linked to the use of EU funds. [Base Finns Group: How do you feel?]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u5	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u6	Madam President! The Government's report on EU policy coincides with a very critical moment. Government parties have approved the EU budget for the years 21 to 27 and a recovery package with a price of around EUR 4 billion for Finns. The key message of the report is that the EU is a peace project and a community of values, which must strengthen the resilience of the crisis through all possible EU action. According to the Government, the resilience of the crisis will be strengthened by emphasising the EU's common values and common climate objectives. In fact, according to the report, these two entities are the solution to almost all problems. The resilience of the crisis will not be improved if it is built on a deceptive basis. The EU is an entity whose values do not include compliance with common rules, treaties and laws, let alone informed and honest decision-making. It consists of Member States which are not treated equally and fairly. Climate objectives do not strengthen the resilience of the crisis by undermining competitiveness and mobilizing citizens and businesses. Mr President! The EU goes from crisis to crisis, but it still does not learn the lessons. The EU's economic policy has no knowledge of the resilience of the crisis. In terms of crisis sustainability, it would be essential for each Member State to put its own economy and structure in order. There is a point in the report which states that it is essential in economic and monetary union that the responsibility for economic policy rests with the Member States in accordance with the Treaties. This entry is in complete conflict with the government's recent activities and reality. The Government has adopted a recovery package in which it has blessed the joint responsibilities and the violation of the EU Treaties. Even taxation is also in crisis, especially in high-tax countries, as in Finland. The Government notes in the report that the unanimity requirement and the special legislative procedure must be maintained in EU tax policy when it concerns the core of national tax policy and the harmonisation of Union tax legislation. Nevertheless, the government expresses an open and constructive attitude towards the development of the EU's own resources system. In English, the government actively wants to increase the tax burden on Finns and open up direct tax law to the EU. The tax crisis is approaching. Mr President! Good government, it should be acknowledged that strengthening the resilience of the crisis is yet another excuse for the collapse of Finland's sovereignty and for increasing the power of the EU. Untenable justification for tax union, solidarity and federalism. A comprehensive impact assessment of the consequences of the Recovery Fund and the development of EU integration has still not been sought. A broad social debate on what we want from the EU, what we get, what the price of the EU is for Finland and what we are prepared to pay for is still lacking. [Current Group: You should have listened to me just now!] The one-off and one-offness of the recovery package is an understatement of Finns. The package will create a policy that will be repressed when the next crisis strikes. Responsibility for the Member States' own economic discipline and policies will go up in smoke. EU crisis management is lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u9	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u10	Mr President! The Coalition Party successfully promoted Finland’s accession to the European Union. We believed then and we now believe that Finland should be making decisions about matters that affect Europe and, therefore, ourselves. The EU means freedom for Finns to move, live, study and work in Europe. It also means certainty about being part of the Western world, security and the economic benefits of the internal market. In the EU, Finland must not only follow the will of other countries, but must have our own clear will and vision. The importance of the EU for Finland must not remain unclear to anyone. We need to be able to respond more effectively to future crises than we can now, whether it is a new virus, the management of migratory flows, the fight against terrorism, the environmental crisis or something we do not even know yet. The EU is launching a conference on the future in which, over the next two years, it will identify what changes are needed. Finland must actively participate in this work and support the access of Finnish experts to important tasks, both at this conference and elsewhere in the EU. Mr President! In the EU, each Member State must bear its own debts. The most heavily indebted countries will not rise with a common additional debt, but will only become more indebted. However, there is no mention of economic reforms or moral hazard in this childish report. It does not even set the objective that other Member States will no longer come to help when the other Member States are in financial difficulties. The Assembly's parliamentary group has already repeatedly criticised the recovery package and called for the introduction of a debt mechanism, not because we are turning our backs on the EU, but because we are concerned about the direction we are taking in such an important and close Europe. In response, Prime Minister Marin has said, as many times in this Chamber, that the debt mechanism is part of the EU report. However, the report now merely states that ‘the conditions for the implementation of debt arrangements should be improved’. Improve — is this your idea of decisive action? The debt arrangement should initially have been a condition for Finland's participation in the recovery package, as required by the Coalition Party. Furthermore, it has been heard from the Prime Minister's lines that the recovery package may also be used in the future. That is what the assembly is strongly opposed to. The EU has the opportunity to do a lot of good in areas such as climate policy, digitalisation, robotisation and artificial intelligence, but this can only be done if the economy is in order. Mr President! In future, the EU must be a more coherent foreign and security policy actor. Now the EU is threatening to remain in the outer circle of Russia, China and the United States. Therefore, EU decision-making must be more effective. And that is why the Assembly is proposing that a Security Council be set up within the European Union, with rapid decisions to be taken. There is also a need to increase qualified majority voting. We want to further deepen cooperation between the EU and NATO and, in the long term, integrate some of the EU's and NATO's defence-related tasks. Mr President! The EU is also an important community of values for us Finns. The purpose of the rule of law mechanism is to ensure that ordinary citizens are protected and that governments do not overtake power in any country. If the media and the judiciary are led by the same, decision-making leaders, the fundamental rights of the individual are in grave danger. For the sake of democracy, it is worth fighting in the future. Mr President! We in the Coalition Party want Finland to be a courageous, proactive and solution-oriented Member State that dares to cooperate with similar countries in order to achieve its own goals. The EU must be strong on issues where Finland can work more effectively together with others than it can do alone. Similarly, the EU should not be given power over matters that are central to the country's own decision-making powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u13	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u14	Mr President! I have lived most of my life in Europe. I do not remember a word of my childhood about membership debates — when I was eight years old, I focused on everything else — but I do remember how later many people were annoyed by the talk about trying to get at the heart of the EU, for example. Finland, and especially the Centre Party of Finland, has always had a certain kind of hate-love relationship with the Union. On the one hand, we have criticised the fact that decisions are being taken too Brussels-centred, adding absurd bureaucracy, but, on the other hand, we have understood the advantage of a small, export-driven and non-military country. We have pursued a policy in the EU that defends national interests and builds a viable Union. That is precisely the point: we believe that EU membership is a national interest. Membership has opened doors for students, employees and our companies. It has strengthened the security of our country. But neither the EU nor the world is any more like it was 26 years ago. We have faced many crises, especially in the economy. The unity of the Union has also been disrupted by discussions on climate change and immigration. Dissension is evident between Member States and within Member States. That is why it sometimes seems that the EU is just putting out fires. But it can be much more than that: The Union must do better to make Europe more economically successful, more strategically independent and more politically coherent. The Union must be more crisis-proof and resolve crises more effectively. The Union must be better able to protect its citizens and commit the rest of the world to solving common challenges. The EU cannot and should not try to solve the challenge of climate change on its own, for example, but must engage in cooperation with other major economic powers such as China, Brazil and India. Mr President! The objective of the Centre is to have a Union that is safe, competitive, sustainable, territorially integrated and socially responsible: a European Union that strengthens the security of our continent and the overall security of our citizens; a Union that strengthens the economy and employment and reforms industry; An EU that supports profitable agriculture and enables the future of sustainable forestry in Finland. For Finland, the importance of forests is central and must be understood in the Brussels blocks. Forest policy must continue to be a matter of national decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u17	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u18	Mr President! If there was no EU, it should be invented. Cross-border cooperation is needed to solve major problems such as climate change, natural loss and inequality. In the past, when Finland joined the EU, many feared that the Germans would buy all the beaches and that our country would be forced to join NATO. These fears did not come true. On the other hand, our influence on the future of Finland and the world has increased. The region of some 450 million people is also better able to protect the environment than each Member State individually. We Greens want Finland to support the Union to remain strong and forward looking. But the future also brings surprises. Koronapandemia is an example of a crisis in which our chances of protecting both health and the economy are better in the EU than alone. The concern raised by recent actions in Russia, such as the murders of opposition leaders and attempted murder, would also be many times greater if we could not act as part of the EU. The Union is also of benefit to the world as a whole. The EU has long been the engine of climate protection. What has already been done is far from enough, but without the initiative of the EU there would not be, for example, a Paris climate agreement. We Greens want the EU to be the most competitive and socially integrated carbon-neutral economy in the world. In this, Finnish expertise has much to offer to the world and to sell. Under the leadership of Finland, the EU committed itself to carbon neutrality in 2050. The decision has been followed by followers: since the beginning of the Biden presidency, the United States has also taken on the commitment of China to carbon neutrality within 10 years. Change is also taking place in financial circles. Banks and investors are pulling their funds out of fossils. This month, Bank of America, one of the world's largest oil and coal investors, undertook to make its credit portfolio carbon neutral by 2050. We Greens want the Union to be the world leader in introducing new technologies for reducing emissions and regulating technologies in order to safeguard the environment, human rights and human dignity. The report highlights the principle of do no harm, i.e. avoid harm. Climate neutrality means comprehensive economic reform. There's a lot of work to be done. We Greens support the strengthening and expansion of emissions trading and also the extension of taxation and regulation to air and shipping fuels. Interest recovery must be a leap towards a climate-proof circular economy. It must be done in a socially sustainable way, for example by creating jobs for those who now earn their living from energy peat. Mr President! A disproportionate part of the world’s wealth has flowed to a few. Oxfam says a couple of thousand billionaires have more wealth than 60 percent of mankind combined. The EU must, through its own efforts and international cooperation, block supranational loopholes in taxation. The Greens are open to the use of qualified majority voting here. Carbon tariff can eliminate the competitive advantage for climate-free passengers. The digital tax can be used to restore to taxation services that, after switching to the network, have slipped beyond the scope of taxation. The tax burden on people on small and medium incomes should not be tightened, but should be brought back to the financing of joint services and, accordingly, the contributions from the EU's national budgets can be reduced. The Union's value base — democracy, human rights, equality and the rule of law — must be maintained. It is an important achievement that the EU budget was linked to the rule of law, which means that a country that violates the rule of law can be excluded from EU aid. Immigration policy must also respect human rights and international agreements. It also makes sense to recognise that Europe is greying. We also need people to work here from elsewhere. The route to Europe to study and work must be made clearer. Mr President! It is vital for Finland that the EU remains operational and is able to solve the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u19	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u20	Mr President! The European Union has a problem: many citizens do not see it as their own, and it is no wonder. The EU's activities are not well known and European identity is not addressed. In the eyes of all citizens, the EU has not been able to deliver on its promises of improving well-being. Mr President! The UK EU separation was a serious warning. Brexit was heavily motivated by disinformation and xenophobia, but it was also a message from people who had lost faith in the future and the opportunities to influence decisions about their own lives. Mr President! How could citizens feel that the EU is theirs if people do not feel well in Europe? How could citizens feel that the EU is theirs if tax havens are allowed to flourish? How could citizens feel that the EU is theirs if human rights and the rule of law are not respected? Mr President! What's broken has to be fixed. In fact, European decision-making structures are needed to solve major cross-border problems, such as climate change, international tax evasion, and to bring the fragmented resources of European countries together, for the common good. Through cooperation, Europe can be more than the sum of its parts. Europe's problems are not solved by populist words, but by real actions. These real actions, supported by the Left Alliance, include a financial transaction tax to curb financial market speculation, a carbon tariff to support European industry and encourage emission reductions, and a digital tax to tax international internet giants. Mr President! The EU is needed to defend democracy, the rule of law and fundamental and human rights, both in Europe and outside Europe. The road to Hungary and Poland cannot be the road to Finland or other Europe. Mr President! Political rights, civil rights and the rule of law are increasingly restricted in Russia. It is important to maintain a dialogue with Russia, but there can be no compromise on the defence of human rights. Finland has laudably defended the rule of law, and it is a good thing for us to continue along that line. Mr President! Sometimes I feel like the wheels of history are spinning backwards. It is sad that in Europe of the 2020s we see attacks on women's rights: In Poland, women are back on the streets defending the right to abortion. It is important that the EU finally ratifys the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women. The need has been highlighted as corona pandemic has increased violence in close relationships. It would also mark, for example, those EU Member States that play populist games with the rights of their citizens. Mr President! Finland aims at a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable EU. It is a goal that the Left Alliance can easily join. The Left Alliance wants to build a Europe of justice and inequality that protects workers from wage dumping and where new jobs are created through training, research and investment. We want to build a Union that protects the welfare state from tax evasion and the monopolies of international digital giants. The social dimension of the European Union and the welfare economy must be strengthened. The Left Alliance wants to build a Union that protects the climate, the environment and animals and preserves biodiversity, both in its industrial and agricultural policies. We want to build a Union where investments in ecological sustainability are made, while at the same time creating new, sustainable jobs. The European Union's efforts to protect climate and biodiversity must be strengthened. Mr President! The EU is not for banks and large companies but for people. The economy is for man, and the economy must operate within the limits of the carrying capacity of the environment. Man must be put at the heart of the EU. Nature must be taken into account in everything. We must build a sustainable people's Europe. This report gives the works a good deal of food.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u21	Mr President! Over the last few weeks, much has been discussed in this Chamber about EU policy. The EU recovery package has been the most talked about. There have been political divisions in this respect. We have sometimes been surprisingly divided about the role of the EU in dealing with the corona crisis. I am very concerned that opposition parties have so much mistrust of the EU. Today, we are not primarily discussing corona, but we have in our hands a document that outlines Finland's long-term EU policy. I hope that there will be more consensus in this debate. The EU report takes a position on the many current issues Europe has to deal with. But the report also has visions and we have the right to have a vision for a better Europe for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u22	Mr President! Using crises to change the EU is not appropriate. The extension and circumvention of the EU Treaties undermine the legitimacy of the Union. The President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö, has also expressed concern about the acceptability of the Union. According to a recent EU survey, six out of ten Finns believe that the Union is developing in the wrong direction. The recovery package will transform the EU into a Union of transfers and debt. For the first time in the EU, it will take on a debt of solidarity lasting for decades, which is not possible in an earlier, well-established interpretation of the EU Treaties. The EU taxes proposed by the Commission to repay debt reduce Parliament's budgetary and decision-making powers. As a result of France, Germany and the ECB, a permanent arrangement has been established for a common debt, and the next crisis may already be behind the door. From the perspective of Finland's EU policy, it is foolish to assume that the arrangement would remain one-off and exceptional. In silence, the government has also promoted other joint and several projects and has given the green light to the early introduction of the Single Crisis Mechanism. There is a risk that, as customers of banks, we will have to pay for the failing banks in southern Europe. The SURE mechanism for reducing unemployment risks should have been abandoned as part of national competence and because of constitutional challenges. The weakness of the report is also that it does not take account of the national debate in other countries. Finland must be able to anticipate and influence in a timely manner in order to achieve its objectives. You also have to be able to say no.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u27	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u28	Mr President, ärade talman! The EU recovery package has been discussed over the last few weeks, and that is a good thing. It tells us that the Community is important to Finland and to Finns and that we want to influence the direction in which the Union is developing. It is clear that there is much to develop in the EU. It is equally clear that the Union is a vital community for Finland, despite its many faults. Finland’s accession to the EU in 95 was both a security policy decision and a decision in support of free trade. The Soviet Union had fallen, and YYA-Finland sealed its official place as a member of the Western community. Until then, the plan economy and Eastern trade had helped Finnish companies too much. Free trade enabled companies to improve their competitiveness and increase their exports to the West. A united European Union is more important than ever, and Finland must be actively developing a common defence. The new US administration will restore its relations with the EU and NATO to normality, but the world is increasingly under double pressure between the US and China. Without the United States, NATO will not be strong enough in Europe. Russia's efforts are mainly aimed at remembering the times of Soviet greatness. Only by acting together will the European Union be able to remain a major player in this development. After Brexit, Finland must be able to influence the opinions of Germany and France. It is best done together with Sweden, Denmark, Holland and Austria. Finland should not wait for the bigger ones to do and follow nicely, but be active. If you're okay with your own business, it's good to give advice to other people. The Union was born in the ruins of World War II when the idea of the United States of Europe was born. The basic idea was to prevent the development and rise of nationalist movements. The European Union took its present form in 1992. In retrospect, it is easy to wonder whether the enlargement of the Union to Eastern Europe took place too quickly. The development of Poland and Hungary is worrying. They offset the Community's largest subsidies and undermine the rule of law on the ground. The southern Europe, led by Italy and Spain, must put its economy in order, and the countries of the former Eastern bloc must respect common rules. Otherwise, the European Union will not remain sufficiently united. Mr President, ärade talman! In the previous recession in the early 1990s, Finland was alone. The government was on the verge of bankruptcy, the interest rates were high. The credit to the Finnish economy was non-existent and the loan taps were closed in the world. It is now felt that this recession caused by the interest rate should not be repeated 30 years ago. It is important to note that the situation is quite different and it is also thanks to the European Union. The euro is stable, debt is coming, and the EU's security buffers are in place. Finland is not alone now. But you don't want to get into debt without being reckless. The mobility of people, goods and services open to Finnish companies and Finns for their well-being, as well as the opportunity to work and study in international positions, is a great and valuable thing. Finland should be more active in getting the new generation of civil servants into the key tasks of the EU. Europe's pro-Europe is a key value for Business Now. This does not mean that EU action should be taken without criticism. At present, however, the Union is the best possible instrument for developing a better and hopefully peaceful, common Europe. Mr President, ärade talman! For the above reasons, the Movement is now in favour of the European Union, but the direction we are going is worrying, and we cannot accept this development.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u30	And before we start the debate, I will now give Mr Tuppurainen the floor for three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u31	Thank you, Madam President, for these valuable speeches. The EU is a community of values and therefore the Government chose as the basis for this EU report common values. Their timing is obvious when we see what happens. Yesterday, the Commission reported to the Council of Ministers that there have been attacks on journalists in 22 Member States. Freedom of action, freedom of the media and independence of journalists are at least at stake, if not even questionable. As far as the rule of law is concerned, infringement proceedings have already been initiated against two Member States. We see discrimination against women across the Union, we see discrimination against gender and sexual minorities, and even in Finland some hesitate to run for municipal elections, their democratic rights because they are afraid of hate speech and goals. It is quite clear that it is the common values of the EU that must be taken into account at this time, and Finland is determined, diplomatically, patiently, but in any case defending a common value base. It is also a factor which strengthens the Union's resilience, which is a sort of red thread in this report. We are not uncritical praisers; Finland is demanding and we are now demanding that the EU be better able to cope with the crisis. And that too is evident when we look at this corona pandemic, for example. We have had to introduce longer internal border controls than the Schengen acquis allows, because the EU does not have suitable, appropriate, common crisis procedures for all Member States in relation to such corona pandemics. Even in previous crises, there has not been the best success, not in the migration crisis, not in the euro crisis. We must jointly ensure that the EU will be more crisis-proof in the future. It's the red thread we're working for. And it will also improve our security, and for Finland, the EU will always be a security community. And now in this time period, it is essential to strengthen multilateral, rule-based international cooperation in security as well. For us, the window of opportunity has opened up the U.S. power shift and the Joe Biden regime. Finland must act to ensure that the world does not divide in two. We want the EU to maintain relations with China as well, but from its own point of view. Our response to China's challenge, with its state's aid to competition, is not such a strategic autonomy based on protectionism, but our response is to develop the EU's strengths even more. Our aim is to make the EU the most competitive, socially integrated, climate-neutral economy in the world — in which these priorities for sustainable development are balanced and it will create sustainable competitiveness for the EU. President! Finland is an open and active member of EU membership and cooperation seeking practical solutions that both support Finland’s national interest and bring European added value.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u32	Now I would ask those Members who wish to speak in this first stage of the debate to press the V button and stand up. — And the debate will be initiated by Mr Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u33	Thank you, Madam President. It is a little strange that the government parties here stress the rule-based nature and the responsibility of each Member State for their own economy, but at the same time they commit Finland to arrangements and mechanisms that take us in the opposite direction. The European Union should be a tool that will enable Member States to promote their common interests more effectively than each country individually. There are such interests, such as responding to migratory pressure. Unfortunately, the European Union is not in a position to solve common problems in the first place, but also to prevent the Member States from resolving them at national level. Then, when this provokes justified indignation on the part of the citizens, federal friends react by demonizing the opposition, calling critical views extremist thinking and fomenting hate hysteria instead of looking deep into the mirror. The main problem facing the EU, Mr President, is that the gap between reality and solemn speeches is growing all the time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u34	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u38	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u39	Mr President! As has already been said in almost all of these speeches — not by the Finns, of course, but by others — it is true that it is necessary for Finland, both economically and in terms of security policy, that we are in the European Union and that we are involved in developing it and also contributing to what it is going to do very strongly. Of course, it does not always get raisins from buns, so there will sometimes be a problem that will not always be resolved. In this regard, Mr Kauma made a good point of saying that the European Union should be a stronger player in international politics. The triangle with the United States, China and Russia should involve the European Union in fourth place. That triangle should be squared, and a new approach is needed. I feel it's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u40	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u41	Madam President! EU membership is Finland’s national interest. It benefits the economy, and it supports our security. But with permission, we must do better, Europe must do better, together we must do better. The past year has been exceptional and, as Mr Tuppurainen described, there have been crises in the past and the EU has not always had the mechanisms to deal with them in the best possible way. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister: what will Finland do to ensure that the security of supply and the resilience of the crisis in the future for the EU and all its Member States? Of course, there is a great deal to be done at national level in all Member States, but how can we improve the security of supply and the resilience of the crisis in terms of economy, health and also security to the EU's common agenda?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u42	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u43	Madam Speaker! Independent peoples, European peoples, are very important to the Finns of Peru, and that is why we are on the side of the independent nations. Recently, the European Union has managed its economy so badly that it is horrifying. It is a miracle that the government here simply worships the EU, and when you talk about a community of values it always gives the impression that you are talking about a community of green left values. You want to make the EU a green left-wing community of values. The latest evidence of the EU’s usefulness was this treatment of corona vaccines, because the British who left the EU received the vaccines faster than other countries. Thank God we're going in the right direction. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u44	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u45	Mr President! Mr Koskinen has just described well here that, of course, there is no need to be uncritical about the EU, but it is not very wise to make all the problems a problem for the EU, and one can say that Mr Tavio's speech here has just shown what was at stake. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Europe is precisely what is needed together. It is clear that the EU's action on these vaccines can be criticised, but does anyone here really believe that Finland, as a small country of 5 million, would have managed to do so alone? The EU is needed precisely in those areas where it can be larger in size. In this crisis-resistance situation, the wider shoulders have a better chance of accepting crises, together. In the context of climate change, it makes sense to move forward in the EU at a common pace. I believe that it is then that the Finnish industry will manage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u46	Time! — Mr Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u47	Mr President! For this decade, a strong Europe is needed, it is quite clear, but it does not come about in any line, and that is what we are concerned about in the assembly. Only a strong economic base will create the European Union's capacity for action that is needed in this decade. And now the question is that, in the context of this crisis, when very many of Europe's normal economic rules are renewed in relation to the internal market, in relation to the rules on debt and budgets, and now in relation to the Member States' own financial responsibility, and the debate is already underway in Europe, in which direction is being taken, and in the spring when Germany and France made proposals and the Finnish Government said that we are open and constructive, although we have a long line to take,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u48	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u49	Madam President! Excellent speeches here, as a general rule, on the strengths, importance, development needs and desirable direction of the EU. Combating climate change and deforestation are global challenges in which the EU plays a key role. The report points out that the EU's actions and objectives in these areas must be science-based and based on researched knowledge. That's an excellent line. As far as the upper level objectives are concerned, this is the case, as a rule, from time to time in the EU. Examples include a smidgent attitude towards genetic modification and nuclear energy and, in general, too weak control of the agricultural sector as a whole towards sustainable production. My question to the government is: how is this science-based policy being pursued in the EU so that it is reflected in EU policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u50	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u51	Mr President! It is good that there has been strong opposition from the opposition in this House to the recovery package, but it is also irrelevant and misleading the people if they do not genuinely want to get rid of the European Union. [Department :Standard! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u52	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u53	Madam President! In Finland, direct speech is often appreciated and generally appreciated, and many Finns have especially wanted to be profiled as truth speakers. But when I listened to your group speech, I listened to Mr Tavio's speech, and you do not say what you are apparently thinking: Finland's resignation from the EU. Now you have to be frank and honest about whether you are anorexic and want a divorce, Finland's resignation from the EU, or
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u54	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u55	Madam President! This Finnish EU debate is often sadly unaltered, as Mr Arhinmäki gave a sample here. The KD has long been concerned that the development of the EU is something for which we do not have a mandate from the citizens. The EU is increasingly becoming a Union of income transfers, a tax union and even a joint debt union. And if you criticise this trend, you will immediately swing either an EU divorce card or an East card. However, it would be honest to recognise that not all integration is good. And I am surprised that this government report shows how we are not hearing the federalist voices that are currently coming from the large EU Member States that want to take the EU more and more in the federal direction, and we are only talking at the level of the jargon about our desire to be independent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u56	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u57	Irade the Talman! Mr Satonen gave a good speech on the importance of the EU on a global scale, on how essential it is for the EU to remain united, to be able to compete equally with China and the USA. This is a good thing to bear in mind when analysing external pressure attempts, attempts to influence to weaken the EU. Of course, sometimes they come from the inside. Efforts will be made to weaken the EU's competitive position. But, of course, it is essential that the importance and legitimacy of the EU are also seen within the EU. It was therefore essential that the rule of law was included in this package, even though the Finns of Peru were opposed to it: that the same rules be played, that corruption be eradicated, that our judicial system be taken care of, that everyone in each country has the same right to independent media, an independent judiciary. It was a great achievement. Now, however, there is perhaps some confusion as to how to get this all the way to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u58	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u59	Mr President! Government parties often raise the issue that the Finns are opposed to agricultural subsidies. This is a perfectly conscious misbehavior, which is especially the way the Centre Party works. The Finns believe that, in the present system, every EU-supported coin must be brought to Finland, because the EU's common agricultural policy binds the hands of our producers. We criticise a common EU policy on recovery and support that is directly harmful to Finland. Our agriculture has been driven in the direction of intensive production for years. With the EU, our producers compete on the same market with low-cost foreign production. At the same time, the EU's environmental objectives, which the Marin Government wants Finland to achieve well above, make the situation in our countryside difficult in many ways. So I'm gonna ask the government: How can you accept a tighter green transition to Finnish agriculture and also to the forestry sector? And how do you ensure that you can live and work in the countryside in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u60	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u61	Madam President! The Finns are opposed to the financial framework. The financial framework has defined the money that will come for Finland's agricultural subsidies, regional policy subsidies, rural development. I think we have done very well in this regard, as well as, for example, in the fight against forest decisions being taken in Finland. And LULUCF went to the finish line so that we don't have to pay unnecessary emissions fees, but rely on science, scientific research on what our forests absorb as carbon sinks. I thought it was a great achievement. I agree with you, we have a lot to criticise in the EU, but I am sad that you are instigating citizens against the EU. I would ask you to consider the consequences if the people actually believe it all,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u62	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u63	Madam President! At the title level, this report stresses that common values are the basis for everything. We should therefore be able to count on each Member State to respect its values: human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Sadly, the rule of law is falling apart and we have not been able to intervene sufficiently. In particular, the infringement procedure under Article 7 is unfortunately slow and results have not actually been achieved. Mr Tuppurainen, you have described to a very large extent the problems we have in the European Union in relation to human rights and the rule of law. In fact, in view of your speech, I am somewhat surprised that in the report the ambition to use the instruments of the rule of law is not at the level it sounded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u64	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u65	Mr President! This is certainly the right place to ask why the EU, why we have joined the European Union and compromised some of our national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u68	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u69	Mr President! I think this Chamber is more or less in line with the fact that we in international arenas are better off in the EU than without Europe. On the other hand, there is much to develop in the EU and we must all accept it. There are a lot of things that we can criticise from the right side of the Chamber as well as from the left. One of the things that is currently very much at stake is the EU's digital single market. At the moment, two thirds of the platform economy comes from the USA and one third comes from Asia, and Finland and Europe are totally at stake here. In future, anyone who controls data will dominate the world, and I believe that this will be one of the key foreign and security policy issues that the EU should resolve in the next few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u70	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u71	Mr President! Congressman Tavio made Britain something good, for example. For your information, my relative there told me that the corona situation was so bad that you can't even travel to the neighborhood. In almost every EU debate, I have been disturbed by the fact that the typical argument of EU critics is that, after opposition to giving the EU powers or adopting a measure, the EU is still criticised for not doing enough. Today, in this Chamber, an example of this is the opposition to what the EU is doing, so that the European economy, including the Finnish economy, can recover from the attack on it by the corona pandemic, but at the same time action is required to improve employment. However, I would like some consistency in the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u72	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u73	Mr President! This report, like the government's EU policy in general, is a forceless painting of the horizon that does not serve our national interests. In this game, we will inevitably lose because other EU countries do serve and control their own national interests. Finland is a small country, and Finland should focus on the essential aspects of its influence in the European Union, now that we are there and not get out of it quickly. We should give priority to our own export industry, to our own forestry industry, to our own agriculture, to our transport, to the things that are different in Finland compared to the rest of Europe, to the things where we lose if the rest of Europe decides by majority. What's the government doing? Does a report containing dozens of text that is completely frivolous and only a few individual sentences which can be agreed on in the light of the points mentioned earlier, and those phrases, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u74	A little mercy. There are dozens of speakers here and I shall try to give them a fair balance from now on. — Now Minister Vanhanen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u75	President! I somehow understand the internal pain if you feel that these EU values are somehow difficult or ideologically tedious for you. However, they are quite the same in the UN Charter, in the Declaration of Human Rights, in the Council of Europe, and in our constitution under the lion crest, the values of our independent Finland are very much the same as those of the EU. I don't understand why they're not good enough. What's so hard about living with them? Second point in the direction of the National Coalition Party. In the course of this winter, you have made a great deal of mention of the possibility of sovereign debt restructuring. It is in this report, there is a broad section of it. You’ve just criticised it slightly — the “possibly controlled arrangement ” — but that’s what needs to be done. In a crisis like this, no other crisis should be allowed to arise. We do not need a military crisis, we do not need a banking crisis, we do not need an economic crisis in the countries. And if, in a situation in which every country has to collect debt from the money market in a record way, at the same time, creditors are told that, yes, give us debt at low interest rates, but behind the door there is a debt restructuring — no, this is not the moment when a controlled debt restructuring system can be devised. Its time is at some other time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u76	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u77	President! I am strongly in favour of this, but there is reason to say that the game is getting tougher on the ground where we operate. The game is getting really hard, the teams are forming, and I'm not sure that the triangle can be squared with these things. Our relationship with the crucial climate for us, the east, Russia, is currently deteriorating as relations between the EU and Russia. This is a risk, this is a risky direction and the cost of development. The risk potential in this respect is growing clearly. Does the EU have a strategy for Russia? Well, there isn't, and there's something strange about this. The credibility of the EU should not be undermined once and for all, but on the contrary. Are we capable of producing security in Europe and in this critical relationship? Will we achieve strategic autonomy for the European Union and are we a system-shaping actor?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u78	Congressman Mäkynen, Matias.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u79	Mr President! The European Union exists because its benefits to its Member States are great. The benefits of the internal market have been estimated at 7.7 per cent of our GDP for Finland, i.e. more than EUR 18 billion per year. However, the internal economic market is only a narrow view of our community, and the EU is needed precisely where the Member States are unable to act effectively. There has also been much talk of this in this Chamber, and Mr Hassi gave an excellent speech on how not to oppose joint action at the same time and to call for stronger intervention in the various transnational problems. Combating climate change, managing migration, tackling tax evasion — all these measures require a stronger European Union. Of course there is something to be healed. The European Union must be strengthened by the definition of minimum social conditions, such as employment conditions for posted workers, the lack of wage dumping between EU countries and fair competition between Member States, so that industry, for example, cannot be supported by over-subsidies from large Member States, but even small countries can compete. Such an EU is in the interests of Finland, that is exactly what this government report is building up, and in that respect Finland supports the development of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u80	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u81	Madam President! This report avoids the unfortunate facts, but we would be happy to raise them. It does not talk about the effects of this recovery package or of federal development. It does not estimate an increase in the burden on Finnish taxpayers. The report itself contains contradictions. It is quite right to say that the responsibility for economic policy lies with the Member States in accordance with the Treaties, but that is in contradiction with this package of debts and gifts that you have approved and which you have so much flagged. Why don't you tell me that you accepted solidarity? Why don't you tell me that you accepted the irresponsible economics of the South? You accepted the breach of the Treaties. There is nothing in this line but emptiness and rhetoric — that Finland humbly accepts everything that is said about Europe year after year and claims that it is a sound to be heard. It's simply embarrassing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u82	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u83	Mr President! I understand the criticism of the EU quite well, and I must say that there is room for it. But at the same time as criticising, we should then tell us what is the way in which Finland would be better able to drive its own interests in the EU. Is it the way to create chaos in the EU? I don't believe it. That is not the way to get partners from the EU and not the way to drive Finland’s interests. The only way is to make decisions that create stability in the EU, and I think this is the basic line that the government is pursuing. However, I too am concerned about this development of the EU and, in particular, that if the Treaties are to be interpreted in such a way as to separate them from their wording, there may well be a path of ruin in the eyes of the public that legitimacy and credibility are being undermined and that the EU is going to crumble through it. It must be vigilant, and Finland must always be in a position to follow the Treaties and to keep to their wording.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u84	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u85	Mr President! The principle set out in the Left Alliance’s group speech ‘Semikonrik’ must be corrected ‘is an easy group. The peat status is broken. We need to fix it. In the Government’s report on EU policy, the section ‘Sustainable use of natural resources’ shows the following:‘the annexes to the Birds and Nature Directive are updated on the According to scientific information, Finland grows 40 million cubic metres of peat per year. However, unlike science, peat is considered a fossil fuel in Finland. The use of peat is about half of the annual growth. The status of peat must be required to be converted into renewables for annual growth. This would reduce emissions trading fees by over 100 million a year. I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry: Has the Central Party been involved in this report at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u86	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u87	Mr President! There is now a need for recovery in Finland and Europe, and the recovery tool is a tool here. The recovery instrument, it's a compromise. There could have been other models for joint resuscitation. Direct central bank financing for EU Member States could have been one way to finance recovery. There should also be a debate on the partial reduction of the bonds issued by the central banks. A new kind of thinking and debate is now needed in Europe. Mr President! The Left Alliance sees the need for changes to the EU's economic policy rules after the crisis. Social aspects and the welfare of the environment need to be more closely involved in economic governance. Member States' economic policy leeway needs to be secured when considerable investment is needed over the next few years, both in knowledge and in accelerating climate solutions. This will also help to create sustainable jobs and prosperity in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u88	Congressman Lepomäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u89	Mr President! There is not so much conflict in Finland or uncertainty in the citizens as to the fact that the European Union is a great internal market and also a functioning security community and also a promoter of human rights, but there is a great deal of concern here about the economy. I therefore wonder why, in your 40-page report, only two pages have been invested in the functioning of monetary union, for example. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it even the aim of the Finnish Government to return to market discipline and the no bail-out principle in Europe? Then I would have asked the Finns about it when I read about their EU programme from a couple of years ago, which says that there are two different ways to separate from monetary union: over the weekend as a surprise or by slowly cancelling the parallel currency. Which one of these is the way you want it to be?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u90	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u91	Mr President! If Mr Lepomäki had read it a little further, perhaps just a few sentences, it would have said that the Finns of Peru are in favour of this other one, that is to say the transition to a parallel currency, so that it is possible to get out of the euro just as it has gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u92	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u93	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here, and I would particularly like to thank Mr Heinäluomaa and Mr Sato for making a strong point about security policy and its importance in the European Union. Safety is absolutely essential to us, and it is absolutely essential for our children. You can't buy it for money. We have seen how quickly the political climate of the great powers can change. Power policy, questioning the rule-based nature and increasing nationalism are particularly important for security, including our own internal security. So how does the government intend to respond to these challenges and problems and thus maintain the ability to cooperate between states?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u94	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u95	Mr President! Instead of increasing solidarity, Member States' own responsibility must be emphasised as far as possible. The rule of law has been one of the EU's key principles of action — it must be restored. Economic and monetary union The EMU will only be able to operate sustainably if the Member States return to the Stability and Growth Pact. It is necessary to restore market discipline. I would now like to ask the ministers whether the government intends to return to rule-making. Is the government going to return to the rule of law in which the established interpretations of the Treaties are followed, or will the interpretations of the Treaties continue to be extended according to the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u96	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u97	Madam President! At this point, it is good to restore the debate to the core issues on which the European Union was originally created. If we look at the situation where Europe is in the world: this is a well-known account of how the emerging Third World economies of China, the United States, are threatening the position of the EU in that sense. The EU was still the largest economy in the world at the beginning of the 21st century for a while, but it is no longer. Europe is greying, Europe is getting old. This community was originally created around the economy, i.e. to bind the peoples of Europe together through economic interdependence and to create economic growth. Only through its economic growth will it be possible to create something to be shared, to promote equality and equality in the region of this continent, and about the success of economic growth, the success of which will also depend in full on the way in which European citizens will see this system as acceptable in the future. In view of that, I think
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u98	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u99	Mr President! The representative Kalmari highlighted here the good achievements of Finnish lobbying in matters of climate, forestry and land use. I am referring to LULUCF and the Renewable Energy Directive. But what amazes me a little is that these will be torn open again next summer, and when the Commission is going to re-evaluate the energy and climate policy framework and turn over the new legislation again, it will certainly employ the Meppes, the Commission and the whole Finnish lobbying machine, and the committees will be allowed to do the same work again. I would ask the Prime Minister or the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry: What do you think of this? Is this necessary, and in two or three years climate awareness has changed so much that everything needs to be torn apart?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u100	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u101	Madam President! The value of the EU for Finland is not based on the figures in euros on how much the EU is paid and how much money is made from the EU, although this picture is often painted by the Finns of Finland in this Chamber. Finnish companies benefit from access to the world's most advanced open internal market, which covers more than 450 million consumers. For a small export-driven country, the EU's open internal market and economic stability are worth several times the net contribution. According to the European Commission's estimate, the benefits of the EU internal market for Finland's gross domestic product amounted to around EUR 18.5 billion in 2019. This is considerably more than Finland’s net contribution to the EU, which was around half a billion euros in the same year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u104	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u106	Let us take one more debatable speech from the permanence and then the short ministerial speeches. — Next, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u107	Honorable Speaker! It has just been mentioned that there is far too little talk of economic growth in the Chamber. That is true, but unfortunately the economic growth that has been achieved in previous years has been achieved through debt, public or private debt, and the recovery package is now going to pay the bill. We were also accused of fomenting some form of anti-EUism. No, we do not foment such things, we just want to decide for ourselves how we use trees from our forests or how we use them, what kind of political reforms we make or what kind of car we drive, whether it is electricity, biogas, diesel or petrol. Well, now the fact is that Finland's net membership fee will rise by 100 million per year. In addition to this, the government has taken us into this stimulus package. We are constantly a step in the direction of federal development. The real surprise in this report was the fact that the government is rather positive, agreeing to any action that narrows it down.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u108	And now, ministers Leppä, Tuppurainen and Prime Minister, each for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u109	Madam President! Three important aspects of EU policy, all of which are included in the report. Agriculture must be able to operate throughout the Union, including in those areas where there are particular difficulties. This is part of the basic legislation that the EU has. Here. Finland holds tight, has held and will hold. This is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that financial solutions have been found for the next seven years with an increase of 6%, and this is a good result. It provides the stability that farmers need. It also increases security of supply, resilience, and this also has a strong economic impact. Secondly, forests: Forests will continue to be part of national decision-making. That is clearly stated in the report. That's what we're gonna hold onto. This is evidenced by last week's LULUCF decision, which shows that we, all of us, have been working very closely together and lobbying that this has also happened. And as far as these LULUCF and other calculations are concerned, they must be based on science and, in this case, on science. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u110	Minister Tuppurainen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u111	President! Among other things, Mr Tanus drew attention to the Treaties. Finland assumes that the current Treaties should not be opened up, but that the EU's action should be developed within the framework of the current Treaties by being specific about this itself. Among other things, in connection with the resolution of the recovery, we asked the Council's judicial services for an opinion. We are following the Treaties very closely. Representative Lepomäki and a few others paid attention to the economy. Finland assumes that each country is primarily responsible for its own economy and that each Member State should collect a buffer for bad times at a good time. Representatives Malm and Kanerva drew attention to safety. Finland sees it as a priority that the EU should develop capabilities, including in terms of cyber and hyperactivity. EU defence cooperation is also being promoted, and we are also acquiring global impact on it by developing EU strengths and also by building partnerships, not against anyone, but by strengthening multilateralism. President! There was also a question of the rule of law mechanism. Finland considers it important that the use of funds be linked to the rule of law and that the decision-making process takes place by qualified majority, which makes this mechanism effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u112	Prime Minister, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u113	Mr President! Mr Kalli asked about the security of supply and the resilience of the EU, and it is true that we like this crisis, this pandemic, which has hit every Member State of the European Union very hard, to take all the lessons that we can learn from it for future crises, so that we are better prepared so that we do not get into the difficulties we have seen in many places during this crisis. This pandemic syllabus is very important and this work will be done, and Finland wants to be actively involved in this. Material preparation is one of the elements in which we together in the EU have something to improve. The second entity is the medical production capacity. Now we are discussing how well vaccines can be produced in the European Union, whether this is fast enough. And we see production problems. This capacity-building for the future and this strategic autonomy approach are one of the key issues in terms of security of supply and crisis resilience. And thirdly, I raise the same thing I have said in this Chamber before, namely to the borders of the emergency procedure and to travel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u114	Like this. — And now we are launching a new debat, the second stage of the debat, that is, 45 minutes of a new debatt. And I would ask you, who want to speak, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u115	Mr President! When you listen to this discussion, it seems that the only party that does not answer the question is the Finns of Peru. We have heard strong insinuations here today, but not direct answers as to whether the Finnish People's Party supports Finland's resignation from the European Union. I would like to ask, when we have one EU difference here as proof and as an example, whether we should not learn from it and listen to what has happened in Great Britain. It is there that the difference in Britain has made trade with the EU more difficult and thus weakened the economy of the British islands. And last week we have heard from Yle: it reports that two thirds of British entrepreneurs are reporting that trade has become more difficult and the separation has brought new customs bureaucracy. I wonder if it could not be that, although the EU is not a complete entity, it is still the best thing we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u116	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u117	Mr President! The EU report covers the future of the Union. One key element for Finland is how our industries will cope in the future under pressure of different interests. Finland lives in the forest, and forests grow well when taken care of. A great carbon sink does not come about by itself, but requires the management of forests. The report states that it is important for forestry policy to be in national hands, as the Minister also said. This is a good line, which is also supported by the Coalition Party. In recent years, however, there have been trends aimed at tackling national decision-making under the guise of climate policy. The EU's policy on emissions reductions is now being reformed. This will lead to a comprehensive review of EU energy and climate policy in a timely manner. There is a risk that Finland will continue to increase carbon sinks and other countries will continue to use fossil fuels in the same way. The role of a fool is always available at the negotiating tables. It's worth remembering. My question is, how do we protect ourselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u118	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u119	Madam President! In short, I find this future of the European Union which is being discussed in this report rather strange. The European Union is clearly a rule-based one. That has been demanded by the President of the Republic and by a great many others, but now we are on the way to accepting in these very papers and in the recovery package that we are going to pay the debts of others, to set up a Union of transfers and to give the EU the right to tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u122	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u123	Mr President! At the outset, I have to say that in the group speeches a comment on the British who voted in favour of Brexit, as it were, interveners or disinformation, was already in the ear. However, I would remind you that this was the majority of the English, yet the ordinary English were behind it, and I personally see that it is precisely there that the British are perhaps closer to the Anglo-Saxon world and that there is already a certain historical scepticism towards continental Europe which is perhaps understood here. But I would like to ask the Minister: when you refer to solidarity, and it is now in the context of this recovery fund, do you not see in this re-interpretation of the rules, radical re-interpretation — that is to say, Article 310 has been understood differently until last summer — but the risk of the legal basis being broken down, poor economics in the EU and also that it will lead to conflict if we now deviate from the previous interpretation of fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u124	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u125	I was surprised to have the floor — thank you, Mr President! I very much welcome the fact that the Government report focuses so strongly on these common values as a basis. We have been discussing money here for many weeks now, and sometimes we talk about money as if it were a separate matter, an economic matter, and then the foundations of society, the rule of law, human rights are a separate matter. We know that this is not the case and I am therefore very pleased that they have been raised so strongly here. The development of this whole EU Rule of Law instrument is, of course, a tough job and not very easy one. It's a lot easier to count the money. In that sense, of course, we should be very active and persistent in maintaining this. Of course, I share Mr Estonian's concern that we should be able to stand up, because there must be a great deal of opposition here, as we have also had opposition here when it comes to the rule of law. At the same time, I thought it was very important that we maintain these institutions, which also monitor our own rules, such as the FRA and the EIGE.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u126	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u127	Mr President! Good government, if you feel that the EU and its development are all good and profitable for Finland, why do you not want to carry out a comprehensive impact assessment of the consequences of the recovery package and the development of EU integration? We want that done. Government parties stress that all Member States must play by the same rules and comply with them. This is not the case and the Treaties are being violated. The big ones are taking, and Finland is squeezing. The values of the EU are at a loss here. You accept it, we don't. Even Finland’s good goals collide with a wall called the EU’s superpowers if they do not coincide with the interests of the big Member States. Forest policy is a dangerous example. All of us believe that it must be kept within the sphere of national decision-making. We've already lost the peat. Our forests can also be a waste of EU climate policy if it is to the benefit of the EU's great powers. How is the Green Red Government going to stop this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u128	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u129	Madam President! I am a strong supporter of European Union membership and I therefore also appreciate the critical speeches that have been heard here today. But the development of the European Union in recent history has been strongly based on crisis management. First, there has been a crisis, a degree of chaos, and then an imperfect solution. Especially when it comes to safety, I am concerned that this approach is not enough. It is essential to increase the proactive approach. That is why I would like to emphasise the idea of the EU Security Council, which has been raised by the Assembly, and I very much hope that it will be taken up and developed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u130	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u131	Madam President! Admittedly, it has been a little unusual to watch this tour of the Finnish people around it, that when it is written in your programs that you support the EU divorce, why do you not say it out loud in this Chamber? [Base Finns Group : Where? — Euroeroa!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u133	Mr President! Mr. Kulmun and Mr. Heinäluoma, listen to this answer. True Finns are often asked about our position on the matter. Minister Tuppurainen, I asked you two times last week: if Finland does not accept the package, will the EU separate Finland or will we return to the negotiating table? And Mr Biaudet, you said earlier that only countries here think too much of themselves. For example, Germany is now reviving the Tesla battery industry with more than 2 billion. Do they then think about Finland? No, they didn't. There's still too much blue-eyedness to be avenged.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u134	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u135	Mr President! Freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights — these are the many-speaking values of the EU that have been criticised today by the opposition. I personally think that they are very much worth defending. And I think that the EU should act in a spirit of integrity for these values, both in the world and within its own borders. Inequality, structural racism and unregulated digital giants create growth platforms for incitement to fear and hatred, organised reactionary forces, dissemination of disinformation, institutional destabilising and extremist populism, and the EU is not protected from these international phenomena either. We must fight for a free and democratic society by relying on the strengths we have, by combating inequalities and prejudices, by strengthening civilisation and equality, by strict adherence to human rights, free media, an independent judiciary and truth. I'd love to hear the government's thoughts about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u136	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u137	Mr President! Looking at the history of Finland, we all know that Finland has not been a welfare state for very long. We have done hard work, that is, past generations have done hard work in making Finland such a prosperous country. That is perhaps the fundamental reason why we here in Finland are so opposed to taking responsibility for the debts of countries that do not do so themselves. I think that is precisely the background to this and, Mr President, I am very disappointed with this EU report in that it does not take into account this passionate desire of the Finns. At the meeting, we have always highlighted the importance of the debt mechanism. It doesn't help anything if a country that's in debt is taking on more debt all the time. Well, it does have to be arranged at least once in a while. Mr President! This, too, might not be the biggest problem of all, but what worries me most is what,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u138	Congressman Kivisaari, next up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u139	Mr President! In the decision-making process of the EU, the Centre emphasises the unity, capacity and decision-making of the Union, as well as its trade policy, which opens up new markets for Finnish companies. So we're on the side of entrepreneurship. The programme for sustainable growth is also aimed specifically at Finland’s national interests, because Finland’s and Europe’s rapid recovery is also in Finland’s interest. The recovery programmes of individual Member States alone would not lead to such a good result. President! At the moment, however, the EU is underachieved and is also partly removed from the grass-roots level, and we must also dare to ask why this is so. We therefore need a meaningful and analytical EU debate on the development of the EU and the role of Finland, for example in this crisis resilience and its development.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u140	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u141	Mr President! First,Mr Kauma: Here, on page 23 of the EU report, the second paragraph begins: ‘Finland supports the realisation of strong investorresponsibility’.‘The problem of over-indebtednesss and banks needs to be addressed without significant negative consequences for the EU’s financial and capital markets’and’the measures do not increase therisk of a newfinancial crisis in the euro area or reduce the ECB’s ability to I believe that what is now crying out for its absence is the answer to the question raised by the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, as to whether, in the midst of this crisis, you would have put the countries in the arrangement of bonds. And are you behind this entry, in which Finland seeks to promote investor responsibility, yet it can be carried out without further crises? Mr Koponen, your alternative was to renegotiate that the Member States should take on debt and the Commission would coordinate:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u144	Congressman Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u145	Mr President! Before I became a Member of Parliament, I did not have a problem with how deep EU integration is in Finnish law and, in fact, Finland is no longer part of an EU that is an independent nation state union, and this can be seen in these stretches of treaties, not only in this recovery package, but also in the rest of the legislation. We even go so far that Finland is unable to ensure that legislation that is in accordance with our constitution comes from it, and I am not in favour of such integration myself and the Finns are not in favour. That's what this is all about. Then, to this security community, when it is raised here that the EU is a security community: the borders of the EU are not holding up, the infectious disease is spreading here, Turkey is harassing Greece from the country, from the sea and from the air, the EU is doing nothing about this either, vaccinations were fucked up. Tell me, for God's sake, where this security community has succeeded. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u146	And Mr. Lepomäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u147	Mr President! Representative Purra here confirmed that the Finns of Finland are pushing for a monetary union differential in Finland, i.e. the euro, and would like to implement it through a parallel currency. Well, of course, now anyone in Finland has the opportunity to use bitcoin or other currencies, but would you still tell us whether your goal is really to drive Finland's resignation from the Eurosystem during the next parliamentary term? And then a second response to Mrs Lindtman: it is precisely not just the responsibility of the investor, but also the responsibility of the debtor, and it certainly does not drive the debt arrangements in such a way that, as it were, old debts are forgiven here without trying to achieve a situation of genuine market discipline and no bail-out, in which each Member State is responsible for its own debts, because it is the only way to prevent over-indebtedness in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u149	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u150	Mr President! It is good that the Finns have now made it clear that they are not in favour of the EU separation. It was then interesting to listen to Mrs Rantanen's speech, in which she specifically said that there should be no involvement in such an EU. Just find out what's going on. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u153	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u154	Mr President! I personally do not see on that agenda such a point as the National Party Programme or the decision to separate Finland from the EU, but I see in it a debate on the Government's report on EU policy, and that is probably what we should be talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u161	Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u162	Mr. Speaker! Congressman Rantanen was suing me just now. I'll take it. I have been in this house a long time before accession to the EU and I know that it was absolutely impossible for the Finnish Foreign Minister to say in an official discussion in Moscow that we condemn the actions we have seen in recent weeks. Now Finland has the opportunity to do so in a way that we did not have before accession to the EU. I think that there is a very speaking, clear concrete example of what this means. And when he suspects, in part rightly, that the EU does not have the capacity to act in external relations, the EU must therefore develop capacity, capacity and ambition in foreign, security and defence policy, which is precisely what makes it possible for the EU to play a better role in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u163	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u164	Mr President! What is the difference between French President Macron and Congressman Hoskose? Well, one is, of course, the president and the other MP, but... [ Hulls — The President knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u167	Well, Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u168	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Östman has a good analysis. When President Emmanuel Macro, then in July, rejoiced with his hands open in Brussels that we have now created a common borrowing mechanism, he said what we do not mean to say here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u174	Like this. — and Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u175	Mr President! The EU takes this debt by its own name and does not take it to the Member States
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u178	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u179	Mr President! Here, as the debate went smoothly, Mr Arhinmäki said that Norway is doing well — even though it is not an EU country — that they have oil. The Norwegian people may be grateful to their Creator for not having such a government. At present, oil rigs would be put into scrap iron in Norway because of fossil fuel. Here's the deal. Mr President! I am a little confused here by the fact that nothing is said about agriculture. In this report it was mentioned in a few lines, but we all know that our agriculture, our industry and our forestry industries suffer in part from the fact that Europe has an ambitious climate target, as well as Finland. I ask the government a great deal about the 'do no harm' principle: when will you start using this principle for the best interests of our agriculture, industry and energy supply? At the moment, your method is ‘doharm’, at least for security of energy supply. We've seen it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u180	And now, Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u181	Mr President! However, I am concerned about the debate that is taking place here about whether we are already going down the road of going out of the European Union when it is already openly mentioned that the euro should be left. It is not yet recognised that the European Union is being supported, but when I look at this development in Britain — I have followed it for a long time myself, and I have been there, sometimes there — it did not happen in the moment, but when that process started and all kinds of information, including false information, was disseminated about the European Union, then at some point the day came when the people made the decision that it left, and now it is the day of the billing. Who would have thought that the Amsterdam Stock Exchange was bigger than the London Stock Exchange? And who would have thought that by now gross domestic product has fallen so much because of this difference that more has been lost than all the contributions that Britain paid in 47 years?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u182	And now, Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u183	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk about forests here today. It is understandable and natural because forests are of great importance to our country's economy and to people and to the well-being of nature. They also play an important role in climate policy, so the link with the EU is also clear. They are in the role of the solver, and Finland alone will not solve this problem. Keeping forest policy in Finland’s own hands has been Finland’s long-term policy, and this is certainly the case in the future, but of course, because carbon sinks are part of climate policy, forests are also part of the EU’s climate policy. Today, among other things, we heard the concern of the Finnish Climate Panel that determined efforts must be made to strengthen Finland's carbon sinks, as they are now threatened by increased fellings. The use of forests and their management are in Finland's own hands, but that also does not mean that there is no point in working together in the EU on forests and nature...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u184	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u185	Mr President! While this debate has been followed, the main opposition party in particular comes to mind — yesterday I read it, it was a Greek philosopher who said this, this was his quote: “You know how to arm and destroy a country, but to manage, rescue,save and withstand demand for mildness, mercy and self-control.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u186	Let us take Mr Meri and then Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a little amused by the speech I just made about creating threats. When we have brought proper criticism and very detailed withdrawals about what goes wrong in the EU, what decisions are wrong, then there is an ‘anarchists’ from the side. Do you think this is proper respect for the opposition? I am no longer surprised that the criminalisation of hate speech is required, because apparently in the future this type of debate would be hate speech, which could then be closed to me too, but I will speak until I have been prevented from speaking. There is one problem: you are talking about the rule of law. We are currently dealing with the availability of electronic evidence. There is still a risk that the independence of the Finnish Court of Justice will be addressed in the EU. Are you, Mr Tuppurainen, even aware of this and do you promise Parliament that the independence of the Finnish Court of Justice will not be interfered with?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u188	And now, Minister Tuppurainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u189	Thank you, Mr President. When I try to listen to this criticism of the Finns, which is valuable in itself, it is, in a way, shadow boxing, because this is not what you are seeking from your heritage. Are you divorcing Finland from membership of the EU? Are you divorcing Finland from being a member of the euro? Both are supported by the majority of the Finnish people, but what is the view of the largest opposition party in Finland? You would be doing a great service to the civil debate if you were to make this line of yours clear here. But one thing is clear, and that is that you have made a break from what unites this Chamber more widely, and that is the link between this rule of law and the use of EU funds. [MariBantasy Call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u190	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u191	Mr President! Many people here have said that criticism of the EU is allowed, but I have not yet been able to find out in which context it can then be presented, if you feel that there is nothing to criticise in this package of recovery gifts. If we consider that this will not be a one-off event if we have new packages that will cost Finland over four billion dollars, is that a good thing too? [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u192	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u193	Mr President! Representative Peltokangas here strongly criticises and calls for climate action to take the industry away from Finland. Now I have to ask Mr. Peltokanka if you've ever had your overalls on and your helmet on so,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u196	Ladies and gentlemen! There are so many requests to speak and so little time that every time a representative's name is mentioned, I will not give an answer. — Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u197	Mr President! I think we should recognise that the nature of the European Union will change now that this recovery package and its money, that is, the fund outside the European Parliament, will increase the power of the Commission, which will change the power of the European institutions. And when we combine this, of course, with the powerful stimulus package of the ECB, which seeks to bring about inflation, so that we now have, as it were, two tools to help the Member States, how do you, Minister, assess this real moral risk that someone will step on the train and pay for tickets with others? This problem has also been raised at the summits? And in what way have you tried to find a solution to the fact that this does not happen when citizens in Finland think quite this way? And when you look at this structure from an economic point of view, it is obvious that there is a risk that when you get that debt, it will be taken. And when you have the awareness that we have two tools that will then be used to fix and help those who are in trouble
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u198	And time is full. — Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u199	Mr President! The report supports the strong regional and agricultural policy that was asked about here, and it is right that we need a common agricultural policy that takes account of the different circumstances in the Member States. This is very clearly recorded here in the report. The report's message to the Centre is very important that the use of forests should continue to be a matter for national decision-making in the EU. The report also rightly stresses that the recovery instrument associated with the economic crisis caused by the interest rate is a one-off instrument. Mr President! Finland is an independent state, and next Sunday we will also celebrate the day of our national epic Kalevala. Among other things, there is talk of a moss, a wonderful object that grinds money, and I think that at its best, the EU is also a kind of money shampoo. We know that money does not come from scratch, but, as stated in the report, it is a fact that Finland has benefited financially from the EU internal market, and we must continue to develop and promote this internal market strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u200	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u201	Mr President! There's a representative there before. Mr Eestilä wondered about this risk of opening up EU energy and climate-related regulations, but that problem is not due to the fact that science itself has been updated, but rather to the fact that it has not been done in the first place with sufficient scientific orientation in respect of planetary framework conditions and borders. That is precisely what needs to be corrected, and that is what I applied for in my previous speech. As far as this security community is concerned, today international policy looks like such a return to a great game, and in such a situation a strong, united EU is needed, strategic autonomy, close, effective security cooperation is necessary. At the same time, in this rhetoric and in the idea that the triangle must become a square, which is true, we must remember that the most natural and close partners in the EU are democracies, and then it means that a functioning transatlantic relationship, a new relationship with Great Britain and a functioning division of labour with NATO are very important issues, and that,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u203	And now, Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u204	Mr President! It is important that EU action and Finland's EU policy are consistent with policy. This means that the various policy areas work in one direction and in the same direction, for example by taking into account welfare, health and employment issues in economic policy direction, or by taking into account human rights and environmental objectives in trade policy. That is why Europe needs EU-wide corporate responsibility legislation. Mr President! The EU also has a duty to this policy coherence, because the EU is responsible to its citizens and to the international community for the implementation of the UN Agenda on Sustainable Development, where this policy coherence is strongly present. I hope that Finland will keep this on the agenda in all its influence on policy and remember this aspect of coherence. And there's a lot of good stuff in that report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u205	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u206	Mr President! Is it good governance that there was no impact assessment of the recovery debt package? Minister, why do you sign the bill before you even know what its effects are? The recovery fund is said to be one-off. Do you believe that yourself when the source of the money remains the same even though the name may change? This is essential, not semantics used to stamp the opposition. In the report, ten pages are devoted to achieving climate neutrality at EU level. Most of it is a naive dream. However, there is one good thing that I have found: they want to save the Baltic Sea as the EU's top project. This affects Finland in concrete terms — rarely, yes. That is why I ask: what has been done to promote this objective, or is there anything? Finally, I wish the President a happy birthday.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u207	Thank you. — Mr Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u208	Mr President! A few words on the EU and climate policy. In other words, the European Union accounts for 14% of global emissions — correct if it goes wrong. In other words, we need to involve Russia, the United States, China, India, in fact we need quite a polygon in these climate issues when we talk about these structures here. Two or three years ago, there was a LCB BREF package like this, emission criteria for large combustion plants. Finland entered into negotiations in the EU, returned with tar and feathers, and the most stringent emission restrictions were tightened. This story only tells us that EU negotiations are a tough place and that national lobbying must also be carried out there. And on climate issues, as fine as they sound, all Member States are monitoring their own interests in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u209	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u210	Mr President! The EU must move forward in actions that citizens value and regard as fair. These include measures to combat the shadow economy, harmful tax competition and tax fraud. Mr Sarkkinen spoke very well of policy coherence. The EU has a major role to play as a pioneer in climate work and in addressing the loss of biodiversity worldwide. That is why it is important to have strong articles on sustainable development in EU trade agreements. In trade agreements, we can also promote the rights of women and girls and workers. And as the Finns have been picked up here, biodiversity can also be revived here in the north with EU support, and the great thing is that this Baltic Sea rescue project is included here in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u211	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u212	Mr President! Being in the EU is a bit like being in the government: [Laughter] There are allegations here that our agricultural and forestry industries are suffering from membership of the Union. I do not think there is any margin for such claims. Representative Peltokangas left the hall, but he could go and ask Scottish farmers now how they are doing after this Brexit. It's a very tight situation, and it's definitely not going well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u213	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u214	Mr President! The European Union can and should be criticised. Neither do we claim that the European Union is perfect or ready. But I think it is a fundamental question and a question of interest to Finns whether the party is in favour of, in this case, the Finns of Peru, Finland's membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u217	We've mentioned a lot of things. — Mr Mäkelä, vice-chairman of the large committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to return to this EU defence, on which Mr Kanerva has just spoken, so that the Finnish Foreign Minister may perhaps go a little louder to Moscow when we are in the EU. I think it's a little out of line. I would understand that if Estonia were to go behind NATO's back when NATO even has its back, which is behind it. Finnish politicians have a strange idea that EU defence is something that it is not. When you go to Europe to discuss European policies and you want to talk about European defence, the answer is always the same: polite disregard, that is an interesting subject, but when we are already in NATO. The EU's defence is the same nonsense to follow up on confidence capital, values and peace projects when there are no more arguments to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u219	Like this. — And now, ladies and gentlemen, the time allocated to this debate has come to an end. Let's take Minister Tuppurainen's speech, and then...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u224	Like this. - And now, Minister Tuppurainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u225	Thank you, Mr President, and, if I may, on behalf of the Government, I wish the Vice-President a very happy birthday. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Thank you, thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u228	Like this. — And now we are going to the list of speakers, and Mrs Turtiainen is the first to be present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u232	Thank you. — Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone of the parliamentary way in which people and parties who disagree on political matters are also called by proper appointments. — and Mr Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u233	Mr President! In the coming weeks, we will be making one of the most important decisions of the post-war period, and it would therefore be necessary to look a little further into the future world. Now, if ever, we should focus on avoiding solutions that would lead to Finland’s national obsolescence. As we know here, the EU cannot decide for itself what to decide. It shall be mandated by the Member States and bound by mutual agreement. If the EU repeatedly circumvents its own rules, can we count on it even when it is those rules that would protect us and our existence? In practice, the Commission is circumventing the key provisions of its own Treaty. There is no trust in the principles or promises proclaimed by the Union. This should also be a cause for concern for all who regard EU membership as a cornerstone of Finland's position and security. I think they should consider what kind of reassessment such untrustworthyness gives rise to. A violation of the rules is therefore clearly a matter of principle that goes beyond the recovery instrument. We Finns, or at least the majority of Finns, think that the law is respected and the agreements are adhered to. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been voted by the citizens to act in accordance with the laws and regulations. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are going down a path where rules and agreements are being reinterpreted and stretched. What do you think? Can the people trust you in the future? We understand, Mr Government, that here some Members of Parliament want to contribute money to the problem countries of the EU, some of which have already taken the path of zombieism. It could be done in several other ways, for example through agreements between willing countries, but the distribution of unmastered money now being carried out is a disaster. So you want to encourage countries that have done badly, to reward these countries at the expense of our economy. Insurance-type solutions have been functional and prevalent up to now, but you are now moving on to the way of transfers. The last thing we have been warned of is the prestigious Jacques Delors Centre. The government's EU agendas have failed in many ways. We know that, among other things, the recovery instrument does not in any way contribute to Finland's exports or economic growth. It thus increases Finland’s already high, growing central government debt. When we are in the euro, the currency cannot be devalued and floated at national level and fiscal policy is an increasingly important tool in fiscal policy. This seems to be an open road to taxation at EU level, which in time will damage Finland's welfare system. Finland is actively involved in promoting the EU's common corporate tax base. In this way we will reduce our own national taxation, and at the same time some of the national tax law will be transferred to Brussels when different EU taxes replace or supplement national ones. In that situation, we'll be lost. Do we want to go with you to a world that hardly anyone here is prepared to pay for? We are an honest people and we abide by rules and regulations. Take an example, such as the black market. They are the smallest in Europe, that is to say the best in that respect. A friend of mine from Spain recently told me that he was forced to hire employees in a dark way because the company’s profitability is so poor that there is no way to pay tax to the State. This practice is almost normal in the countries of southern Europe. Unfortunately, there is also a similar attitude in these countries as regards ethical, social or climate-related issues. So we're moving in completely different spheres with them. The integration that is now taking place in the deeper and deeper parts of the EU is the road to destruction for us Finns. There is also the question of the one-off nature of the various support instruments and whether it would be easier for our decision-makers to refuse in the next EU crises than it is now. A lack of response can be interpreted in such a way that refusal is not sought or dared to commit. The question of speculation is particularly important when it comes to reviving the debate on the creation of the EU's own fiscal policy. This would be a continuation of the recovery fund, making transfers, joint debt and common taxes permanent. This system would probably be sought in order to save the euro in a situation where it would be as difficult politically as possible to refuse. Important legal obstacles in the EU Statutes would already have been considered invalid under the Recovery Fund. There is therefore a risk that Finland will easily slip away from its current concession policy into a member of the Union of transfers and fiscals without ever having been fully discussed or decided upon. Such a worrying development can be prevented in the coming weeks here in the Finnish Parliament by bringing down the aid package and opening new negotiations. We Finns love Finland and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u234	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u238	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u242	At this stage, the debate and the proceedings will be suspended and the proceedings will continue at this same session once the other points of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u243	We will now proceed to item 2, which was suspended in this plenary session a moment ago. The Court held that Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen's first shift. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Finland will succeed when Europe succeeds. We are an integral part of the common market and international competition. Smuggling in ourselves would be a waste of future opportunities, which would also significantly undermine our future growth, employment and thus the financial base of the welfare state. A strong, united and functional EU is in Finland's best interests. In Finland, much has recently been discussed about how much Finland pays different fees to the EU and what we receive in return. However, the value of the EU for Finland is not just based on the figures in euro on the amount paid to the Union and the amount of money received in the Union. For example, the benefits of belonging to the internal market exceed the membership fees we pay in many ways. About 60% of our exports are destined for the EU's internal market, and it can be said that if the EU clots, Finland will also clot. Europe will succeed if it is united, proactive, cooperative and able to act creatively and openly. Such a Europe is also a crisis-proof one. In terms of resilience, i.e. flexibility of change, the focus of this report has been on the development of the EU's own strengths, the participation in fair competition and in the world economy, the more determined promotion of EU values and interests and the accountability of external action. The major challenges facing the world require international cooperation. Climate change, biodiversity loss, inequality, over-consumption of natural resources and pandemics also affect us because of interdependence. On the other hand, the EU is also a channel of influence for Finland, through which we can be larger than our size. Yle recently published the proposals of the covid-19 expert group appointed by the Finnish Academy of Sciences on how to cope with future crises. Researchers in the expert group stressed that Finland must be a pioneer in expertise and international cooperation, especially in solving the environmental crisis. Global warming is a greater risk to the world in the future than this corona pandemic. This is also in Finland's interest, as the bioeconomy and green technology are areas of the future. Finland has the opportunity to be a leader in sustainable development and to take the lead in global competition, as we have excellence in creating climate-resistant solutions. That is why the EU's objective of climate neutrality by 2050 and Finland's national objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2035 are really important targets. This report sets out a number of good measures to achieve these objectives, including measures to restructure the economy, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, knowledge and science-based approaches, new technologies, legislation to encourage and enable innovation. It is also stressed that the circular economy will help to mitigate climate change, improve resource efficiency and reduce import dependency on critical materials. The report also speaks well of the potential of digitalisation to achieve climate objectives, the importance of biodiversity and forests and sustainable bioeconomy. These are all important issues and measures for Finland’s future. As regards the acceptability of measures, it is important to ensure social and territorial fairness in climate action, i.e. to ensure support for the regions, sectors and workers most affected by the change. The foundations of the welfare economy also need to be further strengthened. Mr President! Fundamental values, such as democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, form the basis for the Union's action. Realising these values makes Europe a community of values, and it is therefore important that Finland defends these principles in all situations. Therefore, linking the rule of law to the use of EU funds must be Finland's objective and principle in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u245	Thank you. — Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u246	Mr President! The report states that economic and monetary union is absolutely essential for the Member States to be responsible for economic policy in accordance with the Treaties. In the view of the government, this would require Member States to have genuine room for manoeuvre in economic policy. However, this is in complete conflict with the recent government activities. Last year, the government adopted a recovery package in which it accepted solidarity, irresponsible economic behaviour in the countries of southern Europe and violations of the EU Treaties. So the actions and words of the government are in complete contradiction. One big question is also how Finland will be able to ensure that the countries of southern Europe that are in debt and which have been poor before their economy are making painful structural solutions to their economies, that we will not be paying for more of their wide lives again in a moment, while the Finns suffer at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u247	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u248	Mr President! The Government's report is concerned about how the EU and its climate, economic and immigration policies are being called into question in the Member States. What is the point of an expansional, centralised project that must not be criticised? The EU fears that even after decades, the EU's people will not be united, but that each nation and Member State will have their own national interests. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. Each country should primarily care for its own country and its own people. Finland’s national interest does not only seem to be in the interests of Finland and Finns under the leadership of this government, but it is more important to increase the capital of trust and to have access to common tables and to take excessive action in matters such as climate issues. We want to set an example for the rest of Europe, but what a sad example it is when we drive our economies into crisis and entrepreneurs to the brink of bankruptcy. We are an example, an example of the fool of thousands of lakes. Mr President! The rise of nationalism in Europe was a cause for concern in this Chamber. Do the government parties have any idea what nationalism even means? Nationalism, or nationalism, emphasises the importance of peoples and nations in relation to culture and politics, for example. Nationalism refers to the preservation of self-determination, to the love of one's own country and to the promotion of the interests of one's own country and its citizens. Nationality does not exclude internationalism, trade or cooperation. Minister Tuppurainen said earlier that the thinking of his own people first is harmful. I have the opposite opinion with the Minister. If the government thought of any of our own people and put them first, we would have much better things to do. In some of the speeches, coronanationalism, which has been practiced in other countries but not in Finland, was brought up in an unfortunate tone. We are perhaps the last country, for example, whose entire population has been vaccinated. Koronan if what should have woken up the government for once to think things over in the interests of Finland rather than the EU. Other countries do not trust the EU's power; they have taken independent decisions. Mr President! According to the report, the EU has developed into an ever closer community in several sectors. As a Finnish, it means that the EU is on more and more sites in Finnish politics and Finland’s national voice is becoming smaller and smaller. A good example of this is the ban on lead shotguns, which, despite Finland's opposition, went through the EU. Nothing is understood in Brussels about our hunting culture, Finnish game management or forests. Nevertheless, there is an increasing desire to put the decision-making process in Brussels' hands. That is the problem in the current European Union. It penetrates the land that does not belong to it and is missing where it belongs. It is easier to shoplift with small things than to genuinely respond to crises. We're at a crossroads now. The EU property should now be clearly cropped and prevented from uncontrollable expansion. The time will soon come when we will not even be asked. Honorable Speaker! It was wondered why Finns don't feel like EU citizens, but I don't blame them at all, when Finns want to be Finnish and keep Finnish affairs in the hands of Finns, not the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u249	Like this. — and Mrs Kausto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u250	Mr President! Visible policy has become more and more isolated — I stress the word ‘visible’. The more people you disagree with, the greater the visibility you get and the greater the chance you give yourself to succeed. We have moved from a period of faith in international cooperation to an ever stronger world of intimidation with the risks of cooperation. Let's just pretend that excluding others is patriotism. When you curl up very small, it creates a sense of security, but is it a feeling of reality? It must be remembered, however, that it would be essential for a country the size of Finland to seek friends rather than enemies. After Isis, the United States has found its main enemy in China now, and the transition to democracy will not change that. The British are out of the European Union without the public fully understanding what that means. But when Europe is bad, it is bad. Mr President! China's soft world domination is already at our doorstep. Although the EU is Africa's largest trading partner, the scars left by colonialism do not heal with money alone. China is replacing the EU as a dominant partner in Africa. ‘Administrative’ is a good term,as long as it And Europe will not miss out on this development. Without a common approach, we can see that we are increasingly attached to Chinese money. Free and fair trade with China and Africa, which respect each other, is best achieved as a united EU. What about the fight against climate change and the fight for the development of artificial intelligence? These two things will have a strong control over the agenda for the near future. It is almost impossible to see European nation states being able to influence either development separately without being left behind by the great powers. Above all, Finland will be the pioneer within the EU in these matters, and with this properly exploited, we will be able to raise the value of our country as a world leader. The EU's potential in the field of immigration is also at its best united and strong as a whole. The solutions at the Union's external borders are waiting for ever more stringent measures. Pandemics will also be a major threat in the future, and the construction of walls will not prevent pandemics, let alone the waves of refugees. These are all examples for a strong EU. How do you combat these problems by closing down and isolation at the same time that money and data that enable well-being are transferred from one side of the world to another in fractions of a second? All these issues — and I have not even touched on one of the most important, perhaps the most important, benefit of a strong EU, namely Finland’s external security. If we leave aside all the theory and the challenges of implementation, I would ask you: would Ukraine, as an EU country, be at war with our neighbour, let alone as a euro country? Mr President! In view of all the points I have raised, I really do not understand why we do not dare to develop the EU with a critical approach. What follows from all of this is that we create a situation in which people find it difficult to see these huge differences that we pro-European parties have in terms of EU policy. And when we disagree, as we do now on the importance of the Member States' economic management, we are talking about the euro difference. This is very difficult for a person who believes in the better future of the EU to swallow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u251	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u252	Mr President! This report on EU policy states that Finland is actively involved in the promotion of the EU Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB). If this common corporate tax base is introduced, we will in practice abandon our own business tax legislation. The CCTB is primarily intended to target companies with an annual turnover of more than EUR 750 million. In practice, however, it is not realistic to think that we have two tax laws on business activities, i.e. business and professional activities. The CCTB would be a huge change that would take our company to a long and difficult time of uncertainty about tax law interpretations. Interpretations would also vary from one EU Member State to another. Mr President! The government deserves warm thanks for the fact that this EU report does not include the introduction of the CCCTB, i.e. a common consolidated tax base. This project is a phase planned after the CCTB to continue the transfer of powers for business taxation from independent Member States to the Union. Even if the abbreviation of this EU project differs innocently from the CCTB by just one letter, the realisation of the project would mean that our corporate tax revenue would no longer be up to Finland to decide, but would be transferred to the control of the EU machinery. The tax model of the project, where patents and other intangible assets would not be taken into account at all in the allocation of tax revenues between Member States, is already unhelpably outdated and unfavourable to Finland. It would be a breeze from the 1980s if we moved on to Finnish business tax legislation. Our corporate taxes would be largely distributed to other EU Member States on the basis of formulas. Mr President! The principle of unanimity in EU tax legislation is important — it is in the interests of a small country. The big countries are capable of developing qualified majority voting behind what is important to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u253	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u254	Mr President! This was the last time that such a comprehensive EU report was issued in 2013. The report now comes at a good time, as the EU's long-term budget for 21-27 was adopted at the end of 2020 and a comprehensive recovery package. According to the Government, the red thread of the report is to strengthen the Union's resilience to crisis and to all possible EU actions. In its report, the government states that it is essential that the EU's growth strategy is based on climate-neutral economic development. According to the Government, Finland supports the guidelines of the Green Development Programme presented by the current Commission. The report strongly emphasises the importance of the social dimension of the European Union, and the government sees it as a factor in increasing the overall acceptance of the Union among its citizens. Mr President! I am concerned that the guidelines for the European Union's key policy area, the common agricultural policy, are limited in the report to a few sentences. The importance of rural development policy for Finland is missing entirely from the report. This, in part, reflects the lack of interest of the government parties in the future of our agriculture. I think we should get a grip on this. In the field of forests, recordings are much more promising. It is recognised that Finland emphasises the importance of our forests for the economy and employment, Finland wants to continue to keep forest policy within the sphere of national decision-making. The report mentions, among other things, that Finland wants to promote wood construction. These are good entries and warm my mind. Very relevant guidelines in the report are also entries from the sinks of the land use sector. It should be noted that ‘Finland wants to ensure that the carbon sinks and stocks of the land use sector However, it should be pointed out here that simple entries do not affect, things must be driven with determination. For example, Finland’s wild bogs should be labelled as certain parts of carbon sinks in climate calculations — if anything had a positive impact. In our swamps there is a carbon sink almost the size of our traffic emissions, which is currently not included in the calculation for our benefit. On this point, I submitted an initiative for action to Parliament a few weeks ago. Mr President! Migration from outside Europe is not seen in the report as a very serious external threat to European security. The report on migration highlights what other than human rights. I believe that this aspect of migration in the report is getting closer because there are increasing security problems all over Europe, precisely because of pranks from third countries. An eye-to-eye point is also included in the report, which states that it is essential in economic and monetary union that the responsibility for economic policy rests with the Member States in accordance with the Treaties. In the view of the government, this requires that the Member States have genuine room for manoeuvre in economic policy. This entry is, therefore, in complete contradiction with the government's recent activities and reality. In July, the government adopted a recovery package in which it has blessed the joint responsibilities, the irresponsible economic behaviour of the countries of the South and the violation of the EU Treaties. So the government says one thing and does another. At this point, the most important question arises: how long will the government be prepared to put in support of a mature bankruptcy system of Finnish taxpayers' money? Mr President! Although a few good things have been found in the report, the EU is largely the eternal move of failure. The whitewashing of the goodness of the Himmel's existence has been going on for a decade now. Today it is a flagrant violation of its own rules. If the rules are not complied with, they lose their meaning. It is now, if ever, time for a critical debate in Finland on the future of the European Union and in particular on what kind of European Union and the euro area would best serve Finland and Finns. Finland should have a clear vision of what we want from the EU and what it costs. That is the essence of everything when we think about the future of the European Union. In the light of current federal developments, I am personally prepared to have a serious debate on the euro and then the EU. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u255	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u259	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u263	Representative Hyrkko — Representative Hyrkko absent. Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u264	Mr President! This Government report on Finland's EU policy is timely and good in itself. What amazes me is precisely what is recorded here in the report for the future Europe. When I read this — in the evening I looked very much at it with thought and underlining — it was a great surprise that the guidelines have actually been created here to indicate that the steps of the future federal state are recorded here as such: there is a common European corporation tax, the CCTB, the common corporate tax base, are being created, then there are new digital taxes, CO2 taxes and so on, that is to say, a new tax base is being created for the EU, i.e. funding for the future federal state. Before that, as we all know, a stimulus package has already been presented to Parliament, which gives free money to certain countries, and we have already set up a transfer union. It is already a fact, and now it is recorded here in the report. I very much wonder about this procedure because if Finland, which has joined the European Union in the order in which the Constitutional Treaty was adopted, has to wake up to the fact that something else is being done now, are we no longer bound by the agreements that we have concluded in due course? By European standards, this means that the European Union will lose the legal basis on which its action rests. The legitimacy that has been talked about has now been put at risk, and that is what I am really worried about. The French President, Mr Macro, at the time last July, was venturing that we have now created a common debt-taking mechanism. I understand his position, of course, because the great risks of the French banks in Italy are the root cause of this. It would also be good for Parliament one day to recognise why these packages are being made: the rescue of French and partly German banks. That is the point, and if the Member of Parliament does not dare to say it out loud from his place, I wonder. Do we always have to be running to help a bank? This is what I deeply marvel at. And then, while it is still being criticised that the signatory does not pretend to accept the European Union as an organisation, that is not the case. I am certainly one of the biggest supporters of the European Union and of cooperation, a supporter of the Western free society, and then do something like this that is not at all one of the foundations of Western society: change the rules in the middle of the game and pay the debts of others, and then even those who dare to ask questions about it are suspected. There's no room for this in my sense of justice. There's no way. If we want Finland to succeed in the European Union, our only security in the European Union is the rule base that we have adopted in due course. The security of a small country is only all those articles in the contract, even the least of them. And now that the report is about to create a tax base for this brave new EU federation, that talk by Mr Macron when we have created a new debt-taking mechanism, that is proven in this Government report on page 17. It reads here what are the new forms of taxation that are being inherited from our communities, that is, from Finnish companies. It is not long since there was a heated debate in this House about the fact that, after a speech by a representative of the government party, the taxation of non-listed companies was being tightened or he suggested that it should be tightened up — I think there were more than one performers behind it — there was quite a lot of noise from it, quite rightly. One of the members of his own group also took a strong stand against it, quite rightly. Has anyone spoken against corporate tax when the Union is planning a new corporate tax and corporate tax in Finland? Has anyone spoken? I have not seen anyone, the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister or the European Minister or any other minister making a fuss that we are about to put a hand on the purse of Finnish companies and communities and, at the same time, on the purse of a Finnish employee. Where's the union movement today when it's quiet? Does a worker or woman who pays his membership fee pay his membership fee in vain when Finnish money is being exported from his nose to meet French investment risks? That is something I will never accept, Mr President. When this Government report came and I first read it, I really fell off the bench that this could usually be true. It is forbidden that there is no transfer of income — that is what is being done here all the time, in this paper. It is forbidden that there is no federal state — it is recorded here, and then it is said that this is one and only case. It is recorded here that it is not, it is a future practice. You should stick to the truth sometime. That would certainly do the authority of the Finnish Parliament quite well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u265	Yes. — And Mr Vartiainen is absent, Mr Kalli is absent, Mr Könttä is absent, Mr Ovaska is absent, Mr Kettunen is also absent, Mr Pitko is absent. — Mr Kausto is present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u266	Mr President! Perhaps we can already see a little fatigue in the debate on the EU. I thought we could still get some tight conversations going here, but there might not be that many people around here anymore. Today's EU debates have been analysed in my mind, and I think there are three very fundamental challenges that can easily arise in this type of debate. First of all, it is easy to exclaim the mistakes or challenges of the past in today's problems: for example, are Spanish sickness and coronapandemic the same thing, or are the economic crises comparable? There is reason to know and respect history, but the future is made for itself and now. On the other hand, the present is easily horrified that it is such a difficult and bad time that it is not possible to do enough right now. And thirdly, the future is easily described as so terrible and faith for better is lacking that nothing is worth doing. In a way, in the Government's EU report, a little of this overall feeling becomes. It is partly very unambitious and somewhat fearful. This is the idea I am afraid of when we are discussing here and the debate is very much over and over again. A critical, moderate perspective is difficult to highlight. Finally, the feeling left over from this debate is that, although we did not have the courage in the past, it cannot mean that today's difficult present cannot work. This would make the future better. I myself would have liked to have been frank and ambitious about what was in this report. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u267	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u268	Mr President! I agree with Mr Hoskose that in this debate on Europe, we should make a strong point that the Treaties should remain. While we are wondering why we are in the EU and what membership we want, we must be active developers and builders of the European Union. The recovery package should be carefully considered. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we took a critical position in the summer that the Union is now borrowing and distributing it as grants to the Member States. That has not been possible so far. There is a risk that a change in interpretation will pave the way for a more coherent fiscal policy. Finland was in favour of a conditional loan rather than a grant in the negotiations, but the solution was a challenging compromise. I don't want to be in a federal state, and it's not worth promoting. We must do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen. There is, of course, not a great deal of political will in Europe to give up a considerable amount of national decision-making power and to give it to the EU level, and it is not in the interests of Finland. I would like to stress that the Union must remain a union of sovereign states in which each Member State bears responsibility for its own finances and debts. By acting on common values, Europe will do better — together we will be stronger. I would also like to highlight the European level of cooperation in education and training and the change in the working life of continuous learning. We need new experts, new skills across borders. It is good that we can move from one country to another, study in different countries, work in different European countries and try throughout Europe. That is one of the reasons why we should work hard on the development of the European Union and work together to build a responsible Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u269	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u270	Mr President! In order not to create the wrong impression of what I would like to do for Europe, I am, of course, in favour of a recovery. I'm sure I'm in favour of resuscitation, but let everyone with their own money resuscitate. If moral hazard spreads to this beloved home Europe of ours, there will be nothing good about it. And another thing that does not promise good is that, according to the current model, the great powers Germany and France are doing almost what they want and then paying the bill in other Member States and then reaping the greatest benefits of its growth. Cooperation cannot be based on the fact that only one or two benefits and others pay. It is the surest way to end the whole thing sooner or later, and I hope that this path will not go any further, because it will lead to consequences that I dare not even say out loud. This report well states on page 24 that ‘European Uniondecision-making and legislative work and open, active and clear communication strengthen democracy’. Let me just ask you this: when we make such packages as this recovery package was, how does it contribute to democratic decision-making within the European Union? And then there is the breach of legitimacy, that is, all the legal basis on which the existence of the European Union is based, by means of these packages, and then they are recorded here in our report. I cannot do that, Mr President. My sense of justice cannot accept it in any way. It's very sad to read. And then, at the bottom of the same page, it is said that citizens must be given the opportunity to participate in the debate on the development of the European Union and, in this work, the conference on the future of the European Union is one way. So, should not these conferences and these assemblies be held in advance between the nations and not settle things past all the rules so that some benefit and others pay? Such a procedure will certainly destroy the fine, fine policy of the entire European Union, which Jean Monnet once wrote, and then Robert Schuman gave that speech over 50 years ago — or 70 years ago, I think. This is a procedure that will destroy the whole great development cycle, and I am very sorry that Finland is involved in this kind of mockery. I would like, Mr President, that when these issues are discussed in that Commission of the European Union, and particularly in the European Council, a small Member State should sometimes also defend itself in such a way that we do not have to face such overwhelming situations. When you look at this report, you know for sure that the next stimulus package is coming. What are we saying here, then, when we have already accepted that principle? These documents contain it hidden, not directly said, but that nothing has been said directly in this European recovery package. This report is in a way a road map for the future follow-up to the recovery package. Personally, I am very offended that such papers are being brought here. The parliament will be sidelined. All the time I would have expected that the Finnish Parliament would have been in July when this agreement on the stimulus package came into being, in which Macro was then happy to air in front of the television cameras when the debt-payer had been found — the Parliament should definitely have been convened then. If Parliament is kept on the sidelines in such matters, I claim that during the post-war history of Finland, when the Finnish Parliament has made tough decisions even in difficult situations, an independent state when the hard victim has remained independent... Then we will be brought by such packages past all democratic decision-making and Parliament will not even be called together, and then afterwards we will have to prove to them that we should have a few billion dollars more money in order to keep the French and German banks standing. If anyone claims that this is a democratic procedure, I dare to disagree. And I have personally been offended by the fact that there are speeches in this Chamber that a person who does not accept this stimulus package and the associated Union for Income Transfers to the European Union or then the right to tax to the European Union is not supposed to be a supporter of the European Union. It's not like that. I am certainly one of the most enthusiastic supporters of the European Union and the biggest admirers of a free society, and if there is yet to be reproach for people who are in favour of an open European Union policy, if they are then criticised for these speeches, then we will be more and more in the swamp, because Paasikivi once said that the beginning of all wisdom is a recognition of the facts, and otherwise the matter will never get old.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u271	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u272	Madam President! The Government's report on EU policy is under discussion. It does not look good for Finland's independence. Everything that this government is doing today seems to be driving us towards a federal state, even though we have not voted for such a thing when we voted on accession to the European Union. This is not an acceptable policy. I am in favour of a free European economic area in which sovereign nation states trade among themselves. I am in favour of a free Europe in which each country decides its own affairs, its own legislation, its own economic policy, its own border control and its own immigration policy. That is what Europe is in favour of. I am not in favour of a political development in Europe and in the EU where big countries, big banks and big companies exercise decision-making power and where a small country, such as Finland, runs as driftwood to pay and guarantee the debts of larger countries. If the EU is turned into a trade union of free nation states and only a very loose political union that guarantees Finland's sovereignty, I will support it. If, on the other hand, the EU is turned into a controlling federal state, where all the bigger things are decided in Brussels, and here in the Finnish Parliament we are just dealing with small things, then that is not the kind of EU that I am in favour of. Mr Tytti Tuppurainen, Minister for EU Affairs, has said that the thinking of his own people first is harmful. This statement is confusing. Yes, representatives of the Finnish people must think about their own country and their own people first. One might ask that if we Members of Parliament do not think about the interests of the Finnish people, then who will think about it? Mr President! The EU line represented by the Finns is the only right and sustainable line. This has also been noticed by citizens: according to the survey, around half of Finns are negative about the EU recovery package. So about half of Finns think about this as we Finns do. Finland should not become a net contributor to the recovery package or, in fact, to anything else in the EU. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u273	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u274	Madam President! I would like to ask you that: Mr Vallin said that the Finnish people's line is the only right EU line. They have made it clear today that they are driving, for example, the euro difference, so is that the only right line? But what Mr Hoskonen raised here, as he raised the issue of the new own resources that the EU is going to collect here, is of course of concern to me as to which door is being opened. I understand that these decisions are not being taken now, but, as I said, if the door is opened, then usually the speed is high. In this case, when we talk about tax law at EU level, we will soon be in a situation in Finland where we have the municipalities, the provinces, the state and the EU as tax levels. It is quite clear that, at that point, taxes will rise and the profitability of working will be reduced. For example, digital tax and financial transaction tax are in no way even good taxes. Of course, the plastic tax is justified as favourable for Finland, but, as I said, when the door is opened, the speed can be high. I think it is important to understand that when these EU taxes are discussed and easily raised, for example, by large digital companies, then some of them will eventually pay, and they usually make sure that the payer is a normal consumer. But the sum summarum: the total tax rate must not increase so that Finland can compete in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u275	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u276	Tack, värderade talman! Under de bull Senaste venckorna har EU-politiken diskutreats valdigt flitigt i oika former i denna sal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u277	Madam President! I agree with the views expressed in this Chamber today that it is very important that we now have this in-depth debate on the EU and Finland's role in it. When I listened to this debate, I came to the idea that, basically, European policy, as in all politics and human relations, is about trust, and cooperation cannot work in the best possible way if, firstly, there is no trust between the Member States but then within the EU Member States. It is also important for citizens to be able to participate in the debate, and it is important that all kinds of voices be heard and that critical views also be and should be expressed, because without criticism the EU cannot develop towards the better. This report rightly states that Finland must also promote a constructive debate on issues that divide the Member States and that it is through this debate that we can best contribute to finding common solutions, but also to the consideration of Finland's national interests. Mr President! I would also like to say that the report is a good line in that Finland is actively involved in Economic and Monetary Union. To develop EMU and that we are not in favour of common taxation. This is reflected in the report and does not alter this position. Nor do we accept the development of the Union towards a debt union. Although there are different views on this, the records of the report are very clear. This line is good and right.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u278	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u279	Madam President! Thank you very much for your excellent contributions. I believe that criticalness is extremely important when it comes to Finland's membership of the EU or this recovery package. There's nothing wrong with being critical. In fact, I think it shows care. At least this is what I've been telling myself when my wife once in a while criticizes me. But there is a certain limit to criticality that I myself have been concerned about today. Today, too, the debate has drifted from constructive criticism and concern to the euro and even to the EU. When we think of history or history books, there is the one moment when an essential dominoe has fallen, even though it may not have seemed so relevant at that time. This is the worry that I am experiencing when we talk here in Parliament and in the Finnish debate on the EU: we want to stretch the whole time a little bit harder than we might be talking about. The Brexit did not leave the Brexit vote, but through a long storytelling and through history, it grew discontent with Europeanism and with the European Union. At the end of the day, I'm sure not many voters knew exactly what they were voting for. Now that it is already seen that this has cost the British economy as much as 47 years of EU contributions, I am concerned that we will not be able to have an EU-friendly but, at the same time, an EU-critical debate to develop will create a better common Europe in which Finland is better off. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u280	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u281	Mr President, värderade talman! This is a very valuable speech from Mrs Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u282	Madam President! Security is what the EU means and represents, above all for Finland and for Europe as a whole. At least I saw it for myself. Here earlier in the debate, I asked Minister Tuppurainen about the benefits of the Security Council. Unfortunately, I had to leave myself when he replied, making sound arguments in favour of not necessarily serving the interests of Finland. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that this idea of the Security Council would be precisely one of these security issues in an increasingly rapidly changing world and would be able to respond to them at the necessary speed. In the Committee on the Future, we have studied and investigated a lot of future security threats, and it has become clear that they are more diverse and different from what we are used to, so a flexible rapid reaction council might indeed be necessary. But, as Mr Tuppurainen said, there are also risks, and that is understandable, but I would still urge that there should be a debate and a little clarification as to whether there should be a common platform for building this European security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u283	Before I give Mr Strand, I say that we can talk here for just three minutes from that place. — Mr Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u284	Tack, värderade talman! Jag tanker inte tala tre minuter. Det ox min korta taltur.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u285	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. Here the Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed. — Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u286	Mr President! The aim of this proposal before us is to ensure the financing and implementation of investments in agriculture and reindeer husbandry during the transitional period between the financial periods of the European Union. In fact, all the statements that have been asked of the MTK and the Association of Paliskunta, for example, have supported this change and considered this sufficient. Thank you to the government for that. However, I would like to raise a problem in this referral debate with regard to state guarantees, particularly in relation to reindeer husbandry. I've received a number of calls from support men and support women who are reindeer workers. Even though the State guarantee is granted, financial institutions are not prepared to lend to entrepreneurs. The problem is often that we are in the process of acquiring reindeer herds. It is considered to be movable property and can then not be considered in a way sufficient as collateral for the loan granted by the bank. This has caused minor problems in the north. I would have liked to raise this point: would it be possible for these loans to be granted, for example, by the Treasury, in order to secure investments in reindeer husbandry?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u287	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u288	Mr President! It's kind of the same tunes as Mr. Kärnä's. In other words, something needs to be done in situations where banks do feel that they are also taking advantage of this situation in relation to loans in other agricultural areas. Undervalue the farm's own collateral. Admittedly, this is a delicious situation for the lenders: knowing that there is a lender, then the interest rate on the loans will easily be dissolved, in a way, then slightly higher. Maybe it's not the normal market rate. In a way, I would have liked to ask whether there has been any follow-up, whether this has been repeated over the years, or whether it is just a citizen's feedback on these situations. And then, when it is known that agriculture is there in sparsely populated areas, the value of the real estate in sparsely populated areas is often so that the value of the real estate itself is quite narrow on the market. I wish the minister had been there. I would have liked to ask how it has been monitored, how it will be monitored in the future so that there will be no bank domination that will make it subordinate to the borrower, and perhaps even the financial costs will be higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u289	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u290	Thank you, Mr President. It is a rare situation of this kind that I am trying to make the speech just now by Mr Kärnä. - Well, play as a game, it's not that rare. Indeed, it is extremely worrying, as the representative has pointed out here, that problems have arisen with regard to financial institutions with regard to these loans. There was also fur farming in Sama: when the support packages came in, then the financial institutions pulled the checkers. In other words, we are in the same line that perhaps the State Treasury should then catch up and provide the necessary subsidies for these entrepreneurs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u291	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Mr Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-24-ps-14.u292	Thank you, Mr President, and very good luck! ‘Bareboat’ means a contract whereby the owner of a ship hires a ship to a charterer without crew. The shipowner will pay the ship owner a bareboat rental and will occupy and equip the ship at his own expense. The charterer is responsible for the commercial and maritime management of the vessel, i.e. acts as the master of the ship. Bareboat cargo brings flexibility to internationally highly competitive shipping operations. Bareboat cargo enables rapid deployment of ships as demand for transport services increases. The replacement of ships during docking will also be facilitated. Bareboat cargo also enables shipowners to make more efficient use of fleet planning in long-haul charter agreements, and, in the case of new vessels, it is possible to make wider use of international funding opportunities. The proposal is also linked to the Government's decision in principle on Finland's maritime policy policy, in which one of the priorities is to secure Finland's globally competitive maritime industry. Mr President! The vessel would use the Finnish flag for the time it has been accepted as Finnish. The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency would decide to accept the vessel as Finnish. Acceptance would be conditional, inter alia, on the ship being led and operated from Finland and the ship owner and the mortgage and pledge holders having given their written consent to the ship’s registration in Finland. The charterer should be a Finnish national or a Finnish legal person or a national or legal person of a State belonging to the European Economic Area having its registered office, central administration or head office in the European Economic Area. Accepting a ship as a Finnish would also require written permission from the registry authority of the State in which the vessel is registered for the registration of the vessel in Finland. By allowing double registration, a ship flying a foreign flag to Finland aims to promote the international competitiveness of Finnish shipowners by increasing their business flexibility and thereby increasing the tonnage under the Finnish flag. At the same time, the aim is to improve the employment of Finnish seafarers. Mr President! The ship would comply with Finnish legislation, except for matters relating to ownership and vessel mortgages, which would be governed by the law of the State holding the register of ownership. Thus, without a crew, mortgages in Finland should not be reinforced on a chartered vessel. The authorisation could be granted for a maximum period of five years, but it would be possible to reapply. It is proposed that the Ship Register Act be amended to lay down the obligations relating to the ship register relating to the double registration of the vessel. Mr President! When a survey was conducted, of the fewer than ten shipowners who responded to the survey, everyone was in favour of allowing double registration in the case of a bareboat in, i.e. a model where a foreign vessel would be registered in the Finnish register for use and would pass under the Finnish flag. A few shipping companies would need an opportunity soon; for others, it is an opportunity for the future. Some of the shipowners who responded are not particularly relevant, or the possibility could not yet be taken into account. There were no objections. Mr President! The Finnish Safety Agency notes that the objectives of the proposal contribute to the development of Finnish security of supply insofar as the proposal aims to promote the international competitiveness of Finnish shipowners and thereby increase the tonnage under the Finnish flag. New business opportunities can create new job opportunities for Finnish seamen. Based on the responses to the stakeholder survey, the employment of shipowners using the model could increase over the next few years by a total of around 100 working years. Some of the man-years would be in mixed occupation. If the fleet were to grow, there would be a steady increase in employment for deck and machinery personnel on board cargo ships. In addition, one of the priorities is to secure Finland’s globally competitive maritime industry. - Thank you.
