ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. We can now either adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Let's go talk to him. — — — — Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u2	Mr President! I am not speaking here because there is anything critical to say about this, but because, when this was the first time that we were here in plenary two or three days ago, we had so many things here that this went very quickly, and the report was not presented at that time and there was no intervention. In this context, I would now like to say that this is a very important and demanding, complex piece of legislation. We have our own legislation in Finland that regulates medical research in general, then this legislation specialises in clinical medicine research, then we have secondary law, we have biobank law. We have many laws that are closely linked and are very important, among other things, in how our health care system develops. Internationally, these clinical trials have become less important in Finland because we have not been very competitive partly because our legislation has been very rigid. It should be rigid in a certain way, because it will then protect the patient and then this will be as ethical and transparent as possible in any way. With this brief speech, I wanted to emphasise that this is a very important, complex and demanding piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u3	Yes, thank you. — Mr Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u4	Thank you, Mr President. All this kind of scientific and medical research is really important, and that is why it is important that we have enough funding for these universities as well. It is important that all kinds of this kind of research is done here in Finland and not just abroad. I feel that it is appropriate that funding should always be provided for our university projects. It's extremely important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u5	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. To the conversation. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u6	Mr President! There is an exceptionally attractive title here. This is a very technical change that is being made here, but the heading is very attractive: ‘the amendment of the employment pension laws and the national pension law’. Why is this a tempting headline? First of all, it's because we're celebrating Old People's Week. In fact, the International Day of the Elderly was 1. The day of October, and this week is the Old Age Week, when, of course, we have had a lot of discussion about the elderly. Unfortunately, when we talked about mental health problems, for example, yesterday during Question Time, there was no reference to mental health problems in the elderly. However, at this point we have a pension law issue, and when we talk about pension laws, I would like to make one clear clarification here: too often, when we talk about national pensions and occupational pensions, we consider that it is an elderly person, even though the term is 'pensioner'. After all, the situation is that in Finland the only statutory old-age pension is an occupational pension, and 98 per cent of people over the age of 65 receive an occupational pension. 80% of full-time pensioners are people of working age, and this is a disability pension. This constantly disturbs the debate, and when we raise the guarantee pension and national pension, we imagine that we are helping older people — that is not the case here. This should be borne in mind. Finally, when we talk about these reforms at this point, we are missing the biggest reform altogether. When we talk about changing occupational pensions, when there are no level increases — as in the case of national pensions, these level increases — there is the only way to do this index check, which is done once a year. Although it is now Old Age Week, we are currently living in Finland, where there is a situation such that elderly people, old-age pensioners, are the only group of income earners in Finland whose income levels are legally calculated — thanks to the folded index, thanks to the huge pension funds that have been successfully increased. It is great that we have got those funds, but they should be able to spend some of their profits on these smallest pensions, on occupational pensions. That is why I wanted to say that this major reform in this context is not in the Chamber debate with us, but that is, of course, what we are waiting for in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u7	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u8	Mr President! As part of the welfare society, we must always remember to talk about how sustainable our pension system is. In recent times, signs have begun to emerge again of the debate that we here in Parliament also have to have, and the parties also have to do so: how do we ensure that future generations are also protected against their own pensions? This has now been the subject of debate both on the employer and on the employee side. Also on the media side, such as Helsingin Sanomat at editorial level, concerns have been raised as to whether politicians are awake enough. This is not an easy subject to deal with for us politicians. We remember well what happened when Matti Vanhanen, when he returned from Ruka's hangar, wanted to extend his career. Now, in retrospect, when you look at history, you can say that he was right. After all, we have now been able to extend the working lives, but we must have other means than extending them from the end. We need to get more people to work from the start, we also need to strengthen people's working there, and then we need to take a different approach to how people who are traditionally regarded as pensioners can also be actively involved in working life if they so wish. All of this is extremely important if we want our pension system to be sustainable. This is a challenge for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u9	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u10	Mr President! I, too, would like to take the floor here, in honour of Mr Vanhusten's week, and to give support to the thinking that was well described by the representatives of Mr Kiljunen and Mrs Guzenina. As regards, for example, the possibilities for pensioners to continue working, it should be borne in mind that the government has now made a good and welcome approach to the fact that next year but the following year the possibility of obtaining tax relief will not come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u13	Like this. — and Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u14	Mr President! I would like to add to the excellent speeches made by Mr Viitanen and Mr Guzenina. You drew attention to the very big things that we also have reason to do in the development of the future pension system. I would also like to thank the government for having, for 25 years, the first government that has genuinely taken the affairs of the elderly seriously at the level of its government programme and also at the practical level. Until now, there have been mostly surgeries, surgeries and surgeries for the past 25 years. The biggest thing was on the table, the employment rate. It is the cornerstone of the Finnish welfare society as a whole. It is worth remembering that 30% of the working-age population is out of the labour market, almost 30%, this is a huge proportion. Now we also have a situation where people over the age of 65 — otherwise there is one passive citizen who weakens the dependency relationship, as we are labeled as elderly people — are actively involved in working life. There are currently nearly 100,000 of us over the age of 65 who are involved in working life, and we must also give this room. In other words, we must also increase the employment rate of people over the age of 65 if there is willingness, motivation and will to contribulate, as many people do, which means that there must be room for this. Then there was the very important point made by Mr Guzenina that when we talk about pension provision, we must always talk about pension provision, not only to current pensioners but also to future pensioners. Of course, we'll have to recognize this. But it is worth noting that this Finnish debate on pension liabilities, as it were, is only a Finnish debate, only a Finnish debate, which has been placed at a level of one billion at the moment. Nowhere else in the world is this question being asked, because these pension funds, which have been brought up for us specifically for the purpose of pension provision, have raised the question that this would be a conflict between generations of whom the money will be spent on those pension funds. This is not the case in the Member States of the European Union, when in most countries there is no statutory funding system at all. Finnish pension funds are the largest in the world in relation to national product, by far the most powerful... [Johannes Koskinen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u15	Like this. — Now I see that there is even a willingness to debat, but we have a large committee meeting on top of it. Let us move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Niikko. — and the Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u16	Mr President! I have to take part in this debate because, in honour of Vanhusten Week, you can see that the list of speakers is full of speeches by the Social Democrats. It is now important for you to keep this issue on the agenda, namely this government proposal, which is being discussed here, but it is a bill that undermines the benefits of pensioners. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u19	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u20	Mr. Chairman! This debate has now taken an interesting turn. I have been dealing with this issue in the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and this proposal was in line with the common position of the social partners. Well, of course, it can be said that it is the trilogue at its best and some people think it is at its worst, but it really did come up with new regulations. For example, in the future the position of young widows will not be as good as the position of young widows may have been in the past, but at the same time many improvements were made in this regard, for example, in favour of orphans and various groups of pensioners. This detail, which was raised here by Mr Niikko, was also there. I myself asked for the floor because I wanted to give you the statistical information that I quickly revised here. We talk a lot about the employment rate of people aged 55 to 64. Mr Kiljunen, who has already exceeded 65, has already spoken about working, but this employment rate for people aged 55 to 64 has skyrocketed in Finland. The last figure was 68.4 per cent and is only five percentage points away from the 73% of the total population in August. When we went back ten years, we were at 50 percent, and even further away, of course, we were even lower. In other words, we had a relatively early retirement in Finland, often on disability pension, and now work is being done on an increasingly high age because our general health and functional capacity has improved. Of course, work has also changed: not so much in heavy forest work or agricultural work, but in different ways. The overall well-being has increased and is also reflected in an increase in life expectancy by about ten years in the last 30 years. I do not take all this to the credit of the Social Democrats, although we have, of course, played a rather central role in Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u22	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u23	Mr President! There are a lot of good things about this pension reform and I also think it is good that the opposition is blackmailing even better drafts and proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u26	Yes, thank you. — The debate is running, and the committee meetings are pressing on. I would now like to insist that we stick strictly to the next speeches under the heading. — — — — Congressman Järvinen will give you an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The European recovery package is a long way from today's issue of pensions, but if the President will allow me, I would be happy to answer the question of how much money this stimulus package will give to pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u34	Like this. — and Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u35	Mr President! In short, Finnish pension provision is in a good way in the world. Funded and collected for the cashier, both from employers and from employees' wages and salaries, to secure pensions. Such minor changes will certainly have to be made simply because Finns live longer and longer, i.e. efficient working time can continue. I think 68 years is a deadline now, and I'm guessing there's no limit to that, because I know a lot of guys I know who are well over 70, and as entrepreneurs, they'll keep up their full power. So we know this problem and we react to it. With regard to what has been done in France, I will simply say to Mr Squeak as a small reference: when Mr Macro shouts something, it is worth remembering what Mr Macro said last summer. He said that we have now created a common European system of borrowing, which specifically supports French objectives. I do not really like the idea of some big European leader showing off on the fact that the guarantors have been brought into their debt. It is also related to the pension system: if they do not have it, they will be happy to see that someone will pay for it. But there's always some money in the wrong places.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u36	I saw, and now Mr Viitanen and Mr Kiljunen, and if there are any further requests to speak, then we will continue at the sitting on Tuesday — and that will be the case. — — — — Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u37	Mr President! In his previous speech, Mr Lindén said that this proposal was based on tripartite discussions and discussions between the social partners. And now, Mr President, in connection with this motion, it is worth noting that this report is unanimous, so I think that the party he is representing has signed up to these matters. This reminds me of this: although in this context we cannot go into any further debate on this recovery package — the President has so limited it — I say in this debate that while ‘who remembers, with a stick in the eye’ at the Question Time,I am pleased to remind you that at the time when the Greek people were taking the money from the basic Finns to Greece,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u40	Let's stick to the point. — Last speech on this subject today, Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u41	Mr President! Mr Niikko raised the point about this bill, which is under discussion here, that it was as if the widow's pension were being seriously undermined, and so on, and Mr Viitanen has already referred to the fact that this was unanimously adopted, [Heckling] the matter negotiated in the trio, and it is specifically related to young widows.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-08-ps-112.u42	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented on the 9th of the order of business. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 12/2021 vp, it is decided on the basis of a single reading of the Convention and the termination of the Convention and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
