ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 15/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 20/5.2021. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u2	I am submitting amendments to paragraphs 2 and 6 of Sections 5b.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u4	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — And for the debate, Mr Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u5	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes the introduction of a tax number procedure for the shipbuilding sector, with the aim of reducing the shadow economy in the shipbuilding sector as well. It emerges from the unanimous report of the Committee on Finance that the Tax Administration's study of the Grey Financial Clearing House indicates that the legislative changes in the construction sector since 2011 have increased the wages and salaries of the construction industry by an estimated EUR 300 million in 2015, [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u6	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — For discussion, representative of the park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u7	Mr President! The proposal proposes to provide for a law on the control of cash entering and leaving the European Union, in order to prevent money laundering, among other things. Various liquid assets have been added to this proposal, which can be converted into cash, cash, quickly if new forms of asset transport are identified, and these definitions can be changed quickly. I believe that this is the proper content of this proposal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, now and in the future, there will be more and more cross-border transactions of this kind in virtual currencies. If not now in seconds, in minutes, or even at the slowest possible hour, funds can be transferred from all over the world. Here I would like to point out that this whole regulatory environment is developing very quickly. It has a wide range of issues to take into account: the fight against various mild phenomena, but also business and various market places, decentralised funding, mobilization and so on. I think that this regulation will probably take a long time, 10, maybe 15 years, even though it has been started, and perhaps it will have to monitor this technology quite quickly. But hopefully all of this will be done carefully, and we should follow, among other things, what is happening in the United States and China and elsewhere. After all, there are quite a variety of these virtual currencies. Although they are called cryptos, often the address of the sender is public information, likewise the address of the recipient and the transaction itself, as well as the balances of those addresses. But then there are also technical solutions where these are practically encrypted, and I think that these hidden systems will probably also be given attention in the future in terms of regulation. I don't know how yet, but I would assume so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u8	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — For discussion, representative of the park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-21-ps-62.u9	Thank you, Mr President. This is about the amendment of the Genetic Engineering Act. It also evokes a wide range of emotions, but if you think only of technological and scientific developments, then I would like to point out that there are very, very many breakthroughs in this area too, in fact very great breakthroughs. With this covid pandemic, much has now been said about these mRNA technologies, i.e. transmitter RNA technologies, but also about the various interrelationship RNA technologies are making a breakthrough in medicine, i.e. such technologies, which are capable of selectively suppressing a certain unwanted gene manifestation. Then there are these different gene Saxon technologies: CRISPR-Cas9 is the most common technology, which was awarded the Nobel Prize 2020, last year. I would think that, over time, perhaps a greater breakthrough will take place than might be understood when this technology is made available. Now there's still big questions. There are quite a number of such diseases caused by individual genetic defects. I think that these are the first, but then I believe that we will also be able to deal with diseases with several genes or also with the epigenetic environment, and then I think that it will also be useful for agriculture. It should also be noted that different DNA sequences, which was also a very central issue in this covid in order to find vaccines, have become very inexpensive in recent years. Technology and its commercialisation have developed very quickly, and I think it is possible that the price of sequencing can actually go to zero or even negative, that is to say, it would even be paid for being able to do so, mainly in relation to data management, which would then be paid for. There will also be different regulatory challenges. These are very much discussed in the scientific community, how this technology will evolve and what are these different applications and what science ethics allow and does not. Various aspects of IPR, i.e. intellectual property rights, are also being dealt with, and it is not yet quite clear what will happen in them, such as patent disputes and others, but the legislator should be well aware of the future. - Thank you.
