ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. In this context, the debate is also allowed on the agenda 4. on the subject. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — The debate, Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u2	Mr President! I thought I'd introduce you both. The schedule may be tight, but I'll try to act quickly. That is to say, just over a month ago, in a referral debate on the renewal of nutrition regulations, our lives changed less than a year ago in such a way that it has not happened since World War II, we are so affected by this corona crisis. On that day of February 9, 2021, we had 114 people in hospital and 15 in intensive care. Currently, there are more than 200 people in hospital and the number of people in intensive care has tripled to about 50 places. According to the THL modelling forecast at Week 8, the current increase in the number of new treatment cycles is about 20% per week for both inpatient and intensive care. Percentage growth has clearly accelerated in the early part of the year. This information has been part of the overall picture of why we are in exceptional circumstances. With the amendment of the Act on Accommodation and Nutrition, restaurants must be kept closed to customers in areas provided for in the Government Decree in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease between 9 March and 28 March 2021. The present proposal concerns the post-closing period, and the proposal would allow a Government regulation to provide for greater restrictions on the opening and drinking time and the number and use of their premises. After the end of the regional closure of nutrition movements, after 28.3.2021, it is very important to ensure that contacts between people and the risks of spreading the epidemic do not increase uncontrollably. At least in March to April 2021 vaccinations do not adequately protect all populations with an increased risk of serious covid-19 disease. In particular, if the epidemic situation is not significantly relieved, greater restrictions on the number of customers of nutrition stores as well as on the time limits for drinking and opening may be necessary. According to the proposal, restrictions on nutrition activities could be tightened in two ways: Firstly, in addition to the current so-called ban on dance, the Government could lay down a regulation on obligations relating to the arrival of customers, such as mandatory reservation of tables, and also obligations relating to the avoidance of communicable activities. This means that loud music and singing could be banned if it is considered necessary to prevent the spread of the epidemic. In practice, in order to avoid contact between people, such restrictions would have a significant impact on the activities of courtship and liquor-intensive restaurants and, to a small extent, on the activities of food and dinner restaurants, for example. Secondly, the Government could tighten the existing restrictions on the number of customers and the opening hours and the time allowed to drink if the legal conditions were met. The maximum limit on the number of customers could be two thirds or half, depending on the nutrition movement's business idea. At its highest, the drinking time could end at 5 p.m. and the opening hours could end at 6 p.m. — this is the strictest. In practice, we will now be monitoring the development of the epidemic in March and we will be prepared in the government to impose the necessary restrictions on regional and nutritional movements by type before the end of the food business closure. In particular, the regulation adopted at that time will assess which areas are to be included in Level 2 according to the government’s hybrid strategy. At level 2, the objective remains to reduce contact rapidly and strongly. We know that as the epidemic spreads, the number of cases typically increases first in young adults with more social contacts. As the disease spreads more widely in the population, there will also be an increase in the number of infections among older people and persons with significant underlying diseases. Mr President! It is all based on the fact that we are capable of making decisions that none of us really want to make. The government did not want to close the food stores in much of the country, but we have also had to make this decision. These restrictions must now continue, but always from the point of view of necessity assessment. Mr President! The purpose of the second proposal before us is to clarify temporarily the temporary closure of the premises provided for by the law in force from customers and participants in order to prevent the spread of the covid-19 epidemic. The aim is to safeguard human health and ultimately the right to life and adequate social and health care services by ensuring that, as a last resort, it is possible to close down the higher risk of infection to customers and participants as a means of preventing the spread of the covid-19 epidemic for a limited period of time. A decision by the Authority to close the high risk of infection would effectively prevent the spread of the disease. The main purpose of the law is to further strengthen the capacity of local and regional authorities to take the necessary and proportionate preventive and rapid measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus and thus to protect the health of the population and to ensure the carrying capacity of the soups. Mr President! Article 58g was added to the Act on Diseases, which entered into force on 22 February 2021, in order to allow the entire closure of the premises provided for by the Act to customers and participants. However, the provision has, in part, proved to be open to interpretation because of the reference to Article 58d(3). Article 58d(3) of the Act provides that the premises open to the public or intended for the stay of a limited customer or participant are, firstly, the interior spaces used for the simultaneous stay of more than 10 customers or participants and, secondly, the territorial and functionally restricted outdoor spaces used for simultaneous purposes for more than 50 customers or participants and whose use for that activity is the responsibility of the organiser of the activity at a given time. The explanatory memorandum states that this would mean premises where more than 10 persons are normally present in continuous operations at the same time. The explanatory memorandum thus further states that the purpose of regulation is to prevent the formation of large-scale transmission chains. The regional decision would not apply to traders who normally have a small number of persons in their indoor or restricted outdoor spaces. That is what was said last time, and there were problems with interpretation. The Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland on 26 February 2021 and the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southwest Finland on 4 March 2021 have interpreted the existing regulation in such a way that, contrary to what has been envisaged, it would be possible to use the premises instead of closing up the premises of business or other activities within the scope of regulation, if the number of participants is limited indoors to up to 10 persons and to a maximum of 50 persons outdoors. Thus, in accordance with the above interpretation, Article 58g on the closure of the premises, adopted by the regional government authorities, In this situation, despite the worsening of the epidemic, it has not been possible to fully apply it. It has not been sufficiently clear to the authorities whether these premises can be completely closed to customers and participants or whether they can continue to operate if the number of customers and participants is limited. And that is why, Mr President, this whole package was brought here to be quickly assessed so that time will no longer be spent on this interpretation, but this matter will be corrected in order to move forward. The proposal thus clarifies Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases, which is in force on a fixed-term basis, as a result of an epidemic of possible closures. The law will be specified in order to make its application as clear as possible and to reflect the purpose of the law, as has already been said here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u3	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u4	Madam President! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! We have three articles on the Act on communicable diseases — Article 58a, Article 58b and that provisional Article 58g — which therefore affect restaurants and gyms. So these discussions were combined, and I will start with this restaurant sector, which has been brought here in such a way that in future the regulation could provide for more stringent restrictions on the opening hours and drinks of restaurants. In the future, then, restaurants could be ordered to be closed at 6 p.m., and the concession would end at 5 p.m. In practice, Mr President, this means that these restaurants will then be effectively closed. However, when you do not close them completely, you are also obviously not bringing them full support over this difficult situation — and that is the problem here. You make it seem like the restaurant could do with the opening hours of the morning or the opening hours of the day, but it can't do if it's made to be a restaurant at night. And I do not understand why such a restaurant would be shut down at 6 p.m. if, until now, in a large restaurant hall, it has been able to make responsible distributions so that they have been eaten by their families or by couples or by themselves. In practice, therefore, this is a complete barrier to food nutritional conditions without full support. Lunch restaurants will then be practically the only ones who can act more or less normally on the basis of these customer limits. The terrace restaurants, slope restaurants — the entrepreneur Jarkko Kuusisto from Levi made a good point and raised the concern that you should understand the difficult situation of these exceptional operators. In their view, Avi could use consideration, for example, as regards the sale of such terraces. In my opinion, this is a perfectly justified proposal from an entrepreneur who has decades of experience. Small cafés are in this very difficult situation, and only gas stations have now been excluded from the show, which means that in the future we will have ABCs open on the side of the road for longer opening hours than the local small cafés or diners. Well, then, this question of compensation. It would be well justified for this compensation for restaurants to be brought here side by side with these restrictive measures. The government's bill is talking about 50 million. I think the actual amount is about 140 million. At least fixed costs must be reimbursed to these companies, whose freedom of trade and freedom of enterprise, are being violated. Mr President! Then this Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases. Avihan remained in the decision: gyms and other private spaces were allowed to be open if there were no more than 10 participants. The Ministry then announced that it was considering tightening up the law, and now this tightening has been introduced. Merja Ekqvist, Director General of the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland, said in her press release of 2.3.2021: “Our decision-making schedule is fast but with a very strong legal expertise. The most important cornerstone of our action is legality, and we have not compromised this decision in our preparation. We understand very well the purpose of the Act on communicable diseases and the objectives of its new articles and the seriousness of the disease situation. Now we want peace of work for our experts and management. “ Well, in this Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases, we now want to close these places also to small amateur groups. After all, when these restrictive measures are only to be taken if there is evidence that there has been a chain of infection there, the question should now be asked of these cases, which have now operated in groups of less than 10 persons, for example, in gyms, whether they appear to have left them. Is there still a constitutional requirement to tighten up this decision, as set out here? I will take an example of my own home. The small but peppery Lopen Voima and the fitness team under Markku Savolainen have done an excellent job. They've created a schedule booking system. The hall has no more than 6 people, disinfectants, one-and-a-half hour periods, and they have been able to run responsibly — no infection. Now they're going to be closed. There's no basis for that. This proposal, Mr President, also means that these halls, these swimming pools, swimming pools, can no longer be used for the rehabilitation of even one person. There's no sense in that. The individual level of rehabilitation should be limited and this discretion should be allowed, which they have now used. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there have been any transmission chains in these, where we have now been working on these numbers of less than 10 enthusiasts. And, Mr President, at the end of the day, I will raise the issue of horse riding schools, for example. This great, wonderful hobby of ours has natural security distances. Even though we ride on the manes, they're outdoors. You can't count it as a group sport, but now this show is also about to close your riding history, and I'd like to ask: would this not be a place for regional and local and species-specific consideration?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u11	It is not possible to interpret, but a short debate will now be launched and it will be initiated by the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u12	Mr President! On 27 February, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health adopted a report on the extension of restaurant restrictions. In this connection, we received an official statement from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health stating that the existing restrictions were necessary but sufficient. It was only ten days, and all the restaurants were closed — i.e. 9.3. — and now we are a week away from dealing with stricter restaurant restrictions here. And when you think about this three-week period, it comes to thinking that it would be better if we were able to do a little more long-term work in legislation, so that the industry could prepare itself for this, and at one time we would make such gradual provisions in that law that, in a changing situation, we would always be able to live with them and have clear information that when the epidemic is at this stage and at this stage,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u13	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u14	Mr President! We now have a continuation and tightening of restaurant restrictions on the previous lock, and this is a very serious crisis for restaurants, both for entrepreneurs and workers. Many companies will not survive this if this is to happen, and many workers are already in financial distress. There is no epidemiological basis for closing restaurants at 6 p.m. It does not look at the time of the time, it looks at how to behave, and it is the social contacts that may be susceptible to infection. If safety intervals and hygiene are taken care of, this can be done safely, at the very least, so that restaurants can be open for later.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u15	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u16	Madam President! This debate started as I expected, and we do not like the fact that we are restricting a sector, some activity, because everyone thinks that the reason for this corona is elsewhere, and it has not been possible to suggest enough that it is in the sector in which they are working or in which they are working. However, it is now a matter of three weeks ago that Finland moved on to a curve of coronality which, in many other countries, led to an incredibly difficult, even catastrophic situation, and we now have time to take measures in time to prevent us from going into that situation. It is a question of reducing contact, and then we will have to go through the whole of society. Of course, we must compensate entrepreneurs and businesses for the things we limit, but this is at the heart of the matter:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u17	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u18	Madam President! I am sure Mr Lindén will say the same thing, but I wonder how you, Minister Kiuru and the Government, will bring in such proposals, which in practice lock Finland down, restrict the activities of Finnish citizens, and at the same time the borders are leaking. As early as last autumn, the Chancellor of Justice called for action to be taken to make border control work, to close the borders. In this case, then, we too are demanding those limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u22	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u23	Madam President! A representative of the government parties mentioned here that long-termism is required, but when that is exactly what you lack. What is being done here is what is currently being called a nuisance in the restaurant sector, but, as was mentioned in the previous speech, this direct disaster in the area of border security has still not been resolved. That's at first reading a little later today. The fact is that for us the virus and its carriers are still running, flying and walking across borders, and nothing has been done about it for a year. Today we will be able to discuss whether or not it is really a question of legal incompetence, of incompetence in the drafting of legislation, of a lack of leadership. But the fact is that yesterday avit announced, among other things, on Twitter and the STT press release, that it will now be forced to test when PeVi has become a statement — which, oh, was already 5.3. — what many others have said before. This is very amazing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u25	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u26	Mr President! If we look at the results of this transmutation virus throughout Europe, then, first of all, there may not be a single country in continental Europe, which, regardless of the boundaries, would have been able to prevent the advent of the transmutation virus. Throughout the world, the transmutation virus has done a lot of damage, especially in countries that have failed to limit its spread within the country. I believe that the concerns and thoughts of all of us are with restaurant entrepreneurs and workers who are in an unreasonable situation. But it was only a few weeks ago that there was a common understanding in this Chamber that we are now trying to impose restrictions specifically on the activities of adults and a little tighter so that they can be kept shorter, so that the disease situation can break down and that we can free children and young people as quickly as possible. Isn't this the right line?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u27	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u28	Mr President! I am surprised that even in the explanatory memorandum section this proposal does not give any consideration to the negative health effects of the total locks on sports facilities. There is research evidence that regular exercise exercises reduce respiratory infections and improve defense. With current restrictions, these restrictions on persons under ten and other measures, there is no risk of infection in gyms or, for example, children’s indoor playgrounds and trampoline parks. The question arises as to whether there is now a dispute of prestige between the ministry and the regional government agencies. In order to get rid of these tough restrictions on freedoms, it would really be important to get this vaccination coverage as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u29	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u30	Thank you, Madam President. It is important, as has been pointed out here in previous speeches, that we have the means to deal with the situation, in advance and also regionally, according to different types of restaurant and according to different activities, and then avoid such sudden decisions. And yes, it requires that these means be brought into the legislation sufficiently. We do not have to use them all if the epidemic situation is better than expected, but they must be available in time and we must go in that direction. Of course, the security of the borders must also be put in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u31	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u32	Thank you, Mr President. This border issue is quite interesting if you think about it and start comparing it. We are being told that we have strict border controls on these issues, but it is not. If we compare to any other country, it seems that we have a rather lax job. Originally over a year ago, when the corona came, we should have immediately paid more attention to these border systems. I'm really sorry that there's that corona coming and going. This is definitely something we need to pay more attention to. This is really serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u33	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u37	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u38	Madam President! Finns have obediently complied with the restrictions — that is why we have succeeded relatively well in this fight against the corona epidemic — but Finns do not understand that the corona virus is allowed to travel freely across borders and at the same time the government is constantly tightening up the possibilities for Finns to act, the possibility for entrepreneurs to cope with this corona crisis. When the Chancellor of Justice, after all the government parties, opposition parties, expert sources have stated why there is no claim at the borders of Finland for a preliminary interest test result — this has been demanded from all sides — why have you not taken action? I ask you, Minister Kiuru: why have you not brought this bill to the House? Many things could be different if we had prevented that variant virus from flowing into Finland. I'll ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u39	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u40	Värderade Talman! Vi lever i en tid då vi inte vet hur coronapandemin kommer att utveckla sig, och därför är olika restrictioner för att begränsa medborgarnas contacter nu extra viktiga och nödvändiga. Restaurangbranschen har variant speciellt usatt... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u43	Madam President! However, now that these new restrictions on restaurants are coming after this three-week lock, and Parliament has repeatedly emphasised regional scrutiny in the opinions of the committees, it must go to a smaller unit. My constituency is about the same as what is from Oulu to Helsinki, and it is quite clear that half of Finland should not be treated as one. Now that the Government has this power of regulation, will you reduce these regions to smaller units from the provinces, because the epidemic is, of course, bad in Uusimaa and Varsinais-Suomi, but it is not so worrying everywhere? This would now be very important if companies, after a year of loss of all buffers and capital, did not find themselves in an even more difficult situation because of parliamentary restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u45	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u46	Yeah, thank you! Excuse me, Speaker, because the microphone didn't want to go on. — Thank you, Mr President. I have asked many representatives of the government parties several times, and now I ask the Minister: when are you going to bring the negative test certificate legislation to Parliament? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs already gave it the green light in October, stating that it was possible and acceptable. After that, a discussion began that Parliament had rejected it. It was rejected for being so poorly prepared, and Minister Harakka understood to cancel it. So when is it coming? And appeal to committee: Make changes to this so that individual rehabilitation, for example, is not impossible. After all, the use of reason in this house is still permitted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u47	Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u48	Madam President! You hear the opposition's choice and the government's choice. Personally, I would like to express the view that we are all in agreement with this issue and that we want to make as little restrictions as possible and thus protect people. These restrictions on restaurants are necessary in this respect, but I also understand our services workers. Then, as far as border traffic is concerned, Mr Kiuru has already presented this compulsory testing and so on in the autumn, at the risk of prison punishment, so you know that we are bound by certain legal and legal frameworks within which we have had to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u51	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u52	Mr President! I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber is of the opinion, or perhaps someone, but quite a few that nothing should be done or that entrepreneurs do not understand that restrictions are needed. The problem, however, is what Mr Salmon already referred to in his introductory speech: the lack of predictability. It was said that we are now on time and being prevented, but we are not on time. It is now, as it were, redefining what was already being regulated last autumn in the preparation of the amendment to the Act on communicable diseases. Mr President! I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the presentation of the Act on communicable diseases which you brought to Parliament last autumn and which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health stated in its report that this specific reference to the premises is problematic and will cause problems of interpretation. Furthermore, in your own government proposal it was expressly stated that this interpretation of the avi is the one that should be made of it. The Ministry of Justice also stated this in its opinion. It is therefore not a matter of special interpretation or difficulty of interpretation,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u53	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u54	Mr President! Representative My angle was excellent in saying that we need a more finer regional review. The situation in the capital region with regard to the epidemic is very bad now and strict restrictive measures are needed. At the same time, we have — let us take Kilpisjärvi for example: there has been no case within a 300 km radius for months, and it is difficult to understand why all the restaurants are now closed. The second point is that, of course, we would have liked to have been able to distinguish more closely between the beverage restaurants and the food restaurants. I also understand that in the worst epidemic areas, pubs and nightclubs would be kept completely closed and food restaurants would be allowed to be a little more open if there is no evidence that food restaurants have left infected chains. So this is the kind of review I would have liked to see, I'll be honest with you. I am sure that, together, all of us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will also consider this issue, where perhaps there would be a need for more precise regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u55	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u56	Madam President! Surely this is the case that no one here is putting these restrictions into effect for fun. We know how much this causes problems for citizens and businesses and for society as a whole in terms of reduced tax resources and economic decline. But when you look at the functioning of the government, you have to blame the fact that this whole process of drafting the law — timeliness and proportionality — has been limped here. In that sense, we are now in a situation where, as it were, a section and a paragraph on these points are being quilled. Of course, the main problem is that the borders were not reached in time, as has been pointed out in many speeches. However, Minister, I would have liked to return to the question raised. Would it have made sense in this context to bring these allowances as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u57	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u58	Mr President! In my speech, I will focus mainly on this section 58g, which concerns these sports facilities. It is worth noting here that this law in itself is very much the same as it was in the past, and it is now simply intended to clarify the possibility of closing these indoor sports facilities and outdoor sports facilities of less than 10 persons and less than 50 persons in the situation where this is particularly necessary. I believe that this is important now in the sense that the regional supervisory authorities are clearly aware of the circumstances in which they have the opportunity to do so. But it must be borne in mind that this possibility only comes when all the other measures have been taken and all the criteria have been met, so this is not an arbitrary opportunity to leave after this to close everyone down.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u59	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u60	Mr President! This is really about to re-restrict restaurants after this lock, and I do wonder, for example, how much food restaurants are involved in this. These will die in practice from these restrictive measures — people are working before five, they are not eating at the restaurant. This should now have been accompanied by the sale of alcohol with these take-away foods and the VAT rebates and the separation of the terraces. And I would like to point out to this debate that, now that these restrictions are being imposed on restaurants and customer premises on a continuous feed, I would like to remind you that in the HUS area the infections of 0 to 15-year-olds have increased sixfold over the last three weeks. I would also like the government to pay attention to this. Now this matter of distance school is being circumvented like a cat of hot oatmeal, and as is heard here, so children and young people should not be restricted, but they are not in restaurants,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u63	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u64	Madam President! After three weeks of closure, the government plans to open restaurants in a way that will not allow the restaurants to open. One entrepreneur called yesterday morning and asked why the government wanted to limit this restaurant business, where he himself has been an entrepreneur for a long time. He described this current wave in the field as a complete slaughter. The year has been similar to the fact that there has been no anticipation. Where's the discount on the alves? Where are the distance sales of alcohol? Where are the measures that actually compensate for costs not just supported? Few citizens can understand that borders are leaking while young people are unable to engage in activities, that there are many restrictions on their livelihoods, and that older people in particular are forced to live in a well-insulated environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u65	We have spent about 45 minutes of what we have here, but at this point I will give Mr Kiuru 3 minutes, and then we will go to the next point where we can resume the debate. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u66	Mr President! There was a lot of discussion about borders, but these proposals, which were in the referral debate today, relate specifically to the closure of different types of leisure, residence and entertainment facilities and to a more detailed proposal on them. The second performance has to do with restaurants. In this debate, the disease situation seems to lag very much behind the representatives. The situation is very serious at the moment, and these interventions are not entirely appropriate to this disease situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u75	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u76	Now we will continue with the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary and the debate will continue. — Representative Talvitie absent, representative Sarkomaa absent. — — — — Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u77	Mr President! These government proposals for amendments to the Act on communicable diseases were already discussed earlier in the day, and then I realised that these treatments were being combined. Now, apparently, no longer and these proposals will be discussed separately, when we have them here separately. We have had a lot of talk in Parliament today about whether we are now safe at the rate of interest, i.e. whether we are still suffering from a disease at the Finnish borders. At the moment we know that it is about 1.5% as far as borders are concerned. Earlier today, the amendments to Articles 16 and 22 of the Act on communicable diseases were adopted and voted on, the proposal was called the 'Boundary HE' and, in connection with it, Parliament required a unanimous statement that, in the future, care should be taken to ensure that this pre-test requirement is also met. After all, the amendment to the Act on Diseases was one of the legislative proposals prepared by the government throughout the autumn that corona could, as it were, gradually be better combated when the disease situation in different parts of the country is progressing. And this Act on communicable diseases introduced such gradual steps forward, i.e. when we are at the basic level, certain measures can be taken, and then we move on gradually. Of course, it could have been hoped and required — when it came to the so-called normal drafting of the law - that all these changes which are now being brought here, as it were, should have been taken care of in the same context. In fact, now — and this applies in particular to the next item, Section 58g — entrepreneurs are in a rather disproportionate situation. Many have just adapted to the changes required by the Regional State Administrative Agencies, for example in the Southern Finland region, i.e. that there can be no more than 10 people on the premises at once, and other requirements, such as those contained in section 58d, i.e. keeping distances, limiting the number of customers, etc. And now, as far as restaurants are concerned by this proposal itself, we come to a situation where restaurants are currently closed, only sales are allowed, but at the same time we do not want to make it easier for restaurants to overcome this crisis, for example by allowing alcohol to be sold out of wine-rich products or, for example, by reducing VAT on alcohol. Now that, after these restrictions, we are about to present a proposal that would allow the operating conditions of restaurants to be limited so much that the operation would not actually be profitable, so that restaurants might not necessarily be open... [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : I request that a representative be transferred to the [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u80	At the beginning of his speech, Mr Multala wondered what the procedure was. There is still the fact that these points 3 and 4 have, as it were, been combined in the debate, i.e. both can continue to be discussed. — And now Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u81	Mr President! It must be said at the outset, without underestimating the plight of many other entrepreneurs and groups of citizens, that restaurant entrepreneurs and restaurant workers have lived for a very disproportionate year — in practice, a year of silence. And as nice as it is to see a brighter spring, it has to be said that the restaurant industry still lives on the edge of the knife in how it is to survive on its way to summer. We all see around us and know how to see the situation. The doors are bolted, and even after these billings, the brisk restrictions continue especially where the virus runs. It's hard to explain it better than it is. At the same time, the government's proposal, that is to say, the proposal in the third, provides for business premises that could be covered by a decision to close down. These include sports and sports facilities, gyms, public saunas, swimming pools and spas, dance venues, amateur theatre facilities, amusement and theme parks, indoor playgrounds and shopping centers, excluding retail shops. So there's a hard ride. But I don't think it's up to me to say that we can't do this. I don't think it's up to me to say we give up. I don't think it's up to me to say that we're going on like we don't have a virus. I would also like to pay tribute to the government for the fact that, in this case, we are working hard to ensure that the disease does not rob itself, for example, like its brother, Estonia, and that it is an honorable, understandable and right goal. And it is true that the advantage of all kinds of business, looking a little further into the future, is that the fight against the virus is playing. In this light, the government is constantly back against the wall and has no choice but to make heavy and unpleasant decisions. President! However, I would focus on my sincere wish that these proposals should not prevent reasonable thinking either. It is of paramount importance that restrictions on both restaurants and other activities should not be exaggerated. It is also quite clear that the pub conditions, karaoke and the places where beer flows are the most risky, such as a white-cloth restaurant, where the emphasis is on a good steak rather than on other pleasures. Similarly, the fact that a restaurant in Mannerheimintie is on a different line from a restaurant in which the disease situation is completely or at least better controlled and controlled. It is also good to note that a person who strengthens himself at the gym also performs health work, which is a crucial cornerstone of well-being for many. Gymking in the living room is not quite the same as versatile gym equipment. President! I also hope in every way that the reasonable compensation resulting from the restrictions can be implemented. We all know that when income is almost zero and expenditure remains, the equation is unsustainable. Of course, society cannot be a cash-sharing machine, but its task is to protect with claws and teeth the ability of people to do their jobs. President! At the end of the day: We can do what is possible for restaurants and all other businesses – in this time – even if we order take-away food. And when the corona retreats and the vaccines are for the safety of the nation, fill the restaurants, gyms, spas, theatres, sports theaters and all possible places and go to meet each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u82	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u83	Madam President! I will start with this presentation on restaurants. It has been a pity that when we think about where the infections came from and how they came from, all these guys go in one cluster, all the restaurants, cafes, pubs, nightclubs, lunches, that is, they can't trace or tell. As Mr Kivisaari well said, there are also differences between these restaurants and other places of celebration, which means that it is a little different for me to have lunch in Hämeenkyro during the day than for me to go to a nightclub here in Helsinki if they were still open after ten. Yes, the situation is quite different and the situation of possible transmission.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u86	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u87	Mr President! Getting control of the epidemic is in the best interests of all of us. That is why we must now support any effective and proportionate means of controlling the disease. These government proposals are now aimed at the time of the restaurant closure. It should be remembered that even so far, a rather confused communication around these matters has turned the minds of entrepreneurs. The public statements made by ministers are important, and I would not be surprised if, even after today's debate, many entrepreneurs were wondering what is really going on here after this closure. So there's a lot of confusion, and there's a lot of possibilities for interpretation. In any case, what is known and understood is the need for precision. It's hard work, but it's necessary. There is a clear need to distinguish between the nature of the restaurant business, a reliable risk assessment and then an assessment of the continuing business activity and the various restrictive solutions. It is hard work, but it must be done if we want the economic wheels to rotate in some way from the end of the spring. Mr President! The second point is the identification of differences within the provinces. This debate was then held under the lock in a referral debate. Here today, representatives from downtown spoke of Lapland's distances. There are also considerable distances in the sub-regions, and the differences in epidemics within the province can be significant. This must be reflected in the implementation of the law. This message has been reported a few weeks ago by a very large number of representatives from the centre: analyses are carried out within the provinces, and localities can also see how these closures are made. The Coalition Party has spoken about these matters. In its own opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy last gave guidance that these specific reviews should also be carried out in the regions. Then what's the problem? Now that we are going to take this law forward here in Parliament, I would like to put my hopes on the representatives of the centre, who have now brought this issue to the fore. The Coalition Party supports these solutions to the full, and I believe that other government parties will also be awakened through it, when here you can see such government-opposition cooperation, because this is a really important issue in the provinces of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u88	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u89	Madam President! Over the past year, we have already dealt many times in this Chamber with restrictions on nutrition movements, and that is what we are doing again today. We had a long debate here earlier today, and the debate was quite lively. Regrettably, however, the epidemic situation has accelerated over the last few weeks and we are currently in the process of closing down restaurants in areas of spread and acceleration. The closing space is due to end on 28 March, but what happens after that, and how will the restaurant business continue? However, three weeks of closure is a very short period of time in a situation like this. What is our epidemic situation at that time? None of us have a definite answer to that. If we have learned anything, there are more questions than answers with this virus. However, best efforts must be made to prepare for the future and to decide on possible further restrictive measures in the event of a deterioration in the epidemic situation. This preparation should also be done with regard to nutritional activities. We are still in a situation between March and April where vaccination coverage does not adequately protect all populations with an increased risk of serious disease. At the same time, consideration must also be given to the fact that new virus variants also seem to mistreat basic and younger people. If the epidemic situation does not improve, follow-up will be necessary. The Government's proposal now under discussion aims to prevent the strong threat of virus transformation that increasing cases of disease will lead to an overload of hospital and intensive care capacity in the coming months. It should be stressed, however, that restrictions on nutritional movements are only one of the restrictions on a number of other activities. At the same time, however, it must be recognised that the restaurant sector is one of the most important sectors that have been affected so far — both entrepreneurs and workers. The situation is serious and I am sure that we share that concern here. With regard to the epidemic, it is now proposed that, in the regions at level 2, the Government regulation could provide for more stringent restrictions on the opening hours of catering establishments, on drinking time and on the number of customers. The restrictions would most strongly affect the activities of courtship and licensed restaurants and, most importantly, the activities of lunch restaurants and cafés, for example. In this context, it should be noted that the proposed additional restrictive measures should be provided for by a Regulation only if the spread of the communicable disease is necessary due to the rapid acceleration of the epidemic or the threat of a modified virus and if it is found that the spread of the virus and the clusters of diseases in which the transmission chains could no longer be reliably identified. Mr Sankelo spoke a moment ago about regional restrictions and the different situations in the provinces. In the larger provinces the situation may be very different from one region to another, and I personally see that this needs to be looked at and the precise scope of the restrictive measures should be carefully considered, and I believe that this will be the case in committee. The negative effects of the current fixed-term lock and any subsequent larger restrictions will be significant. However, the economic impact depends in particular on the evolution of the epidemic situation at the end of March and beyond. The hope is increased by the continuous increase in vaccine coverage and the convergence of summer, which should bring the expected relief from the seasonal variation of the epidemic. Of course, it's still a long way to the summer. There are always fundamental legal issues relating to restrictive measures, which have, of course, been discussed quite extensively in recent times. This proposal, too, should materially interfere with constitutional rights, such as freedom of business and the protection of property. In the past, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed the necessity and proportionality of various restrictive measures. However, it should be noted that constitutional rights to life and the necessary care, as well as the duty of the public authorities to ensure adequate health services and to promote the health of the population, are very heavy constitutional rights and, in order to protect these rights, restrictive measures are acceptable when they can be shown to be necessary. As has been said, this measure is one way of curbing the epidemic. The only way that really works is to avoid any extra contact. It is up to each of us now how much further restrictive measures will be needed. Let us do everything we can to make things easier as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u90	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Finns are rightly considered to be a obedient people who abide by the rules. We are a people who, instead of storming, are in line systematically and even in that context, maintain an appropriate distance to the next mate. At times this obedient and abstinent character of our people may have been ridiculed a little. In the fight against Korona, however, it has been our advantage, which may even have aroused envy in neighbouring countries. Finns have strictly adhered to restrictions, kept security distances, and so we have managed to keep the levels of infection low compared to many other countries. Finns understand the need for restrictive measures when it comes to protecting the well-being of the nation and its members. Finns have also understood that restrictions have been imposed on the restaurant sector during the crisis. However, Finns do not understand that, at the same time that the doors of restaurants are hit in the sack, the door pump at the borders of the kingdom sings the arrival regardless of the test result. At the same time as the opening hours of restaurants are taken an hour there and an hour here tomorrow, the import of corona has been allowed to continue without significant import restrictions, regardless of the type of handicraft. Mr President! While there are restrictions on restaurant customers and staff have had to turn paying customers from the door, at the gates of the kingdom the government has welcomed the arrivals and expressed their wish for self-preservation. While the much maligned restaurant industry and other livelihoods are being put on their knees in Finland, it is necessary to know what is happening at our borders in a sense of proportionality. I will now read the message I have received, which tells me what kind of action the government has allowed at the borders. The message reads as follows — and I have received permission from the employee to publish it: ‘In the course of I work at the port of Helsinki at the so-called "corona test point for crossing the border" and I can tell you that this has been quite a joke since the beginning of these stations. At the beginning of one of our working days, it was known in advance that an Estonian car is arriving at our point, where passengers have at least one positive corona test result. After all, nothing can be done about this in itself, as the condition for crossing the border is not currently a negative test result. Of course, they were asked to take a test when the car arrived, but then their journey continued freely — wherever it was. Otherwise, no one will be tested at the border unless they want to. A negative test should be required to e.g.: At the end of Estonia, you can even get to the ship, but you get completely untested from it all the time. They should fill in the personal data sheet You don't ask for anything from a freighter or a day cruise. They're also allowed to move on, even though they're in the same condition as the other cruisers... Beautifully put, it is quite pretentious...’ — And while we are here in the Chamber, at this point this citizen has used a word that describes the stuff that comes out of that trunk. — — — — ‘If there was no job in the mortgage,sonomoralshould It is easy for the government to suggest that restrictions on restaurants are necessary at a time when the disease situation has been allowed to deteriorate as a result of the border control of locusts. However, we would not have to discipline domestic livelihoods if the government had been prepared to abandon its ideological principles. Instead, it has held its teeth to the fact that, even in the time of the corona, the green left government does not fully promote the 'cross-border' policy. As a result, the virus mutations have been able to retake Finland and new cases continue to flow to our country, even though traffic at borders is more quiet than usual. Mr President! When the government seems to fear the stigma of closing borders to its last, it does not seem to be frighteningly affected by what is happening to domestic entrepreneurs, to the staff employed by them and to the households that depend on these livelihoods. When Finns do everything in their power to protect other Finns, the government should start learning from the citizens after a year of corona school. Although it is usually a hard place for the green left, even in these circumstances, let us put our own benefits first. So let's get the infection rates down in our home country and not let the citizens of another country who carry the corona water down the sacrifices made by the Finns. In this way, we can free Finnish businesses, families and citizens from the discipline they have so far successfully overcome. And, Mr President, when I listened here and in the study to the speeches made by the MPs of the government parties about the criticism of the need for everything to be put in the sack to the extent that the government is proposing, I would remind you that you are in the government itself, and we in the opposition are prepared to impose proportionate restrictions. Now I think to you that, when this government proposal is discussed in the committees, I really hope that you will be together with us to correct this government proposal, because in the event of a vote we will finally see whether these speeches of yours are just speeches or whether you are prepared to do things for the Finns as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u92	Congressman Rehn-Kivi gone, Congressman Marttine gone. — Mr Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u93	Irade fru talman! Bekämpningen av coronaviruset är viktig och hits har Finland lyckats mycket bra i en internationalell jämförelse. Genom det rai lagförslaget begär regeringen om en fullmakt att kraftigt konna begränsa restauranters öppethållningstider och deras kundplatser om man finner det nödvändigt. Vad som i practicekken kommenter bedömas för att uppfylla nödvändighetskriteriet blir oklart i lagförslaget, och det är enligt min mening problematiskt. Jag vill därför fråga var gränsen i practiceken kommer att gå. Vad ska incidenstalet vara för att de ai begränsningarna i practiceken ska börja användas? Om man exempelvis på Åland registerraråtta fall under en 14 dagars period är man uppe i ett incidentstal på 25 som skulle innebära att man på pappret är i accelerationsfasen. Även om samtliga fall skulle komma från en och samma famil och utan risk för samhällsspridning så skulle det betyda att alla restaurant och terrasser skulle behöva stadan klockan 18 på grund av åtta fall, om regeringen tänkt använda accelerationsfasen som definition för nödvändigheten. Det skullle vara orimligt. Det skulle därför viktigt att veta innan vi börjar utskottsbehandlingen var man bedömer att gränsen för nödvändigheten i practicen kommer att dras. Ska incidenstalet reserve 25, 50, 100, 200 eller någonting you give? Var kommer den röda line konkret att vara för att begränsningarna ska träda i kraft? Irade fru talman! Att begränsa restaurangerna så att de måste stänga redan klockan 18 och begränsa kundplatserna så kraftigt som i lagförslaget — på viviplatser skulle bara en tredjedel av kundplatserna få användas och på alla andra maximalt älften — betyder i practiceken att man kommer stanga många restaurant ettersom lönsamheten inte kommer att kunna uppnås. Det kommer då att få massiva effekter på economist, arbetsplatser och samhället överlag. Den åtgärden måste då kunna motiveras med nödvändigheten och att det verkligen stoppar smittspridningen, och är underlaget för hur många smittfall som verklänupkommit på restaurantnger och kaféer inte helt tydligt. Lagförslaget föreslår att begränsningarna ska få vara i kraft till den 30 juni, alltså till effect midsommar. Det är en lång tid. Vid den tiden i fjol var restaurangerna i practiceken i full gång och det räddade många företagare och arbetsplatser utan att det innebar någon kraftig smittspridning. För om restaurangerna och utserveringarna är stängda effectter klockan 18 och serveringen är slut klonckan 17, som föreslås, kommer människor i tillet samlas i parkerna eller i hemmen, något vi ser att hender också nu då restaurantangerna är stängda. Förra våren hade vi också smittkedjor som uppkom från parker där vivi grupper samlades då restaurangerna var stängda. Det är ju inte restaurantmillion i sig som är farlig, utan att pineskor är fysiskt nara varandra. Ibland kan fysska avstånd lattare ordnas i en restaurant n hemma i en soffa i en lägenhet eller på en picknickfilt i en park. Viruses titar Heller inte på klonckan och kommer inte fram först effecter klonckan 18. Irade fru talman! Om begränsningarna ska vara i kraft till effect midsommaren kommer det också ha en negativ effectkt på sommarjobb för unga i de rai regionerna där begränsningen gäller. Som restaurantföretagare är det säkert så att redan ett hot om att dessa begränsningar skulle kunna träda i kraft är så allvarligt att man funderar ifall man ska annstalla extra sommarpersonal eller om det är värt att överhuvudtaget öppna för sommarsäsongen i vi enskilda fall. Irade the Talman! Då kommer vi in på frågan om ekonomisk compensation. Hur har man tänkt att strabbade företagare och anstalllda ska komenseras ifall det rai lagförslaget godkänns och sedan utfärda de förordningarna som det möjliggör? Restaurantengerna är för tilfället stängda i de flesta landskapen, men ännu har inget stödpaket presenters för dem och ovissheten är stor då de ekonska reservna hos många företag är små. Det skulle nästän vara bättre om de var helt stängda en kortare tid och att alla då skulle anstränga sig för att få läget under control och att man sedan kan öppna, än en lång utdragen tid med så kraftiga restrictioner att restaurantangerna ändå inte kan vara öppna i practicekken och den ekonomiska kommenten blir oklar. Det är också något som restaurangbranchen vill. Det jag undrar om man övervägt är att i ställett separa olika categoriier av restaurant. På nattklubbarr och karaokebarer är det svårt att hålla avstån och rösterna nere, men på uuteserveringar i skärgården, quarskrogar och på terrasser på sommarkvällen borde det inte vara svårt att hålla fysiska avstånd. Det är svårt att motivera att alla dras över samma kam då riskerna är så olika. Det går att motivera att nattklubbar inte öppnas Heller i sommar, men det sanns oproportionerligt om alla restaurant måste stänga klockan 18. Det finns också enligt mig en risk för att en så rai lång utdragen period blir contraproduktiv och att det helt enkelt blir för länge för att tillräckligt många ska ha motiationen att orka och att man samlas på privata platser i tillet för restauranter. Det äcker med att ett relativt litet antal struntar i rekommentationerna för att vi ska få en större smittspridning och att övriga restrictionner som en consekns blir mindre effektiva. Därför behövs proportioner, och det här lagförslaget änns som att vi behöver jobba med det en god bit i utskotten. Irade the Talman! Det är viktigt att ta coronaviruset på stort allvar, Vilket finländerna har gjort, men enligt mig skulle det vara effktivare att direkt ännu kraftigare åtgärder direkt ur beredskapslagen, ifall läget kraft kraftigt försämras, ä att man får den är fullmakten som riskerar skapa osäkerhet och som kan bli contraproduktivt. Beredskapslagens paragrafer kan ju också träda i kraft snabbare än en lagändring, så på så vis har regeringen fortfarande ännu kraftigare verktyg att vidta åtgärder som gör att restaurantanger i practicen varken kan varken varken varan vara helt öppna eller Heller enligt beslut helt stängda. Irade the Talman! Avslutningsvis: Det är som sagt viktigt att bekämpa coronaviruses, och förhoppningen är att vi får ner smittspridningen så mycket att saker kan vara så normalt som vöjligt i sommar, på samma sätt som i fjol eller ännu battre. Det gör också att de negativa ekonomiska effekterna blir mindre. Många medborgare är som sagt trötta och riskerar då att bli mer likgiltiga, vilket vi redan ser många tecken på. Jag hoppas att alla ännu skulle orka kämpa fram till sommaren då vaccinationerna nu är på gång, för om vi håller läget bra så behöver inte fler restrictioner Heller användas. Det är en win-win. Samtidigt är det latt att vi som beslutsfatta också blir trötta och me liliglitiga. Det är ändå viktigt att också vi orkar kämpa med att utforma alla lagförslag så optimalt att de motverkar coronasmite medan de samtidigt minimerar de samtiigt ekonomiska och övriga samhällela negativa bieffekterna. Avslutningsvis, arade talman, tycker jag att eventuella restrictionner på Åland skulle beslutas av landskapsregeringen på samma sätt som övriga smittskyddslagen är uppbyggd. — Tack. [First Vice-President TarjaFilatov : Translation, thank you. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u96	Congressman Packale's gone. — Mr Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Löfström spoke for a long time, but the speech was so excellent that he liked to listen to it, and he also listened to this excellent translation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u98	Mr President! The interest rate situation has deteriorated in Finland, especially as a result of the conversion virus. It is important that the lives and health of Finns are protected and that the government acts to combat the virus. It is equally important to understand that the means by which the government wants to combat the corona are ultimately political choices. The cultural and event sector has been subject to particularly massive restrictions for a year. The work has been taken away from tens of thousands of Finns in full lockdown — a year of silence. However, the inviolable karaoke of the bars has been allowed to spin until these days, at the same time as the professionals have been put on the card and on non-existent compensation. This has been a political choice. The exclusion of food restaurants and fitness halls under discussion today is a political choice. It is also a choice that borders have been allowed to leak the virus. These decisions are not a question of inevitability or of the outcome of some mysterious legal entity, but of the choices made by the government. The government has made a choice when, despite the opposition's proposals, it did not want to provide in good time for a less restrictive mask to restrict people's freedom or to block a corona leak in the borders. The Government states that it wishes to clarify Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases, which is in force on a fixed-term basis in its present proposal, which will enable the closure of sports facilities as a result of the epidemic. In practice, the draft law means that indoor sports facilities are closed by decision of the avi, regardless of the number of users and the security arrangements, when the incidence of the interest rate is sufficiently high. The article currently in force makes it possible to open sports facilities with a maximum number of 10 participants. This allows health-security movement also in large sports facilities with a small number of participants. This makes sense. The current interpretation of allowing the number of participants of ten persons was the result of a dispute between the Regional State Administrative Agencies and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The regional government office's interpretation is correct. In a previous government proposal, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health itself wrote that the premises under Section 58g could be closed indoors for more than ten persons. Why does the Ministry now propose a change to its own written law, which has only just come into force and to which entrepreneurs have just adapted? Mr President! In the light of the choices made, the government gives little value to freedom of industry and the importance of physical activity in promoting health. This is strongly reflected in the restrictive measures against SMEs, which are still proposed to be tightened up. For many sports service entrepreneurs, the present performance means total suspension of activities and the end of physical activity for many Finns. In terms of public health, the price may be high. Has total closure of sports facilities been considered until the end? For entrepreneurs, their employees and sports enthusiasts, it would be of enormous importance to continue to be able to exercise a limited number of activities in the field of health safety, with a smaller number of participants rather than having to be interrupted altogether. Many entrepreneurs have also made big arrangements to meet existing regulatory obligations. Now these measures are threatening to go to waste when the restrictions are suddenly changing again. Restriction measures should be based on a gradual approach, so that more stringent restrictions would only be introduced when less restrictive measures prove inadequate. That is what the Constitution requires. Now the government's proposal seems to confuse this important principle and create an absurd situation. The obligation to ensure that close customer contact does not occur applies only to premises used for stays of more than ten customers. On the other hand, the most restrictive measure, i.e. the full closure of the premises, is to be applied to all holdings, regardless of the number of persons. In other words, in the case of small holdings of participants, the entrepreneur could not even try to do so less easily, i.e. to avoid contact. Does such regulation meet the requirements of necessity and proportionality? Mr President! Sensitive Finns and companies understand the limitations that seem and seem fair. The experience of fairness is crucial if people are to survive. Unfair and disproportionate restrictions can erode the high coronaral of Finns. The first thing the government should do is put in place those things that limit the freedoms of fundamental rights less: the mask and border control into order.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u99	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u100	Thank you, Madam President. The present proposal does not apply to the state of closure, but is intended to be in force until the end of June, i.e. for three months, which are very long months of exhilaration for restaurant entrepreneurs and restaurant workers, and we all know how these stories are likely to end. The good government, when planning these restrictions, did you at all consider the practical impact of these restrictions on restaurant companies, their employees and their stakeholders? Have you figured out how much of the income from the food restaurants will be generated during each hour of the evening? If, for example, the opening hours of restaurants were allowed until 8 p.m. instead of 6 p.m., how many businesses would be saved and the livelihoods of the entrepreneur and his employees saved? Secondly, the Constitutional Committee has required that the restrictions be proportionate and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, are you at last prepared to impose restrictions on each municipality so that restaurants are not closed in those municipalities where the disease situation does not require it, although on the other side of the province, even hundreds of kilometres away, the situation might be different? I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: How do you intend to compensate restaurant entrepreneurs and their employees for the damage you have caused if you impose long-term restrictions that make profitable business impossible? Are you prepared to pay even fixed costs so that companies will not go bankrupt and jobs will be saved? The amounts you have proposed are not even sufficient to compensate for fixed costs, so now raise the compensation immediately and fully. We are talking about a huge number of companies and workers. And are you finally prepared to allow the sale of alcoholic beverages which they would have the right to give if food were to be eaten there in restaurants — although each of us knows that this so-called take-away sales is like, to put it ugly, slow death for many companies, because the costs remain constant but the customer numbers drop like a cow's tail? Now that I am very excited to ask, I would like to ask you again, ladies and gentlemen, how many infections have come from food restaurants. Could someone tell me in percentages? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u101	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u102	Mr President! These same proposals were discussed earlier in the day, these after-shut restrictions on restaurants and the same amendment in accordance with Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases, which therefore alters the bill that has been adopted in Parliament for about a couple of weeks, which allows restrictions on the premises of sports services companies, for example. At the time, Minister Kiuru said that it was always a question of interpreting the law and that the government's will was always that these business premises could be completely closed down. However, the avi made a different decision and considered that this article only concerned spaces with more than ten persons at a time indoors or more than 50 persons at a time outdoors. However, when you look a little more closely at the draft law, it is quite clear that Article 58g referred to the second paragraph, which explicitly defined these premises as interpreted by the avi. Similarly, the government's proposal, the government's proposal at the time, explicitly stated in the paragraph which considered the limitations of its fundamental rights that this was the purpose of this law, the interpretation of the avi. So it was not a dispute of interpretation, it was a matter of the fact that the government had not been able to make the kind of proposal that it apparently wanted. I think it is very, very bad that the Minister comes here and continues to claim that, as if the regional government agencies had acted in this way, contrary to the powers that the law gives them. The same kind of dispute has now been over border obligations or powers. Well, now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the current Act on communicable diseases would allow the Regional State Administrative Agency to impose such compulsory health checks on more than one person at a time on its territory. However, it has also become clear that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has specifically directed regional government agencies to act differently, i.e. to act as they have done now, on a voluntary basis. Perhaps the lesson that we hope the government is now taking from today's debate is that Finns in general as well as Finnish companies want to act responsibly and want to act in such a way that the corona virus does not spread among us here. However, it is not considered to be very good that the various authorities and ministries are throwing the ball and blaming each other for whose fault it has worked, whose fault it is that the action has not been successful or has gone wrong. I believe that quite a few restaurant entrepreneurs understand that restaurants are now closed, and many gym operators understand that there are restrictions on activities, but when they have done exactly according to the framework laid down by their legislation and many even more rigorously, it is difficult to understand why the very obvious means that many Members have already pointed out in their speeches have not been put in place. [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : I would ask the representative to be re-replaced on ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u105	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u106	Mr President! Indeed, we have two amendments to the Act on communicable diseases in the referral debate, one of which deals with restaurants after this three-week closure and the other with the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, which would allow for the closure of gyms, indoor playgrounds and spas, among other things. These government proposals raise more questions than answers. I said earlier today in the debat that when one of the underprivileged entrepreneurs called that weekend and told about the industry’s feelings, he used the word “slaughter ” — in the restaurant industry,there is a feeling that this is where the actual slaughter is going. In the restaurant industry, operators and entrepreneurs have done exactly what the law has required for a year: first a complete shutdown, then time restrictions, place restrictions, different restrictions on how to sit, how to place customers and the like. And for a year they have done just as this hall and government have required. After a three-week lock, they say you can open the restaurants, but they close at five or six. It's not like it's opening. Mr President! The questions raised by this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases: It is clear that entrepreneurs and operators have wanted to act responsibly. For years, self-monitoring has been a daily activity both in the restaurant industry and in companies that require a high level of hygiene. But you have to ask the government why the government has not put a difference in law according to the types of restaurants. That is what this hall has been hoping for and demanding for for a year. We all know that cafes, lunch restaurants, nightclubs, evening restaurants all have different policies, but why does the government want to restrict the whole restaurant industry and not bring these different types of restaurants into the law so that we can deal with them in the way we should at the moment? And why has the cost of restaurants not been reimbursed? Cost support is aid for that activity and a large proportion of restaurants have been completely excluded from access to cost support. It is precisely as in many other countries that we are going to compensate for the costs to restaurants that come from rentals and so on. And why have the alcohol sales and the VAT rebates or refunds promised by the government not been carried out? And where are the regional proposals required by the Constitutional Committee? These amendments to the Act on communicable diseases give rise to such a levelling-off and the idea that an entrepreneur is not to be trusted. Even in a certain way, it stirs up the frustration that even the citizens are no longer aware of regional restrictions, and we know that we are all tired of this situation, but we now need clear communication, including clear restrictions, and that they do not change over a week or months. Then, Mr President, many of my fellow Members have called for how much of the chain of infection originates from restaurants or indoor playgrounds or from these different sports facilities or gyms, for example. However, we should be able to legislate on the basis of facts and to see that these restrictive measures, which the government is now proposing, are necessary and bring about and anticipate the situation that would be thought to arise. Mr President! At the end of the day: These government proposals are reflected in the fact that there has been no possibility of anticipation and preparedness. It has been called for throughout the year, and we do things on the after-train. It is impossible to fit in with the citizens' sense of justice that borders are leaking while young people are unable to engage in activities or to restrict their livelihoods in many ways. And especially the elderly have had to live well in isolation during the year. We have a number of measures to control people's lives to combat the virus within the borders, but there is still a problem across the borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u107	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u108	Mr President! Just a little bit longer. It is good to remember that handing out such a virus and a global pandemic is not an exact science. If it were, it would probably not be in this situation, and it is probably true that Finland could have done things better at the borders, but there is probably something right: However, the disease situation is better than in almost any other European country, and if it is constantly said that the borders are leaking, then you should go to the borders to look. They're not so much bleeding out there. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude] The same goes for the small number of restaurants, which are not necessarily many per cent, but it is difficult to know whether they are or whether they are or what they are, but I fully agree that the restaurants have been overly accused and hunted. It is an extremely important sector, including an important employment sector, with 77,000 people working there — probably at least 100,000 families overall — with a large number of low-paid women and students. Mr Löfström has already described how this situation is affecting the summer jobs of this summer and so on, so that it is necessary to carefully assess these economic effects and the losses it will entail and to build a package of support that will also be relevant. However, somehow it is wrong to give the impression that the government has not also supported the companies. After all, we were taking some debt last year, so that we have also been supported, but of course we should be better able to target it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u109	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u110	Mr President! Mr Strand is quite right that this is not an exact science, but much is already known about what works and what does not work, and one thing that clearly works is that at the borders we try to speed up the virus as effectively as possible. A good example of this is New Zealand, which has managed to live a reasonably normal life for a long time, and whenever a small group of people comes, there are reasonably strict measures, but on the other hand it has made it possible to live a normal life there. There are other examples. Of course, New Zealand is different from Finland, which is a country in the European Union, and it is also an island country, but it is true that more stringent action at the borders, for example by demanding a negative corona test result, could be taken to prevent the entry of the corona virus into the country and, in addition, these barriers could be taken into account. Other measures have been proposed here, such as the use of masks. It is truly regrettable that the government still does not consider it necessary to be obliged to wear masks. This could be done in a number of ways, either by introducing it into the Act on communicable diseases, for example, in such a way as to enable the owners of the premises or their rulers in their own activities, to use masks in their own premises. The most important thing, however, is that it should be explicitly introduced into the law, since only the legal obligation to use masks will allow these operators to intervene, except by way of comment, if masks are not used. It seems strange that Finland is in this very few group, where it has still not been seen as necessary to oblige the use of masks. Fortunately, despite this, public transport operators such as HSL and VR, for example, have, in their own actions, imposed this mask, although in practice it means that the call is the most serious punishment that can be given. Mr President! Finally, the predictability of legislation. It is precisely because it is not clear exactly what kind of measures are needed at any time, that legislation should be as proactive as possible, i.e. that there should be no legal uncertainty for companies in this situation, that it should be as little as possible. And now, unfortunately, once again, when these are brought into the ordinary legislation, I myself tend to think a little like Mr Löfström, that when you want to completely restrict the activities of a certain industry, the activities of businesses, such as restaurants, it may even be more justified to do so under the Emergency Act than by constantly changing the Act on communicable diseases.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u111	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u112	Madam President! We are discussing proposals for amendments to the Act on communicable diseases, which are intended to control the functioning of the catering shops and some farms after the current shutdown state. The purpose of the government is to impose stricter restrictions on the opening hours, drinks and number of places for restaurants and others. The government proposes that, under certain conditions, the number of seats can be reduced to up to a third of the normal number and that the time allowed should be fixed by 5 p.m. so that restaurants would have to close their doors at 6 p.m. Furthermore, the draft amendments propose the possibility of closure of sports facilities and other facilities under certain conditions. Even in view of the current difficult epidemic situation, these presentations of feeding shops, gymnasiums and others seem to be disproportionate. Limiting the functioning of restaurants in this way will mean that thousands of workers will remain laid off and that there is no real point in keeping restaurants open. This causes serious harm and distress to some 70,000 entrepreneurs and employees in the industry and their families. The proposal makes the bad situation of companies in the sector even worse. A lot of talk about take-out sales is not going to save anyone in this situation. In fact, therefore, the interruption of feeding movements could continue even after the lock. After a year of pandemic, entrepreneurs will not be able to cope with it, and at this rate the economy of the country, after a pandemic, will not easily rise if the builders, or entrepreneurs, have fallen under their burden. Mr President! Unfortunately, it seems that this government can very well deny it, but it cannot allow it. The government seems to be approaching all things through bans and restrictions, even if there are other options. Why not allow the sale of alcohol from restaurants? Why not drop VAT on the issue? By allowing and allowing the government to try to open up the outlook for the future for entrepreneurs and workers now in a dismal situation. Could the government look for ways in which companies could operate despite the challenges of difficult times? The Coalition Party and many others have made these proposals. The need for subsidies and compensation could then be reduced. Mr President! The government must take action that creates hope and prospects for a better future. No such action has been seen. They shine with their absence, since it is easier to ban and pay subsidies with debt money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u113	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Is there a way out of this corona pandemic? When you look at this government action, you get a little bit of a feeling that this is an attempt to deceive yourself. One speech after another is about how we have managed so well compared to the other countries, but it is not a strategy and it is no way out of the corona. A year ago, we, the True Finns, were suggested to follow such a repressive strategy that the country would be closed for a few weeks, after which even those with corona would be able to get rid of it. Then it would no longer exist, and then the borders would be closed and the earth would remain open. Unfortunately, the government did not agree to this; instead, it took the path of letting the disease spread a little bit and then, when it spreads too much, then chastising entrepreneurs, catching up, putting these restrictions on opening hours, taking them up and down, and again we are in the same situation. A while ago, the restaurants were able to be more open, and now they are going to be closed again. We have to do this so long that there is actually the courage in Finland to choose a path that we can get out of this corona pandemic. For example, although New Zealand just happened to follow this strategy that we presented a year ago. There the corona was suppressed, and since then it has not been possible to get into the country just like that, it is being quarantined in a hotel for two weeks, and after that it is only going to be there, but that means that all the services can be kept open in that country, and it has now even started to organise mass events, which I think sounds really strange to us in the Finnish context. And immediately, if any corona cases are detected there, as happened in Auckland, that area will be closed immediately, but even in spite of these arrests, when the rest of the country is able to stay open and then it will return to normal, the country will win each time. It is great that the government is trying in some way to address the fact that this disease situation does not get so bad that we have intensive care facilities that will be filled, as is the case in Brazil where people are waiting in queues and dying in queues when they wish that there are plenty of intensive care facilities for them. It is great that the government is trying, as it were, to soften the fact that this situation is not going to happen, but this is no solution to the real problem. I hope that in this Parliament we can start to talk about how we can solve this corona pandemic together. Would it be now, after a year, finally time to make these tougher decisions and with a one-time rush to kill this corona to this point, then stick them to the limit? And as long as this corona is on fire in the world, so long as we are pursuing this policy, and only after other countries have made similar decisions can we return to normal. Such a solution, Madam President, would naturally be to vaccinate certain sectors — airlines, tourism and so on — but it is up to us, as representatives of this society, to think of the country's overall interest. If not this solution, then what? I hope that the government parties will also be able to put forward their own options. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u115	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. If I understand correctly, Mr Kiuru has already presented this, so let us go straight to the list of speakers. Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u116	Madam President! Good Minister! In the previous speech, I have already touched on this whole, but in that fast-track debate I did not get the floor, and that is why I am also taking this second floor. As far as the Socialist Group is concerned, it has been suggested in this debate that we are doing this together. Of course, we are doing this together and this virus is common and this scourge is common, but we do not agree with you at the moment, demars, on these measures. And yes, as a Member of Parliament, I feel a little spanked when the Minister's speech was heard. Quite a confession to the Finnish Parliament, the Finnish Parliament, which, however, has to act in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and ensure that these proposals comply with the Constitution. As it turned out, last autumn those proposals were so classless that they were not acceptable to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u122	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u123	Madam President! Of course, it is important to take action here to ensure that restrictions are made if they are necessary and if the disease situation really requires it, but, of course, attention is drawn to the criteria used in drafting legislation and, for example, the role played by nutritionists in the spread of this virus. So what is a restaurant, which is a lunch place, which is a pub, which is a nightclub — these arguments are, of course, needed. Similarly, in the case of gyms, for example, there is no such point directly in this government proposal, because we should also know what the role of these gyms is. And at least what I have heard now and have received feedback, these restrictions, which have now been made for ten people, have worked very well. There have been no contacts, and then people have walked there one by one. That means careful consideration. But again, Minister, I would like to ask: what is the situation and your assessment if these are to be introduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u124	Reply, Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u125	Madam President! I will read a brief quote: ‘Actually,I would like to thank Minister KristaKiuruasis that she has acted with great interest to fight against the virus and that she I saw the Veteran MP Ben Zyskowicz 23. On February, in his excellent speech, he reached the very heart of the matter. When the borders were closed last spring, the Border Guard received the blame of the Parliamentary Assistant Ombudsman. Last August, when Minister Kiuru strongly raised the issue of coercive quarantines and forced tests, he was highly reprimanded. In October, when a proposal was brought to Parliament with these tests, shortcomings were found. Well, I'm sure there were flaws, but you can mock the flaws that seem to continue here. There was no real desire to correct, but it was this mockery. Now, finally, with this government proposal, this Article 16 to make it clear and to give a statement on it, now this
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u126	And the V button is in use, so let's use a little debat at this point. — The reply, Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u127	Madam President! One must wonder how this transmutation virus has somehow changed the law so that we can do this. I must say that if Mr Lindén is trying to accuse Parliament, especially the opposition, of not getting things properly prepared, then perhaps we should move on to the Lindén opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u128	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u129	Mr President! I would like to tell Minister Kiuru that we in the assembly well understand this difficult epidemic situation, and that is why we have had to be constantly amazed at how things have not been corrected during this year. There has already been talk of a frontier here and it is still not being brought to Parliament — a border law that allows for preliminary testing. Now the transmutation virus is here, and now it is among Finns, and now the fundamental rights of Finns are being restricted. I would like to point out here that Article 58g, which is being discussed, also restricts the interests of children and young people. It limits the possibility of legal rehabilitation for disabled persons or other persons in need of rehabilitation. When these closures can be two weeks at a time and when we look at this situation, they can be for months.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u130	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u131	Mr President! I am not going to repeat what I said earlier that there is now a need for adults to bear a larger proportion of these restrictions. As little restrictions as possible for children and young people, a little tighter so that they are shorter and that we can get rid of children and young people and the disease situation. As far as borders are concerned, I was watching the follow-up to the THL hybrid strategy, and at the moment, according to the latest estimate, about one and a half percent of infections cross the border. Could we have done something about these borders before? After all, it has now become apparent that the Avits have really changed the interpretation that it would have been possible in principle to impose these mass quarantines in the past, but when it was presented — indeed, in August, the Minister made quite a number of criticisms. I would like to quote one: ‘However, an example of this is
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u132	Congressman Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u133	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u134	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u138	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u140	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u142	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u144	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u146	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u148	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u150	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u152	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u154	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u156	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u165	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u167	Congressman Ari Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u178	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u180	Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u182	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u184	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u186	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u276	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 2/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Representative Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u475	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-16-ps-23.u490	Madam President! Very briefly, although this is an important piece of legislation. It is a question of the fact that investments in agriculture and forestry have not been allowed to continue because of the fact that large investments, even if there is a mandate in the Makera Fund, have gone over the roof of state guarantees. Although the State itself has never suffered any credit losses and has been able to repay them, this limit had to be raised so that the State guarantees could then continue to be granted. Banks do not finance major projects today, because the collateral values in rural areas are quite insignificant, and the state guarantee system will then ensure that the banks dare to go for this funding. So it was important to raise that limit on state guarantees. This report is also unanimous and I thank the committee and the committee for its advice on good work.
