ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u1	The third item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of the Arctic Strategy. Following the speech by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, I will give answers in the order I have considered. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. A maximum of 1.5 hours will be set aside for the proceedings. — Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u2	Mr President! Finland is an Arctic country. Finland’s Arctic interests and expertise therefore affect the whole country. Finland’s Arctic expertise is also a central part of Finland’s Arctic profile. As an Arctic country, we are also responsible for the survival of the region for future generations. All activities must be based on the carrying capacity of nature, the protection of the climate and the principles of sustainable development, and respect for the rights of indigenous peoples. The development of an Arctic policy strategy is a central part of Finland’s Arctic policy. The strategy has been drawn up in accordance with the Government Programme and covers approximately two parliamentary terms. Its objectives will extend until 2030. The strategy was adopted on 17.6. a decision in principle at the Council of State's session. Mr President! The previous Arctic strategy for Finland dates back to 2013. The strategy has been updated in 2016. Since the publication of the previous strategy, climate change has progressed globally and in the Arctic much faster than expected. Significant changes have also taken place in the international context. In addition, the direct and indirect effects of corona pandemic are reflected in Arctic cooperation and the region. The need for a new Arctic strategy is obvious. The preparation of the strategy has been directed by the Arctic Policy Strategy Steering Group, which is represented from all ministries. The Prime Minister's Office has the main responsibility for drawing up the strategy. The Arctic Advisory Board, which represents Finland's Arctic expertise in a diverse way, has also contributed to the preparation of the new strategy. Throughout the process, we wanted to consult widely with stakeholders and experts in the preparation of the strategy. Based on the feedback received, the prepared draft strategy was sent to the public consultation in February. During the consultation we received more than 60 opinions, which we took into account in further preparation. The strategy has been published in six languages, now also in all three Sámi languages. Mr President! At the beginning of the strategy, the international environment and security issues in the Arctic region will be presented. The strategy underlines the importance of international cooperation. The Arctic Council and the Arctic States, Finland, including Finland, is at the heart of cooperation. The strategy recognises the growing importance of security policy in the region. The international security situation in Finland and Europe is unstable and difficult to predict. Its changes are directly reflected in the Arctic. The Arctic policy strategy is based on an analysis and situational picture of the operating environment in the Foreign and Security Policy Report. The Arctic Strategy is also based on the fact that security in Northern Europe is increasingly a single entity. Changes in the security situation in Finland's neighbourhood and The North Atlantic is closely linked. Finland aims at a peaceful and constructive Arctic region of cooperation. Finland can contribute to a world where matters are resolved through international cooperation. Finland has raised the idea of a summit where we could also address security issues among the Arctic countries. Mr President! The strategy prioritises four priority areas. The first is climate change, on the one hand, its mitigation, but also its adaptation, on the other. The second priority is residents, the promotion of their well-being and the rights of the indigenous peoples of Sámi. The third focus of the strategy is on Arctic competence, from the point of view of industry and cutting-edge research. The fourth priority of the strategy is infrastructure and logistics. The strategic priorities provide a brief overview of the situation in the priority area, the development sought and the main strategic measures in the priority area. Mr President! The new strategy puts the fight against climate change and adaptation to it at the heart of Finland's Arctic policy. There is good justification for this, because the latest information on climate change in the Arctic region indicates that global warming is even much faster than anticipated. The strategy is based on the promotion and inclusion of the well-being of the inhabitants of the Arctic region. A diversified economic structure and good permanent employment opportunities, as well as equal access to education and training in remote areas, are a prerequisite for the well-being of the inhabitants of the Arctic region. The participation of the indigenous people in Finland’s Arctic cooperation and policy is an important part of the whole. I hope that the Sámi Truth and Reconciliation Commission mentioned in the Government Programme will be able to begin its important work as soon as possible. All economic activities in the Arctic region must take into account biodiversity and carrier capacity, the protection of climate and the environment and the principles of sustainable development. The circular economy and other new principles of economic activity and technological solutions can create entirely new business opportunities. Finland has a wealth of high-quality expertise and actors in Arctic research throughout the country. Research is carried out in several universities and research institutes, as well as in the private sector and also in the third sector. Research plays an important role in supporting high-quality and timely decision-making and policy-making. Research also promotes new innovations in the business sector in different sectors and sectors. In the development of infrastructure, Finland also wants to promote general objectives that focus on climate change mitigation. The guidelines for the infrastructure and logistics priority of the Arctic Policy Strategy are in line with the national transport system plan. It extends until 2032. Mr President! Finland’s new Arctic policy strategy defines the objectives of our Arctic policy until 2030. Now that our goals are clear, it's time for real work. Since this is a Government resolution, ministries have a key role to play in the implementation of the strategy. The Group of Arctic Responsible Officials will be responsible for taking into account the aspects of its own administrative sectors in the implementation of the strategy’s objectives and measures. The Arctic Advisory Board is involved in supporting this work. The commitment of others, such as municipalities and companies, is also needed to achieve these goals. All of us need to make a contribution in order to maintain the Arctic in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u3	Like this. — Now I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and use the V button to ask for the floor. — And Mr Niikko will begin the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is important to have some sort of rules of play in the Arctic region, and it is good that Finland has tried to create such a summit where we would sit down at a common table and start thinking about how we could act in a so-called 'no-man' country. We now know that Russia will increase its military presence there, even by setting up bases there, and at the same time the United States and China want their share of the natural resources that have been found there in considerable quantities. I would have asked, Minister: in what way Finland can help to get some kind of rules on those areas, the exploitation of their natural resources and being in the area even in a long run? Russia, for example, has announced that it does not accept anyone coming to take over any territory there,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u5	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u6	Mr President! The government in this strategy for the Arctic region rightly emphasises sustainable development, the sustainable use of natural resources and, of course, the rights of indigenous peoples, quite rightly. In the Arctic Council, the real issue of tough security is not present, but we know, just as Mr Niikko has said here, that these security issues are becoming increasingly critical. Climate change, which is also a key element: the Arctic region is a very vulnerable permanent ice cover, which is in the Arctic Ocean and has disappeared by 40 per cent since 80 C.E. We will have free shipping in the future, starting in the 1950s, throughout the Arctic. We see a great, great change. It is now a matter of involving the great powers, the United States, Russia, Canada and all the Nordic countries in this work of the Arctic Council, and it is envisaged that a summit will take place. After all, Russia is currently the President there. How does the Finnish Government view the possible organisation of such a summit?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u7	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u8	Mr President! The updated Arctic policy strategy is an important and good document and has been prepared with various background groups, including us Arctic parliamentarians. The main elements of the strategy — climate change mitigation and adaptation, human well-being promotion, knowledge and excellence, infrastructure and logistics — are common widely shared topics. It is important to remember that the impact of climate change in the Arctic regions is at least twice as strong as elsewhere. At the beginning of the reign, our former Prime Minister Paavo Lipponen, the father of Northern Dimension policy, was concerned about whether the Finnish Government was more interested in Africa than in Arctic affairs. Although this seemed to be the case in the early years, the Arctic Policy Strategy now provides good tools to act differently from now on, i.e. to raise Arctic issues strongly to the Finnish agenda also in EU policy. The question is, Prime Minister: How to make a concrete contribution to the implementation of the EU's Arctic policy, and hence:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u9	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u10	Madam President! I thank the Prime Minister for his announcement and say that it is important that Finland participates in this work in the Arctic region. It is undoubtedly the greatest geopolitical scene of our time. There are many interests of the major powers, and Finland must act as a stabilising force in the regions. The Arctic Strategy is a very comprehensive and comprehensive document, but I would have asked the Prime Minister — I have been a little disappointed with the way in which our previous strategies have been monitored — and I ask: What now with this strategy? Is this gonna be a mid-term report? In what way is it specified and taken into account that those measures will be taken there, and how will they also be reported to Parliament in due course?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u11	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u12	Mr President! Indeed, there is international interest and interest in the Arctic region, and it is indeed a good thing that comprehensive rules are drawn up that respect the sensitive nature of the region and the indigenous peoples and human rights. Indeed, the strong focus of the Finnish Government on human rights is also reflected in the Arctic Strategy. The strategy highlights the rights of indigenous peoples and opportunities for participation in Arctic cooperation. Finland also attaches importance to Russia's participation in international environmental cooperation in the Arctic region and, for example, measures to minimise the risks of nuclear waste. Nuclear submarines and nuclear waste that have sunk into the bottom of the Arctic Ocean continue to pose a serious environmental risk in the region, and solutions must be sought together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u13	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u14	Madam President! The Left Alliance believes that climate change should be the most important issue in the Arctic security debate, because it is the Arctic region that is at the heart of the climate crisis. The Arctic security debate has begun to be dominated by high-power tensions, and the fact that climate change is truly the biggest security threat in the Arctic is left behind in the painting of these threats, and we are very busy dealing with it. Of course, the tensions of the great powers are also a genuine threat. The increase in tensions and the increase in conflict potential must also be prevented, but the climate crisis is now acute and solutions are therefore needed immediately. As stated in the strategy,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u15	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u16	Madam President! The race for natural resources, fishing areas and transport routes in the Arctic region is underway. Up to now, the regulation of Arctic marine and seabed resources has been sufficient for the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Fish Stocks Agreement. The Arctic Council, for its part, has focused on environmental and research cooperation. However, alongside these agreements focusing on the introduction of natural resources, the need to develop international security policy management in the region has grown quite clearly. Finland does not have its own regional requirements, including those relating to the exploitation of natural resources, and so our country would certainly be a very neutral player in convening such security policy cooperation and a meeting focused on it. How does the government feel about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u17	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The new Arctic strategy has placed climate change as the top priority. Now it's time to stop living in a delusion about everything, I mean everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u19	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u20	Mr President! The fact that this strategy starts, as in the past, with Finland being an active Arctic player and, in particular, the fact that the fight against climate change is at the heart of this strategy, certainly defends its place for two reasons. Firstly, because the consequences of climate change in the Arctic are reflected twice as much as has been said here, but also because climate and environmental issues provide a platform and also an opportunity for dialogue between the major powers. Now that we have seen positive developments in recent years — the return of the United States to climate work — there is now a better prospect here, and that is why, Mr President, everything supported the government in organising the Arctic Summit. It's a good idea to ask for a big salmon. Now, if ever, is the right time for the fight against climate change to be at the heart of this strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u21	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u22	Madam President! When the President of the EU Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, talks about how European industry should be developed in the future so that Europe is part of the solution to the great challenges facing humanity, he asks us to look north, but he mentions Sweden as an example. This is, of course, embarrassing for Finland, because we are the whole of Finland an Arctic country and we would have exactly the same opportunities as Sweden. In this respect, I would like to ask the Government that, when, for example, the strategy rightly mentions that we need to develop, for example, the pan-European transport core network, the so-called TEN-T network, at the same time as the Finnish Fairway Agency is sending a state-wide investment programme for the coming years, all the investments in this network which will enable Northern Finland to develop in the same way as the centre of this major industrial transformation in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u23	Congressman Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u24	Madam President! Our Arctic position here in the north-east of Fennoscandia is extremely important. It will enable us to act as a partner between East and West, a strong partner for the European Union, for example, with Russia. The fact that climate change is crushing the world must not be a sacrifice; we must take the facts as facts. We produce its one per mill of emissions into the world's atmosphere, and we should be able to calculate that our soils, forests, fields, bogs, all bind carbon dioxide — that is, we are carbon neutral in real life, but this whole world's counting bans have made Finland a paying man. I've never accepted it, and I'm never going to accept it. We need to get to the truth that Finnish taxpayers are not being pulled out of the nose in this matter. You have to be honest when you're doing politics. The position of Finland here in Fennoscandia is very good for us. We have every opportunity to create growth in this country and to do good work internationally too, but by sacrificing ourselves in this situation we would go into a difficult situation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u27	Representative Soinikoski
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u28	Mr President! The future of the Arctic region is determined by how well we can reduce our emissions. In this work, the reduction of transport emissions and the transition to non-fossil transport play an important role. Digitalisation and electrification of transport are examples of climate action with enormous potential in the Arctic. Digitalisation enables easier integration and more efficient use of different means of transport as well as independent work. The electrification of transport must be promoted in both car and rail transport. This includes cross-border connections in the northern parts of Finland, Norway and Sweden. Laurila-Tornio-Haaparanta electrification project would support the internationalisation, ecology and industrial competitiveness of Finnish rail transport. Mitigation of climate change does not mean poverty, but new opportunities, jobs and a nature-friendly way of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u29	At this point, the Minister's speech. — Minister Tuppurainen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u30	Madam President! The importance of the Arctic Policy Strategy is very great for Finland, and it is great that now we can update our key objectives in the Arctic region, with so much international interest, more than for a long time. Firstly, I think it is important that this strategy defines the need for a long-term and long-term Arctic policy. Now, with these guidelines, we can, as it were, receive support for a coherent Arctic policy that goes beyond the parliamentary term, at the heart of which is the fight against climate change, knowledge, infrastructure and respect for the rights of indigenous peoples. This is case number one. Another key observation is that solutions cannot be achieved alone, but this must be done together, and here the Arctic Council, the Barents Euro-Arctic Council, the EU and its soon-to-be Arctic strategy are at the very heart of this, and we as Finland have a lot to offer and know-how for this Arctic policy. I am now simply raising the significant work of my own home town, Oulu, and its university in this area, for example. We are now expected to play a leading role in Arctic policy in the Union. These expectations must be redeemed, and this is where the Arctic Summit would be the place to take it. China and Asia must also be involved in Arctic cooperation. We need to take care of the delicate balance of this area together. A common vision is also needed for the use of sensitive natural resources in this region: Arctic resources; oil, gas and minerals. With climate change, future changes need to be jointly regulated and addressed. The security aspects of the Arctic region are very much on the agenda, and it is clear that the stability of the region and keeping it out of tension are a common interest for all of us. In this context, it should be noted that Russia has been a constructive partner, both in the Arctic Council and in the Barents Euro-Arctic Council, and is active in:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u31	And at this point, I will make two more ministerial speeches, and then we will continue with the speeches of the representatives. — Minister Skinner, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u32	Mr President! The Arctic region is the territory of the people. The Arctic region is made for living and for us Finns. It is our home and our front yard in many ways. Of course, the international situation must be taken into account, and it must be borne in mind that international rules and international law must be respected, as in other parts of the world. Overall, Finland has been very active in the Arctic regions and in all meetings with the major powers as well as with other countries. Finnish Arctic expertise is appreciated, asked and desired. We have special expertise in climate solutions, forest issues, digitalisation, and I believe that we can build it far forward together. Mr Kärnä asked about the monitoring and reporting of Arctic work, and I can say from the Finnish perspective and why not also from the perspective of Finnish companies that our systems work. We're just a small country. We need to find our own heads, the narratives we are going to be successful with, and I think they are exactly what I have just mentioned. As far as content is concerned, one of the top points that the government is being asked about around the world by the major powers is the government's climate maps, the sectoral climate maps, which are equal to climate solutions, because they can strategically lead the climate goals of countries other than Finland, and I believe that this is the content of this summit, mentioned by Minister Tuppurainen, both at home and internationally. Finland will also play an active role in the forthcoming Euro-Arctic Council and in the Northern Dimension.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u33	Secretary Kaikkonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u34	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister's Office for the good coordination of strategy work and the coordination of all views into a new Arctic policy strategy. I welcome the security and defence policy formulations of the strategy. The Defence Administration considers it very important that the strategy provides a clear and timely analysis of the security policy situation in the Arctic region, which is in line with the Foreign and Security Policy Report and the defence policy report's records on the operating environment. The inclusion of this so-called "hard security" is also central to Finland's credibility and to the work we are doing, both nationally and in the field of defence cooperation. Other Nordic countries have also, in their own Arctic strategies, published from 2020 to 2021, described both the change in the security environment and its reflection on defence policy. As such, in this strategy, defence policy plays a very small role, not as a priority but as an introduction to the strategy. We will have a defence report in this Chamber tomorrow, and it will then have the opportunity to go even deeper on these very issues. The Arctic region has traditionally been an area of peaceful and constructive cooperation and should remain so in the future. Increased tensions and increased potential for conflict must be avoided. Climate change is important but not the only factor affecting security and geopolitical location in the region. The interests of the major powers as well as international political and military tensions from a geographical point of view are also reflected in the Arctic. It can be said that military activity and interests in the region have grown and the global confrontation of the great powers is also reflected in the Arctic, whether we like it or not. The security situation in the region is closely linked to the security of the rest of Northern Europe and also to the stability of Finland's neighbouring regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u35	And let us go back to the speeches of the representatives. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u36	Thank you, Madam President. One of the greatest threats facing the Arctic region in the future relates to what Russia is currently doing in the Arctic Ocean. Russia engages in drilling in areas where it has not itself been able to show solutions in the event of a larger accident. And if the equipment on the ground blows up, then we will have an environmental disaster that will seek its equal. Although we currently have a red government screaming in Finland, I would like to be confident that at these various top-level conferences you will take a very firm stance on Russia and raise these security issues to the level they require.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u37	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u38	Madam President! The indigenous peoples are the first to feel the effects of climate change. It is therefore essential that traditional knowledge of Sámi be integrated into the development of the Arctic and into climate work, as proposed by the Sámi Parliament. This objective will be promoted, inter alia, by the establishment of the Sámi Climate Council. Putting climate action and the economy against each other is a long time ago. Without a healthy environment, the economy cannot flourish. On the other hand, climate change response and sustainable development solutions also offer new opportunities for business. The Arctic region must therefore be developed on the terms of its inhabitants, particularly in view of the rights of indigenous peoples. The continuation of traditional local livelihoods, such as reindeer husbandry, must be ensured. It is important not only to ensure the continuity of culture, but also to ensure Arctic food security and economic structure.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u39	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u40	Madam President! The Left Alliance thanks the indigenous people for taking the rights of the Sami people into account as an integral part of the Arctic policy strategy. Respect for the rights of indigenous peoples is a human rights issue and a duty of the state. For the Left Alliance it is important to strengthen the sovereignty of indigenous peoples, the right to their own language and culture, and the influence on issues such as land use. In addition to promoting the linguistic and cultural rights and empowerment of the indigenous people, the rights of the indigenous people must be taken into account in all activities in the Arctic. The rights of the indigenous people are also inextricably linked to successful climate and environmental protection. Well, in addition to the measures mentioned in the strategy, the ratification of the ILO 169 Convention on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples remains an important and timely objective, which should be promoted in accordance with the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u41	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u42	Mr President! From the point of view of business development, the Arctic region offers many opportunities for Finland and other countries, certainly under certain conditions. Sometimes, however, I feel that in the northern parts of Finland in particular, all things are prohibited if something is not allowed separately. Here sometimes comes the impression that in a certain way there is even a little building, i.e. within Finland, such outdoor museums. This is a bit of an understatement now, but there is also this risk. I'd like to ask you: Now that this strategy is being pursued, does this Arctic strategy provide sufficient coordinates for responsible exploitation of natural resources? This applies in particular to Finland, which is an important part of this whole, and other countries may then be on their own. Does Finland have a clear industrial policy perspective in this strategy?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u43	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u44	Madam President! I would like to thank you for this Arctic strategy, which, in a very diverse way, takes account of the potential of the North, and I think it is very important that we see these opportunities in particular, rather than looking at the future of our northern dimension through different threats. One of the priorities here is, quite rightly and importantly, infrastructure and logistics, which are linked to our main transport routes, such as roads, railways, waterways and air transport, but also to telecommunications, which is becoming increasingly important. The strategy also takes into account the national transport system plan, which emphasises that it is also important, if you think of Finland, in our northern region that all connections are in order. I would like to ask the Minister for European Affairs:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u45	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u46	Madam President! The Arctic Strategy focuses on four areas, of which I raise two important areas, namely Arctic expertise and infrastructure and logistics, which is also what Mr Tuppurainen was talking about. A new ship sails across the Kvarken now, but nevertheless the dream of the bridge from Vaasa to Umeå is also very much alive. The calculation of Finnish researchers, which became public last summer, attracted attention, and a French, British and Israeli company approached the Kvarken Council. Companies have made their own calculations on how to build and finance the bridge. It is good to remember that there are quite large battery clusters in progress, both in Finland and Sweden, and a direct bridge connection would contribute not only to the competitiveness of business but also to reducing emissions as transport connections improve. A fixed connection, i.e. a bridge, could be a climate road instead of a climate map.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u47	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u48	Mr President! In climate policy, that border opens up as a very big railon just looking towards the east, and getting Russia involved in the protection of Arctic areas seems to be evoking this kind of powerlessness that does not trigger impressive activity. We have had small-scale companies through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and through the Nordic Investment Bank. A policy of sanctions has been a barrier to their extensification. Then, on the other hand, it has not been possible to make large-scale solutions, for example, by linking Russian imports of gas and oil to the protection of permafrost in the Arctic and other such emission reductions, the problem of black coal and so on. Is there anything now visible for these two routes:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u49	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u50	Thank you, honourable Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank the government for the hope that this Sámi Commission of Truth and Reconciliation will start very soon, and I also hope that these Northern and Lapland fairway projects will continue to progress. Then I would also like to highlight the positive aspects of climate change, if that can be the case. In a few years, in a decade, Finland has become the leading producer of rubber, and around a quarter of the world’s rubber crop is cultivated in Finland. This is because of the northern location of our country. The long and bright growing season produces so much oil as rubber that it is good quality here and produces: it is apparently one of the most profitable crops in Finland at the moment. And finally, I would like to point out that there may also be plant oils of the same type in these swamps, where the pharmaceutical industry or some other cosmetics industry can be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u51	At this point, I will give two ministerial speeches. First Minister Mikkonen, 2 minutes, followed by Minister Harakka, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u52	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on this Arctic strategy, and these Agenda 2030 objectives, which underpin this whole strategy, and also this principle of do no significant harm, which has been widely introduced in the European Union, are comprehensive principles in the preparation of this strategy, and that is how it should be. As has emerged from this debate, climate change is moving at the greatest speed in the north, and it is already visible in our Arctic regions. It is reflected in nature, in biodiversity — we have many northern species that are disappearing — on the other hand, it is also reflected in people's everyday lives and opportunities for livelihoods, such as reindeer husbandry. The strategy has rightly highlighted climate change mitigation and its importance, but more and more we must also take adaptation measures so that we can adapt to the changing climate, and it is also important to have an adequate knowledge base and also to make use of traditional knowledge. The Sámi Climate Council, which has been highlighted in the strategy: we are taking this climate law into account so that we can make better use of the information and also of the vision, the knowledge that the northern region has in relation to climate change, its mitigation and adaptation. We have good international cooperation, both within the framework of the Arctic Council and within the framework of the Barents Euro-Arctic Council, and it is there that together we are looking for solutions for both mitigation and adaptation of climate change. It is important to note that this strategy has highlighted the fact that we do not see support for the opening up of new fossil reserves in Arctic conditions. It is in complete contradiction with the Paris Agreement. We should get rid of fossils and not look for more.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u53	Secretary Harakka, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u54	Mr President! I thank Parliament for a good debate. After all, the Arctic strategy has been prepared side by side with the National Transport System Plan adopted in spring, Transport 12, as the Prime Minister has already said. In order to fully exploit the Arctic potential, we need to develop this transport system in a long-term way so as to improve the links between northern and central Europe. This, in turn, requires that the resources set out in the plan and their need for increase be taken into account in the budgetary plan and in the state budget proposals, and this is what Parliament stressed in its statement on the plan. A more detailed investment plan currently being drawn up, the draft of which has been the last day of today's opinion, is based on the most critical identified needs and problems of Transport 12. Transport 12 supports strategic measures in infrastructure and logistics and stresses the interconnectivity of transport networks in the Arctic as well as the importance of sustainable rail transport. This therefore refers to the new Connecting Europe Regulation, which will allow CEF support for projects in the North Sea-Baltic Core Network Corridor, when the extension of the corridor to the north came into force in the summer. A few questions were asked about this. The strategy emphasises the rights and role of residents throughout the region, as well as the indigenous population, so it is also important for the development of transport connections. And so this long and sometimes heated debate about the Arctic line can be forgotten in this old form. The extension of the core network corridor will enable the development of rail connections between Finland and Sweden, as the project for electrification of the Laurila-Tornio-Haaparanta interconnector continues until the CEF search. This supports the internationalisation, cost-effectiveness and industrial competitiveness of Finnish rail transport, which connects Northern Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u55	And this is where the Minister Lintilä will be taken, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u56	Madam President! The question was whether there was a specific industrial policy line with regard to the Arctic region. Of course, we have what the Arctic region in particular brings, which means... [The PresidentAnuVehvillainen : I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm on a microphone head when the clocks don't go off. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u61	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u62	Mr President! Maritime transport continues to grow in the Arctic Ocean, and new opening sea routes will attract economic interest and competition, although the reason for the opening up of sea routes is unfortunate: climate change, as has been said on several occasions here. Finland must be vigilant in this regard. In Arctic marine industry solutions, Finns have a long tradition. Finland is already at the forefront of Arctic maritime technology. Our maritime cluster has expertise in ships and structures designed for Arctic conditions as well as low-emission or zero-emission fuels such as offshore wind. In order to achieve the objectives of this strategy for maritime transport, Finland must actively contribute to the development of international environmental regulation for maritime transport. In line with the strategy, the renewal of icebreaker equipment and the strengthening of cooperation with neighbouring countries in winter shipping must be carried out. Again, I ask Minister Lintilä: what is the government doing to promote the Finnish maritime cluster in the Arctic dimension?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u63	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u64	Madam President! It is important that the Arctic strategy takes environmental protection and the climate crisis seriously. Clean fresh water is one precious resource we have. The use of non-renewable resources should be reduced, and these good records will only become true through legislation. Interest and concern are directed at the use of natural resources and also at our own policy. Recently, a large reserve was made for Lake Inari for the mining area, which is aimed at prospecting ore at this stage, but our draft mining law does not meet the objectives of the Government Programme. How, Prime Minister, are you going to ensure that the rights of people and the environment are genuinely better realised?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u65	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u66	Madam President! Economic activity and sustainable development are definitely compatible. The basic starting point for Arctic policy is a genuine population living in the region. The northern life form should be respected. The traditional industries in the northern regions have been essentially reindeer husbandry, agriculture and fisheries. These still play a major role, especially for the population living outside urban areas. The operating conditions of the forest industry, tourism and Arctic maritime know-how must also be safeguarded. The northern road network, air transport and telecommunications networks must be in order to support the development of the region's livelihoods and the smooth movement of people in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u67	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u68	Mr President! While foreign and security policy issues related to Arctic energy resources are a source of conflict between states, it is important to maintain the Arctic as an area of peace and stability. At the heart of Arctic cooperation is the maintenance of constructive communication, the safeguarding of human life and the protection of the environment. The role of the Arctic Council as a forum for cooperation between the region should be strengthened. The climate and environmental issues of the Arctic Council are those that enable dialogue and cooperation between the major powers. Finland may be making this interaction possible and thus be larger in size. President! About three years ago, the first Arctic Resilience Forum was held in Rovaniemi. This forum was able to reflect on strengthening climate resilience, and all Arctic countries and indigenous peoples, scientific working groups and the entire Arctic community are considering best practices to improve anticipation. This kind of encounter and work is important, and it is Finland's job to continue to make these discussions and encounters possible, for example, in the form of a summit.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u69	Congressman Kemp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u70	Your Honour, Madam Speaker! All activities in the Arctic region must be based on the carrying capacity of nature and on the principles of sustainability, just as we have heard today. However, the objectives of Finland’s economic interests can also be considered from these points of view. Google invests billions in Finland recently. The Arctic climate is an advantage for us, which is why the data centre and much more have been worth bringing to Finland. Or there's a huge ocean of ice that controls us more than it ever thought we'd do. Climate change will gradually increase the logistical significance of the Arctic. As the ice cover decreases, the Northern Sea Road opens up a shipping route of up to 8,000 kilometres shorter between Europe and Asia. Prime Minister, what is the level of ambition of the EU with the Arctic? The European Union's Arctic Office should be brought to Finland. Arctic cooperation was born as a Finnish foreign policy initiative in Rovaniemi, and we already have a secretariat for Arctic university cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u71	Like this. — And now, according to my calculations, everyone has been given the floor. - I'm sorry, Al-Taee here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u72	Mr President! I would also like to bring a security policy perspective to this debate. Now that I am following Afghanistan and I see how slowly the EU reacts from a security policy perspective, I would like Finland to use this opportunity now on the EU tables and to launch a debate even more strongly on the common defence of Europe, because I feel that there is a much stronger chance for Finland to be seen on this issue, and I am looking at both the Prime Minister and the European Minister and the Minister for Defence. This is a huge opportunity for us Finns to be visible as the opener of this debate once again and to ensure that Finland is a strong defence policy security factor in its own frame of reference through this Arctic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u73	Thank you. - And now, Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u74	Mr President! I thank the representatives for a very good and important debate. Here the sector ministers well answered many of these questions, which were raised here, for example, in terms of transport, the environment and many other issues, but a few comments on this debate and on a few questions. Firstly, the role of the EU in the Arctic and the future in this respect. Firstly, we do support the strengthening of the Arctic Council and we welcome constructive cooperation with actors outside the region. We have been active in strengthening Arctic policy in the European Union and we have been vigorous during our Presidency, for example, in order to renew the EU's 2016 Arctic policy in response to these new challenges. We welcome the fact that the new EU Arctic Communication will now be published in October. We support the strengthening of the EU's Arctic role and seek to ensure that Arctic issues are taken into account in different policy areas, not only climate but also transport and industrial policies, for example. This requires a better allocation of EU funding to the challenges facing the Arctic region. Last summer, the EU launched a public consultation process on the reform of the strategy, in which a large number of actors also participated here in Finland. Then, in several speeches, the question was asked as to how we view the convening of various summits or other meetings, or whether we would be in some of these convening places. I believe that there is always a need to strengthen cooperation in the Arctic and Arctic cooperation. I do welcome the various openings and presentations, and the debate on this part will certainly continue. Then a specific question was asked about the Mining Act, and this did not appear to be from the ministers, and I would like to comment on this. In this respect, we are working on the reform of the Mining Act. This work is in progress and is in preparation, and then, at the end of the preparatory work, we will bring this whole package to Parliament. Here, of course, the government parties are still working on this whole together, and we are still in the process of preparing for it. — Here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u75	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Audit Committee, the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Minister for Labour, Mr Tuula Haatainen, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. A maximum of two and a half hours shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — The debate, Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u76	Mr President! As the world changes, it is important to strengthen the participation of immigrants living in Finland and to ensure that their skills are made more accessible. In the government, we want to ensure that everyone can join us in building Finland. There is a shortage of employees in the Finnish labour market. As Minister of Labour, I want immigrants who have found their home to show their potential and skills in working life and to play their part as active members of society. As the population ages and the population with an immigrant background grows, it is increasingly important to ensure that everyone's knowledge becomes available. This is how individuals and society win. It is an unfortunate fact that there are still obstacles to the participation and employment of immigrants. Successful integration helps overcome obstacles and opens doors to society and the labour market. The aim of this report is to speed up and improve integration, promote the participation of the immigrant population in working life and in other societies, and prevent social polarisation. This report relates to the report on the effectiveness of the integration of the Committee on Audit and constitutes a comprehensive programme of measures for the reform of integration. The key reforms presented in the report are related to the strengthening of the early stage of integration and to the development of basic services and education systems, thus also better responding to the needs of immigrants and to the consolidation and further strengthening of guidance and advice. Firstly, this report proposes the introduction of an integration programme. This programme would enhance the initial integration phase and strengthen guidance for working life or further training. Of course, faster integration facilitates employment, and at the same time it also opens other doors to Finnish society for immigrants. Of course, reforms and reforms of the employment policy of the current government will also contribute to the employment of immigrants. The target group of the integration programme would be in particular unemployed job seekers and immigrants outside the labour force. This would also improve opportunities for immigrant women caring for children at home to integrate and find employment. The integration of women into society supports the well-being and integration of children and the whole family. The aim of the presentations is to speed up integration at all stages. Parliament has required that integration should be speeded up by reducing the integration period as a rule to one year. [Juha Mäenpää’s interlude] Secondly, the report sets out reforms to the general service and education system. The needs of the immigrant population must also be better taken into account in employment and education policies, in child and family policies, in urban and industrial policies and in the promotion of health and well-being. The inclusive nature of services improves their effectiveness and enables them to be used in a wide range of ways to support integration and employment. Thirdly, the report proposes that guidance and advice be consolidated and strengthened for all who have moved to Finland, regardless of the grounds for immigration, the situation in life or the period of residence in the country. All immigrants to Finland must be provided with information on Finnish society as well as support and advice for working as an active member. The possibilities for studying Finnish or Swedish would also be diversified for those who move on the basis of work or studies. In terms of integration, the immigrant’s own activity is of great importance, but society must offer opportunities to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills. The attitude of society can also facilitate or weaken integration. Promoting good demographic relations is therefore a key element of the promotion of integration and the present report. The responsibilities of promoting integration would be clarified by strengthening the role of the municipality. In addition, the role of organisations would be strengthened in a cross-cutting way as part of the reform of integration services and through increased cooperation between authorities and organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u77	We shall now proceed to the group speeches. — Representative Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u78	Mr President! In January 2019, when the integration of immigrants was a matter of decision in this Chamber, the MPs reached a unanimous position on ten points. The common will mode was to make integration more efficient, faster and more effective. The report of the Audit Committee was preceded by a three-year thorough study and preparatory work, two commissioned studies and 50 expert consultations. The report now provides practical answers to the unanimous positions of Parliament, and at the moment the actions could not be more timely than now as a result of the worsening conflicts in Afghanistan and Europe's neighbouring regions. Mr President, ärade talman! Effective integration is the cornerstone of a well-managed immigration policy. Care must be taken not to create two-storey people on the pretext of uncontrolled immigration and inefficient integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u79	Mr President! Sweeping the problems of immigration under the carpet and the passability of immigrants seems to be a matter of credit to the sitting government. In the report, the failure of integration is blamed on the use of concepts such as ‘integration’and ‘immigrant’ because they are considered to create barriers to discrimination and to the attachment of Finnish society. The failure of integration is also blamed on racism and social structures in the native population. In reality, however, the failure of immigrants to integrate is due to the fact that their own culture is too far removed from the Finnish way of life, and immigrants lack the required characteristics in the Finnish labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u82	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u83	Mr President! Without immigration, Finland’s working-age population would decrease by more than 150,000 people during this decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u86	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u87	Madam President! During the parliamentary election campaign, a young immigrant man came to tell his story and said that he had applied for a job in several different places and that he had a university degree in his own country, but there was no job in Finland. The man wondered what the meaning of his foreign name was, which was the same with his slightly incomplete Finnish language skills. We Finns have themselves been quite hardworking migrants. The movement beyond borders has also been lively. It is estimated that as many as one million Finns moved abroad in the 20th century. Immigration to Finland has been lower. The decline in birth rates is challenging our society. The increase in immigration has made it a little easier to change. However, integration has not been achieved in the best possible way. It is necessary to talk about immigration and integration. The debate must bear in mind that the situation and needs of immigrants are different. Finland has come and will continue to come to Finland for various reasons and different circumstances. Someone has been hired for high-skilled work, one has fled persecution, and the third is moving to the home country of the Finnish spouse. Mr President! Finland is known in the world as a safe country where happy people live. These are assets that many companies benefit from in their search for experts. However, competition for international excellence is fierce. Neither employees nor companies can expect permits for months. The central parliamentary group thanks the government for its budget line to promote work-related immigration. Licensing processes need to be streamlined. This is a clear message from companies, both here in the capital region and in the provinces. In other ways too, it is necessary to facilitate access to employment. The identification of completed qualifications, for example, needs to be improved. There is also a need to increase the additional studies needed to achieve eligibility. This does not mean lowering skills requirements, but better identification and utilisation of skills. The aim must be to involve people of working age who are able to work. This also means that social security must be work-friendly, not discouraging. Mr President! Finland is a top country in education, but we are also known for our difficult student residence permit processes. Every fifth person who comes to study in Finland leaves our country immediately after graduation. Many of the reasons for leaving are the difficulty of finding work corresponding to education. In higher education institutions, consideration should be given to providing Finnish and Swedish language studies as part of the degree, so that poor language skills are not an obstacle to employment. The fate of the young man who came to us during the election campaign is now shared by many. The differences in employment and employment among immigrants are also very significant. The fact is, however, that a degree, knowledge or language skills do not always guarantee finding a job, not even a degree in Finland. Change is also needed in attitudes. Every person living in Finland has the right and also the obligation to give his/her own knowledge and skills for the benefit of society. Increasing anonymous recruitment, for example, will reduce discrimination in research. Mr President! The key to successful integration is that we understand each other. We Finns speak a language that few immigrants can speak when they enter the country. Parents’ language skills play an important role in how parents can support their children in schooling and integration. That is why immigrants who care for their children at home must also be reached. Support their language training and facilitate the transition from home care support to work outside the home where it is timely in the family situation. These objectives are included in the integration report. Home parents themselves must also be involved in designing services for them. In addition to language training and other education, care must be provided for children in order to enable their parents to participate. In addition to home and school, children’s and young people’s participation in society promotes the possibility of hobbies. This is supported by the Finnish model of hobby, which has been taken forward this season. Getting to know other children, getting to know them, getting friends, and having wholesome entertainment are important for each child and young person. Mr President! No man is an island. Successful integration is in everyone's interest. It benefits both those who have moved and those who already live in the country, the whole of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u88	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u89	Mr President! No one in this country should have to experience being an outsider, a foreigner or a non-community. I remember sadly how a young person who moved to Finland in his early childhood asked me about the discrimination and school violence he faced when he told me that why he should not just belong here, finally be part of Finland. That is exactly what we are talking about today in this Chamber about integration. We talk about how and how, as a society, we can ensure that everyone who moves to Finland can experience this country as their home, that everyone gets the best support to find their place in this society, to be a full member of it. Successful integration is important not only in human terms but also in economic and security terms. It is a question of keeping everyone involved by preventing exclusion, by reducing welfare and health inequalities, by ensuring that everyone can find their place on this side of the law and by combating polarisation. Therefore, by ensuring that the major changes in our society, such as responding to the decline in its working-age population, genuinely exploits the full potential, including the skills of people with an immigrant background. When we talk about immigration and when we talk about immigrants, we talk about people: For example, we talk about an expert who brings his expertise to a Finnish company. We are talking about a spouse who moves his loved one to his home country to start a life together here in Finland. We are talking about a child who escapes the war, the saddest without his parents, and we are talking about people who are fleeing genuine persecution to seek refuge in Finland, a chance to live, a home without fear. Good integration requires that we see people individually and distinguish their individual situations and needs. We must finally get rid of the idea that integration would be the same for all — when it is not. For most people, it means learning a language and entering the labour market, but some people may start travelling to the labour market from there through therapy and their own rehabilitation. The success of integration also requires that we are better able to serve people of different backgrounds, both in primary schools and in health services, and that we are able to take immigration into account, for example, in housing policy. The integration action programme currently under discussion will therefore contribute, among other things, to integrating social work and accessibility of health services. Mr President! Finland is committed to safeguarding the rights of each child. The child strategy, which we have built together across party boundaries, now pledges us to ensure that services, forms of support and channels of inclusion are genuinely, equally and non-discriminatoryly accessible for children from immigrant backgrounds. Every child deserves an intact childhood regardless of his or her background. The focus of integration must be on taking a stronger family from the whole country and serving each of them as individuals without forgetting the overall picture, the integration process for a child of primary school age when it appears quite different from that of an adult of working age. I always say that when we take care of adults, we take care of the children. When we invest in the integration of parents, such as language skills, employment, education, the construction of a social safety net, we will always create elements for the growth and development of children. Education is, therefore, one of the key ways in which we can guarantee access to society for those who have moved here. High-quality education and language learning will help us understand our society and culture, thus facilitating communication, creating relationships with local people and opening up doors to working life. Mr President! Although we in Finland have done good integration work, there is still much to improve. It is good that this programme of measures proposes that migrant women should be included as a specific target group, because it is precisely their access to the labour market and training pathways that is very difficult, despite the fact that a large proportion of them are well educated and willing to work. This is where we waste huge potential. I also think it is a good proposal to monitor the gender impact of measures and to develop operating models, for example, to support access to education for parents. And the importance of preventing all forms of discrimination must be understood as a prerequisite for successful integration into a racist society when it is quite difficult to settle down. If just a foreign-sounding last name prevents you from getting a job, then there is no point in complaining about a shortage of labour in this room. It is good that the government is now increasing support for diverse recruitment and preventing discrimination in working life. Finally, I would like to emphasise that by taking care of integration, we will make sure that no mind is broken. Better integration is the basis for better childhood and youth, and the way to better employment and well-being for those who move here than for us, who already live here, everyone comes from a background and culture, regardless of their background and culture, to feel that they are part of Finnish society. That is precisely what this report responds to in a global and human way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u91	Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u92	Madam President! Finland’s direction in promoting integration has been good. However, the lower employment rate of immigrants and, in particular, the lower level of social participation of women, show that there is room for improvement. The Government's report on the need to reform integration provides for measures to promote employment, health and everyday well-being, family integration, inclusion and good demographic relationships. The aim is to take effective integration measures earlier, better and without forgetting anyone. In the Left Alliance, we believe that integration should promote the integration of immigrants into Finnish society as full members. Integration measures must emphasise that the country has moved its own competences and opportunities to operate in society. Let's not make everyone the same. All forms of discrimination and exclusion must be prevented and equality strengthened. People should be supported at all stages of life. It is good to remember that immigrants are in very different and unequal situations. They are incompetent professionals in their own field, those who come to their families without jobs, those who come alone, children, Europeans and those who flee far away from war. In the early stages of entry, learning language and social skills is key. After that, the paths will be more individual in the future, as should be. Mr President! Investing in education increases equality at all levels of society. This training will address the problem of overgenerational incompetence. At the heart of a left-wing education policy is that everyone can study as far as they want, regardless of their background, and everyone has the right to new beginnings.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u95	Representative Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u96	Mr President! The need to belong to something is human: family or group, but also society. Today's debate is of great value: we are also talking about integration in a positive spirit. We want to welcome people here. We want them to enjoy themselves and feel well as part of Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u97	Madam President! With the EU's approval, barbed wire fences are being built on Europe's borders so that people wishing to seek asylum do not cross the border. At the same time, the debate on the challenges of immigration and integration here at home is often marked as reprehensible and proposals to develop the system against the Constitution or international treaties. Digging into the foxholes won't do you any good. We must be able to talk about the problems of immigration and integration openly and humanely, without passion and guilt. On the other hand, if we deal with the phenomenon with silk gloves, we are doing a disservice not only to immigrants but also to society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u98	Mr President, ärade talman! Integration is a two-way process. Society must be open to new entrants and provide immigrants with diverse services that enable smooth integration into Finnish society. At the same time, people who move to Finland can be required to be willing and actively seeking to integrate into society. A successful integration strategy consists of rights and obligations. At the heart of integration is inclusion in society. An integration strategy aimed at integrating immigrants through the first three years of language studies with other immigrants does not work. The key to integration is work. Work provides an opportunity for its author to be a valuable part of society, self-esteem, community, language and culture, and practical learning. Mr President, ärade talman! According to the statistics for 2018, the employment rate of persons born abroad was between 55 and 57 per cent in 2018. It is 18 per cent lower than in Finnish. Something must be done about this. The structures of the welfare state will not be able to cope with this as immigration grows. In addition to work, it must also be possible to study the language and other studies in addition to the work. However, everything must be based on work. It is also part of Finnish society, because without those who are able to work, the welfare society does not work. Integration is not just about providing services and increasing transparency. Instead of self-flashing, we must also understand that there are those who are either unable or unwilling to integrate into Finnish society. It's not always our fault, if that's the case. It is therefore necessary to create obligations for the integration of immigrants. They must be set for both subsidies and residence permits. Everything must be based on the fact that a person who is unable to live by our laws must be able to be removed more easily. Support policy is one way of creating obligations for integration. If you come to work in Finland and your family comes with you, is it not right to be able to support your family on salary? If you are not interested in integration into Finnish society by working or studying, should it not be possible to look at subsidies? Support policy must be fair. It must not paralyse those who have moved here with subsidies; it must encourage integration into work and study. Mr President, ärade talman! More stringent conditions must be laid down for obtaining a residence permit or citizenship. If, after several years of residence, you do not know the language and have not worked, then you should not issue a permanent residence permit, let alone citizenship. The integration programme must be followed and must aim to make a person a part of society. Support and authorisation policies must encourage this. If the objectives set by the programme are not met, then there must also be consequences. Finland is one of the best countries in the world with many indicators. The possibility of living in a Finnish welfare society must be seen as a privilege. So we can demand that those who come here show willingness to integrate and participate in Finnish society. The integration is made possible by high-quality services and an open society, but ultimately it is an individual's desire and ability to integrate. Those who adapt to Finnish culture, society and rules and participate in the work are welcome to build Finland tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u99	Like this. — Before the debate, I will give Mr Haatainen the floor for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u100	Mr President! Thank you for these speeches and for this debate. At the beginning of this procedure, what is this report? In other words, the purpose of this report is to act as a referral debate, as a definition of Parliament's position on how we will prepare legislation in the future, make reforms to the necessary legislation, integration legislation, and also make a more detailed programme of measures. Many key and important issues were raised here, and what always comes up is this obligation. Yes, it is important that those who come here also have obligations, and self-employment in integration is of course important. We all know, the legislators in Parliament know that if you do not follow that integration plan, you can also limit unemployment benefit or reduce income support. So here are the ways. We also know about the employment rate that we have a lower employment rate here in Finland among immigrants than in other Nordic countries. But then, if you compare those born here, the employment rate among those born here is lower in Finland than in other countries. So the overall employment rate is lower for us, and it is, of course, reflected here. Of course, there is often a lack of language skills among those from immigrant backgrounds, as has also been pointed out here. There may also be good skills in certain areas and levels of education, but it does not correspond to the labour market here. Then there is also clear discrimination in recruitment. There was also reference to recruitment procedures that can help immigrants to find work. All these means must now be vigorously taken forward, and experiments have also been carried out: for example, municipalities have experimented with anonymous recruitment, and there are good experiences. In addition, the government's actions in employment policy include the Nordic model of employment services. That is why we now support the activation of job-seeking for people with an immigrant background, because there are also measures to support more in employment services as a whole, but also the expectation that people will actively seek work themselves. I agree with language training. Language training has remained in infancy and is too limited,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u101	Thank you. — Now we are going to the debate and I would ask those representatives who want to take part in the debate to stand up and press the V button. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u102	Mr President! Only a substantial reduction in immigration that causes problems will help the problems of immigration. At the same time, when we talk about integration problems, it is not worth talking about the work-related immigration of top-level people, because these issues have nothing to do with each other. The whole integration thing has to stop. Children's projects, studies, operational programmes — each year this is repeated. They do not alter the fact that certain groups are not integrated in any Western country. Problems arise in schools, streets, social and health care services and many other sectors of society. It is essential to note that in these groups second-generation employment is also lower, that there is an overgeneration dependency on subsidies, that there is a considerable degree of exclusion. In addition to all this, we must understand the alternative cost of money spent on integration. The money really is out of somewhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u103	Mitzvah Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u104	Mr President! Public authorities have a legislative responsibility to organise integration services, but the activities of organisations are also important in this regard, as they are able to provide services on a low threshold and to establish contacts with local communities. In integration, it is essential that immigrants are able to establish effective relations with the local population and not just remain in their own circumstances. The success of integration therefore also requires the willingness and positive attitude of the local population towards immigrants. Much change of attitude is also needed. In integration, it is therefore particularly important for immigrants to enter the community and thus integrate into society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u105	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u106	Mr President! In the summer, when the assembly said that integration must be better achieved and that immigrants must have obligations, not just rights, but also obligations, our policies raised quite a bit. It may be that in some of the choice of words we could have been more specific, but I am really disappointed that when we pointed out that the social security of immigrants, i.e. immigrants who came to Finland mainly through humanitarian protection, could be encouraging in such a way that it would reward language learning, reward employment or, in this case, participation in labour policy measures, this was called down and claimed to be non-constitutional, on very light grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u107	Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u108	Mr President! It should be possible to have a meaningful and factual social debate on the challenges posed by immigration. It is clear that the cultural background and personal history of immigrants greatly influence how easily they integrate into Finnish society. The closer we are to the immigrant's cultural background, the better the ability the visitor has to adapt to Finnish society and be a productive member of it. The fact is that we need immigration, because without it we will not have enough skilled labour in the future. It is therefore absolutely essential to invest in integration in order to minimise the negative aspects of immigration, which can, for example, manifest itself as growing insecurity. We must learn from the mistakes made by others, such as Sweden, and not repeat them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u109	Congressman Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u110	Mr President! Both the Minister's speech and the group speeches of the government parties have been heard here to raise concerns about how we Finns should integrate in our own country. But we are Finns, and if anyone comes here, they must integrate. For example, the fact that immigrant groups are overemphasized in certain statistics, such as Afghans in sexual crimes, is a fact, and the fact that certain attitudes have arisen is due to the fact that there are doubts about such things because statistics do not lie. We are currently in a situation where people who have acquired citizenship are using interpreter services. This is inconceivable. You either have to choose that if you gain citizenship, the interpreter services end there, i.e. you have to know enough of the language, or in another case you have to pay for the interpreter services. But are you prepared, Minister, to begin to harden the requirement of language skills from the centre to the top, that is to say, class C, so that the Finnish citizens really know the Finnish language?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u111	Thank you. — Congressman Sankelo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u112	Mr President! It is quite right that efforts should be made to promote integration and to seek new ways of adapting to Finnish society. However, all a and o are language skills, Finnish or Swedish. To improve these skills, society can offer new ways for both adults and younger people. There is a risk of curling up and incentives are needed for the system. But self-motivating is the most important thing. That's the most important thing. Many things in life depend on yourself, fortunately, also the desire to adapt to a different environment. The benefits of work-related immigration can best be reaped when life in Finland is smoothed out, and making one's own is the key motivation. And it is also worth remembering that this immigration is directed at different destinations in Finland — cities, but also rural areas — and issues related to this integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u113	Congressman Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u114	Mr President! We share the importance of this subject here in the Chamber. The need for labour in the society of the ageing population has also been shared with concern. The lack of language skills is the main obstacle to employment in the opinion of the immigrant himself. In this process of organising language training, we have failed. There have not been enough places and quality has been very fragmented. In addition, we have built intermittent paths to integration. An employed asylum seeker suddenly finds himself in a state of quarantine. The complainants are both a company and an employed person. In addition, we pass, wait, and even our facility come here. For example, accommodation times in reception centres should be limited to a maximum of one year. It's not human to live in institutions for years. This would be a clear place for change. The integration report brings a lot of good presentations and is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u115	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u116	Mr President! A report has been brought to this Chamber on how integration can be promoted. I claim that there will be no change in words, because in reality it is a question in Finland today that immigrants coming here must be expected to have a high motivation to integrate into Finland. It must be understood that it is impossible to get most jobs without sufficient language skills. However, different interpretation services are offered to people who have been in the country for so long that they should pay for their own interpreting services — for a reason that they have not been able or wanted to learn Finnish. Is this the integration thing? Does the government see this as a possibility for Finns to enter the international labour market without sufficient training, skills and language skills required in the country of destination? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u117	Thank you. — Mr Pekonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u118	Mr President! There are now quite a few immigration problems listed in this Chamber, but I personally think that it is precisely by integration and by investing in it that we can prevent the problems and problems that may arise. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u119	Congressman Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u120	Mr President! Here, for example, Mrs Zyskowicz can certainly answer even more precisely, but Mr Pekonen: yes, it is widely understood that the experts consulted by the Constitutional Committee have left the point that social security can be differentiated in terms of integration time, if it can be demonstrated that it can be better integrated into work and into Finnish language teaching. And when the Audit Committee really says that the allowance for integration is an incentive to remain dependent on social security and that the system should not encourage living on subsidies, I would ask the Minister that, when you referred to the fact that, even now, these carens can be used on the aid for integration — as far as reception money is concerned, it is also shown in the report by the Audit Committee — can you tell me how much these carens will be used during the period of integration of the residence permit, because we believe that they are hardly used and that there should be more powerful carrots here? It's the love that we integrate into work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u121	Thank you. — Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u122	Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk here about the importance of language skills, and I think it is important, of course, but why are those who work and are language-speaking not good enough for the assembly? We have a number of young asylum seekers who have been here for years and are happy to stay, and they have been trained — and yet they are not good enough, they cannot be offered a residence permit. At least it hasn't been good enough so far. Even the best expert will not stay in Finland if his wife and child are shouted racistly on the street and stopped on the street or at the border every time he meets the authority. We must therefore also do a great deal with attitudes. We need immigrants much more in the future. We can strive to make integration as easy as possible, and we can learn better to recognise their resources and provide the best education in the world when that is not enough. It is absurd that women who have emigrated
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u124	Thank you. — Representative Laakso, Sheik, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u125	Mr President! Representative Aittakumpu here set an example in the story that a highly educated person applied for a job and then did not get them. To be honest, however, I would say that in higher education jobs, where higher education skills are required, there is probably the least discrimination of any kind in this area. It must be almost an isolated incident in my mind. But if this highly educated fellow has applied for a jumpsuit job, this same phenomenon has been in Finland for twenty years now, that a highly educated person has not been able to work in a cleaning company until he has forgotten his own university degree and failed to report it in a job application. And that is only because people who are generally educated are not necessarily so eager to work for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u126	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u127	Mr President! Excellent group speeches have been made here today, but two cold and hard group speeches, the National Coalition Party and the People's Party, flashed into my eyes and ears. [Right : Ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u132	Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u133	Me, huh? — Thank you, Mr President. I didn't hear Mr. Kiljunen say that statistics are already a lie and a lie, but that's it for populism. Work-related immigration. That is quite different from what we are talking about: integration, human integration. I'm going abroad to work. I don't have social services and language training waiting for me. I'm going to the United States. Let's just say I speak English and I have the skills to do what I'm going to do. This is a completely different matter that we are talking about. We find here that we have failed when man cannot speak the language. Yes, I would think that more responsibility lies with the person himself, that he has failed in not having either wanted or bothered to take courses. It can't be our fault that we've failed. More responsibility to the individual. And I hope that in future we will speak with the standards and words of the ordinary people. I am surprised that the Coalition Party is pretending to be in a critical voice, but can't even use the term proto-Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u134	Congressman Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u135	Mr President! This is mainly about immigrant workers, although there are 10,000 immigrant entrepreneurs in Finland who employ about 30,000 people. The report states that business activity is hampered by the lack of information, shortcomings in Finnish or Swedish skills and the lack of networks. Some immigrants would benefit if integration training and vocational training could be coordinated more flexibly. It is also stated that immigrants must also be taken into account as their own group in the entrepreneurship strategy. I would like to ask the government and the minister concerned what these concrete remedies are to remedy these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u136	Thank you. — Mr Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u137	Mr President! Language skills, among other things, have rightly been mentioned here. And it is indeed the case that the situations of immigrants are very different, and those with higher education also have difficulties in entering employment for a variety of reasons. In fact, today I met someone who moved from the Middle East who has become an entrepreneur here in Finland. I've had several conversations with him. I asked him what he thought about this debate today, and he raised the same issue: language skills. Language skills play a key role in involving a person in society. He also warmly remembered his time in Northern Finland when he had lived in Finland at first, and asked me to send his greetings — and I was able to pass them on to him. Every person living in Finland and Finland has opportunities to participate in integration, for example by contacting and being friendly and helpful to immigrants. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what measures are to be taken to get every immigrant in contact with Finns, not just the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u138	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u139	Mr President! In the summer, the Coalition Party announced its integration programme, and to this end we became familiar with the practices of other EU countries. In Austria, for example, an asylum seeker is entitled to pocket money during the application process but does not have access to the labour market. Social security has been differentiated so that non-refugee immigrants have to wait five years for basic income. In Germany, immigrants are already required to have language skills in advance. In order to obtain a permanent residence permit, you must: reside continuously for five years, have an adequate level of subsistence, paid social security contributions for 60 months, level B1 language skills, knowledge of the legal and social system of the country and adequate housing. In Denmark, normal income support or student financial support is only granted after nine years of living in the country over a 10-year period and working for 2.5 years. Mr President! I'm going to ask the minister what's on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u141	Congressman Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u142	Mr President! Firstly, there must be a distinction between work-related immigration and humanitarian immigration. A work-related immigrant will be able to work here immediately, and it will be much easier for him to integrate. Not everyone wants to integrate, because they are only here for a short time, but they have a much better chance of doing so. On the other hand, with regard to this humanitarian immigration, we are not sufficiently successful in integration. That is an indisputable fact. It requires both support, i.e. language teaching and also incentives, so that there is also an economic motivation to take up work, because it is only through work that you can integrate into the system. If it's not integrated, there'll be other problems. Then I would like to say to Mr Biaudet that, of course, if we have an asylum seeker who has found a job here and is integrated into Finland, he can then apply for a residence permit based on that job and it is probably wise then to admit it often, but it must not be confused with this asylum system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u143	Thank you. — Mr Malm, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u144	Mr President! It is good to continue with this speech by Mr Satose, because the work is precisely the best social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u148	Thank you. — Representative Park, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u149	Mr President! This report deals with these integration paths, their enhancement, acceleration, different service provision. This sounds very similar to the previous integration action plans. What we need to do here is a perfectly realistic assessment of what the expectations of these problematic large-scale immigration groups can be as long as we have such a social security system as we have, where compulsoryness may mean a small degree of care or a small cut, but there is really no need to do anything about it. Furthermore, there are no selection criteria in our system in relation to how the arrivals would adapt to Finland, or the returns do not work in such a way that the unadjusted ones would be returned. Residence permits, citizenship is short. And second of all, what is this time horizon? First generation immigrants have not adapted, second generation newcomers have not adapted,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u150	Thank you. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u151	Mr President! In time, I studied general history and specialized in immigrant history in my thesis. Finland started to work in factories, mines, forest works, maids, rengs, and language skills were usually zero at the time of departure. They learned Finchelska when they had to learn. Of course, we must admit that the times are very different now and the demands of the work are very different. But what can be learned from world history is, at least, that nothing good has ever come of inactive young men in large groups. People need to be integrated into society, they need to feel meaningful, and work is the best way to do it. A very specific question: have we had inactive people in reception centres, for example, been offered opportunities for farms and berry picking, where there has clearly been a shortage of jobs during the summer? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u152	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u153	Mr President! I have talked to several people with a long immigrant background in Finland, and many of them say that integration ended at the time when integration started in Finland, precisely because of these services. This report is once again based on such a sacred trio: Kela, social welfare and organizations. Here will be more services without any responsibility, and this is precisely the mistake we have made in Finland. Furthermore, I think it is very bad that language training is being carried home to housewives, where women who are still in a position to be under control will continue to be kept between fist and stove. In addition, the report blames the poor integration of Finns. I don't understand. Would it not be wise to stop treating immigrants as children and require some sort of responsibility on their part?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u154	Thank you. — I will give three more replies, followed by a ministerial statement, and then on the list of speakers. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u155	Mr President! If a person who comes to Finland may continue to hear that he is unwanted, how can we expect him to become part of Finnish society?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u158	Thank you. — Representative Immonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u159	Mr President! In other Nordic countries, the integration of immigrants has been made more binding. In Denmark, for example, participation in integration programmes is mandatory for all refugees and family members who have come through family reunification. The performance of the programme and the final test contained therein is a condition for obtaining a permanent residence permit. In Denmark, immigrants who rely solely on social benefits for a certain period and who have been in the country for less than five years can be subject to a special Directive on their way home and may be ordered to leave the country. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: why the Finnish Government has not wanted to follow suit Denmark or Norway, for example, with regard to these integration measures? It is quite clear that we need more accountability and sanctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u160	Thank you. — And again, Mr Berg, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u161	Mr President! The fact that it is good to distinguish between work-related immigration and other immigration, and the importance of language skills, was well highlighted in this debate. For this reason, it is very important that the integration programme target groups in the future should be especially unemployed job seekers and immigrants outside the labour force. The aim is for immigrants outside the labour force, including these women who care for their children at home, to be better targeted and to be provided with training that combines language training with child care. The inclusion of women in society supports the well-being and integration of children and the whole family, which is why it is very important that immigrant women are the main target group for promoting integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u162	Thank you. — Minister Haatainen, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u163	Mr President! That's a lot. I may not be able to answer all of them, but there was a call for this demand for language skills and, in many speeches, there was once again a reference to the fact that language skills are all a and o, and that is where the report is missing. If we talk about getting citizenship again, that is to say tightening up language requirements, then it will be decided in the Citizenship Act, and that is not the subject of this report. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u168	Thank you. — Mr Turtiainen, please. Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u169	Mr President! Of course, when we talk about integration, we also talk about the problems that integration is trying to reduce. Well, where do these problems come from? And why do we have to integrate some people? There has already been far too much immigration in this Chamber in connection with integration. It has also been suggested here in relation to immigration that it would be a bad thing if people moved to another country because of a better standard of living. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you about my own experience with immigration. I myself have been a Finnish immigrant in the United States and I know a little about it. Who would want to move to another country to reduce their standard of living? Hardly anyone. Immigration is a good thing, and it must not be confused in any way with trafficking in human beings in developing countries or any other demographic change projects. Legal immigration is good for both of us, as well as for the country to be legally moved to. Legal immigration is not based on creation or the attainment of a free way of life. It is based on work, enterprise, study or love, and it is conditional on getting along on its own. There is no need to integrate such people. The integration we are talking about now smells like trafficking in human beings and a population change project. Every country already has its own underprivileged. So do we in Finland, and it is our duty to help them. It is not our duty to get the problems of developing countries here, and that must never be done. We have already had far too many problems with trafficking in human beings and population change projects here in Finland, and instead of integration, people who do not adapt to our society will have to send back to their countries of origin. Mr President! The day before yesterday, the Department of Justice published a completely frivolous campaign, i.e. I'm an Antiracist. The campaign challenges the construction of a Finland free from racism. So it is a vicious blackmail campaign built with political motives. It is shocking that the word “immigration ”is aconcerned by the same pitfalls in which populationchanges aredistributed, a political weapon of alien and racist Mr President! This report is completely unacceptable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u170	Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u171	Mr President! Integration is usually measured by four indicators: Finnish language skills, networking with Finnish society, independence from social security and employment. Unfortunately, Finland does not get a good rating for its integration measures in any of these indicators, and especially poorly managed employment has been achieved. The unemployment rate for immigrants is more than twice that of the rest of the population. Through asylum seekers and related family reunification, unemployment is high, especially for those from Africa and the Middle East. In fact, statistics show that Finland is the weakest employer in the Nordic countries. Mr President! This integration report is a great disappointment. It's inexplicable and unpunished. It still treats people who come to Finland through humanitarian immigration as objects that are subject to various measures, but not as subjects that are and should be active actors who are encouraged and even a little bit hardened to make a good life for themselves and their families here in their new home country. Mr President! During the beginning of the year, a multi-item integration programme was prepared in the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party on how integration could be better achieved. Prior to the introduction of the integration agendas, we held consultations with the Nordic embassies and became familiar with the practices of Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Canada, as well as with the new British policies. We also heard officials working with immigration and immigrants themselves, such as the Somali community. The consultations showed that almost all European countries, such as Denmark, Germany and Austria, have clearly more strained access to social security than we do to immigrants, some of which have been subject to blackmail in recent months. It was particularly noteworthy that, unlike elsewhere, we are not required to have sufficient language skills, for example, as a basis for a long-term residence permit. A person who has come from another country can live in Finland for all his or her life and do not need to learn Finnish. For years, he can use interpreter services when visiting a dentist or taking care of his official business. Could it not be thought that after five years, for example, we should be able to manage basic services without an interpreter? Mr President! One clear problem with integration is our housing-based social security. It does not encourage people from other parts of the world to become active because full social protection is available too quickly without it. Social security should encourage the reception of work already at the integration stage, as employment is the best way to promote integration. It is therefore justified that in the early stages of immigration a proportion of unemployment benefit, such as 20%, should be linked to the self-employment of the visitor. In this case, the immigrant must study the language and the values and standards of Finnish society and participate in training that promotes employment in order to receive full support. Mr President! I am somewhat disturbed by the fact that the opinion of the Constitutional Committee from 2016 is repeatedly incorrectly repeated here when the Sipilä Government put forward a proposal to differentiate social security. I now call on those interested to read the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 55 pages 4 to read: ‘However, the committee does not consider it credible that by reducing the benefits of immigrants’ basic income,immigrant integration into society is promoted. The Government’s proposal does not properly explain how the reduction of the benefit is intended to contribute to integration.” In other words, there is no justification for not doing so in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but there must be a clear and acceptable justification for this. It is very important that this issue should now be properly examined, that in what way this could be done in the order required by the Constitution. Mr President! There are, at least, some excellent examples of integration, and I would also like to highlight them, for example, Mr Närpiö's model. Närpiö is a small and agricultural-intensive municipality in Swedish-speaking Ostrobothnia, where immigrants are immediately included in the community and the working community for simple tasks such as agriculture, even when they arrive there. Language skills increase by working [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u173	Thank you. — Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u174	Mr President! Finland needs an active immigration policy. The number of births in Finland has decreased for a long time, so our population growth has been based on immigration. Despite this trend, Finland’s immigration policy has been rigidly bureaucratic. It has not taken into account the individual situations or needs of immigrants. This is problematic because immigration to Finland is mainly family-based. This is why we need to place the whole family at the heart of integration and support them as individuals. The success of integration requires our services to be more flexible to meet the needs of people of different backgrounds, both in primary school and in health services. The most important thing is to face a person as a human being in all situations of life. Mr President! The special pain of Finland’s immigration policy has been the integration of women who have moved into society. The employment of immigrant women in particular has been challenging, although it is estimated that a large proportion of women who have moved to Finland have a university degree. Despite this, women's employment has been weaker than men. This is a strongly Finnish phenomenon, as no similar phenomenon has been observed in other Nordic countries. The integration programme aims to address this by making women a specific target group. The gender impact of the various actions will be assessed in the implementation and monitoring of the programme. This will help to address gender-based opportunities for work and training. Improving the labour market position of women is essential in order to respond to the transformation of work and the prevention of social polarisation. Mr President! The world is now undergoing great changes. The situation in Afghanistan, the progress of climate change and the intrusion of nation states are examples of global phenomena that increase immigration. That is why we need to prepare for an increase in immigration and consider ways to achieve high-quality integration. This requires the eradication of racism, investment in education and access to services. This integration action programme will improve training opportunities and increase support for diverse recruitment. In the future, the criterion based on foreign languages, for example, will be taken into account as part of the funding of vocational schools. The work is just beginning, but with this programme we are taking steps towards integration, where the individual and his family are placed at the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u175	Thank you. — Mr Vestman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u176	Mr President! More realism and solutions are needed in the wider integration of immigrants and immigration policy. The current integration policy does not work, as is clear from the report of the Committee on Audit, whose statements are based on the Government report on the promotion of integration which is now under discussion. Integration must be a prerequisite for immigration. Increased immigration combined with failure in integration is a combination that inevitably creates serious social problems. In many Western countries, these problems have culminated in parallel societies in the suburbs, where they have their own rules and where the police have no business either. According to experts, indications of this development are already visible in Finland. The fundamental problem with integration is that immigrants have many rights but few obligations. To this core problem, the Government report does not provide any corrections. In fact, as a starting point for the report, the vague term ‘bi-directional integration’ has already been used. What the hell is that? As far as I can tell, there's no such thing as this. Integration is always a one-way process: it integrates into the surrounding society, not the other way around. Mr President! Indeed, the main indicators for integration are employment, language learning and social security independence. These have not been successful in the field of humanitarian immigration in Finland. For some countries of origin, the employment rate is still a long way from the native population for years after arrival. The statistics are true. They must be accepted and we must be able to talk about them. Immigrants receive unemployment benefit, housing allowance and income support, in particular, more generally than the rest of the population. Of immigrants, 34 per cent received housing allowance, 26 per cent unemployment benefit and 22 per cent income support. Of those born in Finland, 17 per cent received housing allowance, 7 per cent unemployment benefit and 6 per cent income support. As the report shows, the employment rate of people from Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia remains between 20% and 40%. The figures are alarming, especially since the employment rate in these countries of origin does not in most cases increase in the second generation either. The VATTI study has found that if immigrants and their children are employed as poorly as immigrants now on average, the loss to public finances would then be between EUR 150,000 and EUR 200,000 for the entire life of immigrants. In other words, immigration will cost public finances if there is no change. There are significant differences in integration between different countries of origin and different groups of immigrants. As a reference to the previous point, the employment rate of those from the countries of East Asia and the Far East is close to the employment rate of the native population. It is from these countries that work-related immigration is targeted at Finland. Based on the employment comparison made by Statistics Finland by language groups, the employment rate of Filipino and Nepalese people has been at the level of Finnish speakers, even higher. According to the calculation of the labour policy journal, immigration has beneficial effects on the economic dependency ratio if the employment rate of immigrants exceeds 60%. Labour immigration, therefore, works and benefits the national economy if it succeeds. Mr President! This Government report before us highlights some of the problems, but at the same time some are kept quiet. For example, in the case of people with foreign background, crime statistics are ignored in the report. People from certain countries of origin are overrepresented in statistics on sexual offences, for example. The statistics are true. Moreover, the report does not provide practical solutions to the integration policy problems at hand. The Coalition Party has presented concrete, feasible and realistic solutions that would bring the Finnish system to the Danish level, for example. Finland should follow the example of those countries that have made the system more binding in terms of both employment and language learning. Finland must make a permanent residence permit conditional on a job and sufficient language skills and knowledge of Finnish society. Social security must be permanently differentiated in respect of early-stage social security for residents and immigrants in Finland. The right to full social assistance should be granted only on the basis of work or a permanent residence permit. Finland should also find out about the ceiling, which would guarantee that working would always be more profitable than living on subsidies. It should be said that the passive effect of social security also applies to the general population. President! Finally, I would like to highlight:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u177	Thank you. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u178	Mr President! This report is based on a thorough study and preparatory work carried out by the Audit Committee last season. At that time, two commissioned studies were commissioned and dozens of experts were consulted. This report provides the comprehensive programme of measures required by Parliament to reform integration measures and the necessary reforms. President! Immigrants are not a coherent group and therefore an integration plan based on individual integration is always key. The starting point for this and other reforms presented in the report is to improve integration in a way that enables immigrants to take account of their different needs and develop their skills to match the knowledge and skills needed in society. And as has been mentioned in several speeches, so not all immigrants need any integration services at all, it is good to remember that too. President! But if you talk about people who need integration services, a successful integration policy will improve the economic well-being of both them and Finns. Good integration will raise immigrants' incomes and reduce their income transfers. This is just information from the investigation. On the other hand, in the current labour shortage, we should recognise that we need the labour input of immigrants. Successful integration will certainly cost itself many times back to society. On the other hand, no one can be forced into integration if a person does not want to become integrated. Immigrants not only have rights, they also have responsibilities. For example, it is his responsibility to follow the integration plan and in particular to learn Finnish or Swedish. Without sufficient language skills, it is difficult to integrate into Finnish society. In this respect, particular attention must be paid to persons outside the labour force and also to women caring for their children at home. They need to be tailored to language training and other training suitable for their life situation, which will help them to enter Finnish society and, in particular, working life. The report presents an integration programme for them to improve the initial integration phase and strengthen guidance for working life and further education. The duration of the integration programme would be individual and, as a rule, not more than two years. Of course, for many immigrants there is a shorter period of time than this, but especially for vulnerable people, the duration may be even longer. Finally, Mr President, on the basis of this programme of measures, it is good to start reforming the Act on Integration. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u179	Thank you. — And Mr Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u180	Mr President! Integration doesn't happen by itself. It requires mental, physical and financial investments, and then there are many variables that affect the outcome successfully or ruin it. In this speech, my perspective focuses only on work-related immigration and students arriving in Finland from abroad. On Monday of this week, representatives of the constituency of Oulu had a six-monthly meeting with the Oulu Chamber of Commerce. The topic of the debate was how we can get experts to Northern Finland. Oulu has experience of experts from abroad who do not like Oulu and do not settle there. There are many reasons. Professional and family experts also hope that their spouse will be employed. They want services in English, but above all they want social life. It can be difficult for a foreigner to become part of different social circles. Finns are generally considered to be abstinence and difficult to approach, on the other hand, we are also richly commended for our faithful friendship after the ice has been broken. A big problem and even a waste of resources seems to be the departure of foreign students from our country after they have completed a Finnish degree. At the meeting of the Oulu Chamber of Commerce we heard that a significant reason for foreign students to come to Finland is free education. If you leave here after that, you may well ask what Finland benefited from this. It is good that the importance of integration is now being systematically invested in. The report on integration includes measures aimed at promoting the integration of professionals and students from a different background into Finnish society. Integration policy and the Talent Boost programme contribute to work and study staying in Finland more permanently by developing integration-friendly services for these groups. The objectives of the Talent Boost programme and measures to promote the integration of people moving from work and studies have been taken into account and supplemented in the preparation of the report. The measures of the programme may be considered to be supported. It is necessary to provide low-threshold guidance and advice points for skilled workers and students. It is also necessary to take into account their potential spouse, as the well-being of the whole family contributes to integration. There is certainly room for improvement in cooperation and information flows between employers and the authorities who work with work-based immigrants and those who come to Finland to study from abroad. The smoothing-up of the work permit procedure is a concrete way of promoting the integration of workers and students with a foreign background. It is also extremely important to promote the Finnish and Swedish skills of immigrants, as learning the language contributes significantly to getting into Finnish society. The awareness of Finland should also be disseminated. It will be possible to avoid worse collisions when it is clear to those who come from different backgrounds and other cultures before coming to Finland why we are doing things in Finland, as we are doing. It is in the interests of Finns that we can promote the integration of foreign experts and students in Finland. It is Finland’s advantage in economic, physical and mental terms. Science, research and innovation need new ideas from the world, for not all wisdom lives in this country. It also makes sense for Finns that once our society's resources have been allocated to students who have come to Finland, they will be left after graduation to use their knowledge and skills in the best interests of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u181	Thank you. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u182	Mr President! Helsingin Sanomat reported recently that only 23 per cent of Iraqis living in Finland work. In the case, a Kurdish Iraqi man had a good attitude. He said he was learning the language to get a job. This is exactly what we want. But this report on integration — or integration, as you call it — is like a service package in order to minimise the need for a foreign culture. This sensitivities only guarantee a standard of living and services so that you do not need to be activated, study the language, adopt new culture customs and laws. Your sensitivities are a key reason for the low employment rate. The world is false examples of failed integration. The Finnish model is already at a very low level in the light of employment figures. Mr President! There is a huge Somali community in Minnesota, which is likely to cause problems in local communities, but the employment rate for the Minnesota Somalis is about 70%. Mr President, Minnesota does not enjoy comprehensive delicacies, does not have extensive social security, does not have continuous interpreting services, and, Mr President, does not have such a delicacies for integration, which integrates the introduction of services as little as possible, but is integrated into the United States to do something for itself. I would ask you to consider why there are such huge differences in employment and in the coverage of services. Could this be due to different integration models? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u183	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u184	Mr President! Needless to say, it is important to invest in the integration of immigrants. I very much welcome the fact that Prime Minister Marin's Government, and Minister Haatainen in particular, have taken a stand on the report of the Audit Committee and on Parliament's strong will for 2018, when we jointly outlined the development of integration in these very ways that we are now doing. The report will bring a lot of new winds to integration and will make it possible to speed up, advance, enhance and significantly improve the effectiveness of the services. In terms of integration, it is important to recognise that immigrants are in very different situations. Their knowledge and skills can be very different. It is therefore particularly important that multi-professional and wide-ranging services are assembled individually so that they can respond to the individual situation as accurately as possible. It is also important that existing service systems take these needs into account. I think that the integration report deserves to be dealt with in a dispassionate way here in Parliament. We must accept that integration costs money. It should also be noted that it is very profitable to invest in it. Saving from integration inevitably leads to problems, and developing integration programmes and investing in services will help to become a constructive member of society and also reduce its dependence on support. The majority of immigrants want to come to Finland to build their own lives by working or trying. Surely each of us knows some of these examples. It is only sensible for society to support this. Problems arise if these opportunities and conditions are not offered. And, of course, we must remember that some of them are getting along quite well on their own, so that we do not need that much support. The role of organisations in the provision of services still needs to be emphasised. Organisations have taken a strong role in providing low-threshold guidance and services. The role of organisations is important because they are able to provide services locally, multilingually and on a low threshold. It would be quite impossible to provide this work directly by the public sector. It cannot therefore be emphasised enough how important it is to safeguard the operating conditions of organisations in this respect too. Mr President! It must also be pointed out that integration is not just a good choice of services provided by society. An absolute prerequisite for successful integration is an immigrant's own commitment
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u185	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u187	Thank you. — Representative Kärnä is absent. — Congressman Sankelo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u188	Mr President! Mr Laakso has just said that sensible integration makes sense. It's easy to agree exactly. Unfortunately, however, the Government's report on the need to reform integration is a long way from concrete action. There are many things that are promised to be developed in the report, but there are not enough concrete proposals for solutions. Finland needs work-related immigration, so the success of integration must be taken seriously. Firstly, it must be recognised that integration has failed. Among other things, there has already been talk of higher unemployment and language skills among people with a foreign background. However, the starting point must always be that the individual has a central responsibility in this work. These are real things and, at worst, crime and insecurity are their mild phenomena. It is honest to say out loud that the problems of immigration are highlighted in certain nationalities. Why is this so, and what can be done about it? For that we need the concrete, sensible solutions. Mr President! The proposals put forward by the Coalition Party some time ago to develop integration were shot down from the government's direction. However, our proposals would stimulate debate among the citizens. Our ideas weren't shot down in the turu and squares. Finns want to develop Finland as a country where a hardworking and open worker is always welcome. We know the word “concession to Finland”. There is a hint of pride in the sentence, and it is a message of the security of our country, but at the same time it obliges us to keep our country in such a way that there is indeed a lottery victory here, or to come to work through immigration. I have said that the better the integration of new Finns into our society, the stronger and safer Finland we have. It is essential that the problems of integration are raised and resolved. Mr President! The Coalition Party has presented many topakka carrots to develop integration — tops especially because each carrot requires action and commitment to integration. The rights and benefits of the country require integration into society and playing on the Finnish team. This must be Finland's integration policy now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u189	Thank you. — And Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u190	Mr President! In connection with this debate, there has been a lot of talk about the proposed immigration of the Coalition Party, and I thought I would open them up for my part. However, I would like to start by saying that I believe that labour immigration and humanitarian immigration are two completely different things and that there is a need for different ways of integration too when we talk about these two groups. In other words, work-related people come directly to work, that is how they are already integrated. Some of them are in the country only for a short time, when they do not even have the need for it to be more deeply integrated or necessarily to learn a language, but the situation is completely different for people who are going to remain permanently in Finland for humanitarian reasons. Mr President! I think it was Mr Kimmo Kiljunen who said here that the message of the Assembly has been very cold in this immigration debate. I wonder where such a conclusion can come from, and I thought I would go over these key proposals and perhaps a few arguments, and also ask what is so wonderful about them that they cannot be accepted more widely, for example by the Social Democrats or by this House, with the exception of perhaps the Finns of Finland. First of all, we are proposing to reduce the asylum search processes to a fraction of what they are now. This should be something that would be in everyone's interest. The longer these processes last, the longer asylum seekers remain inactive in the country and the more difficult this integration becomes. On the other hand, if they have to leave the country, it is wiser to do so quickly than to do so after months or years if you still have to leave. Secondly, we propose that the support for voluntary return should be more diverse and more attractive. Who's against this? Is it not self-evident that if you have not received asylum, then you must leave the country, and the sooner this can be arranged and voluntary return should be the best solution for everyone? And like the representative Unfortunately, in other Nordic countries, progress has already been made on this issue. Point 3. A permanent residence permit is made conditional on a job and sufficient language skills and knowledge of Finnish society. Is it not precisely the workplace, language skills and knowledge of Finnish society that is a prerequisite for the real integration of a person into Finland? Who's against this? Point 4. Allowing full social assistance only on the basis of work or permanent residence permit. In this context, as Mr Kauma has mentioned here, there could be a system, for example, where support is 20% lower if there is no commitment to education, language skills or adequate knowledge of Finnish society. We need incentives for this system because many people who have come as an asylum seeker, if they are going to stay, will probably want to find employment, but then we will be surprised at the situation that we do not necessarily get that job here, and then, if they do, we will be in a situation where we are beginning to think that this job does not necessarily go hand in hand with much more than we do with the various subsidies, which is why we are also proposing a roof, and we are in a situation where it does not encourage work, and that is a big challenge. So I'm sure this would also make sense. We must remember that the Finnish labour market is very rigid. This partly explains the difference that was referred to here, for example, how people with Somali background have employed much better in Minnesota than in Finland. In part, this rigidity of the labour market is also a key factor. Mr President! Finally, a few points we have made: A programme of measures will be put in place, in particular for migrant women and immigrant mothers with low labour market status, in order to inform them of their rights and obligations. Who's against this? Is it not the most important thing that we should integrate these immigrant women who come from a culture where women are mostly at home? Mentors, sponsors and support families will be appointed to support immigrants, such as student communities and companies. Who's against this? In my opinion, this programme of the Assembly is:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u191	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka. — At the same time, I note that this debate will continue for 12 minutes at this stage. Some of it will be used at the end for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u192	Mr President! Statistics clearly show that employment and integration of migrants from certain countries, especially asylum seekers, has remained low for decades and continues. Many people from these countries have not learned Finnish or Swedish in the long-term, let alone have been employed. For decades, thousands of millions have been put into the integration of immigrants in Finland. Despite this, many people who have come here have not been able to integrate into Finnish society. One, and the biggest, reason for this is that only an integration plan is required and implemented, but it is not monitored. Cities and municipalities make 100-page integration plans for the Regional State Administrative Agency and at the same time fail to comply with them. I do not believe that the integration plans contain, for example, a clause requiring city-owned rental housing companies to invest immigrants under social assistance in the same areas and in the same blocks of flats. The fact is that there are more than 20 years of residents in Finland and even immigrants who have acquired Finnish citizenship as parties or accused and yet, despite years of attempts, integration has not been successful, because they need interpreter services. The Marin government wants to promote positive special treatment, under the guise of which the government creates a bypass for different jobs. The programme of the sitting government includes adding positive special treatment in the search for work. In spring of this year, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy published a programme of measures based on the Government Programme of the Marin Government, whose main objective is to promote positive special treatment for immigrants in the public sector and organisations. How can such a bypass even in practice be successful in situations where an immigrant seeking a job does not have sufficient Finnish language skills, training or skills for the job he or she is looking for? How can the government justify the selection of an incompetent candidate for employment for those who have been left on the beach for appropriate training and competence? In Finland, there are a huge number of unemployed Finnish job seekers who have skills in different fields and a desire to work for decent pay. How does the government motivate them to seek employment when the government consciously weakens the ability of the Finns to get work through positive special treatment? Finally, when there is talk in this Chamber that we are racist and talk about racism, I would like to say so much about racism that I met racism in a very concrete way in the past when I was dating an asylum seeker from the Middle East for years. None of my friends, even if you think so, treated him racistly, but that racism came directly from the Middle East. And it is true that in his speech also Mr Virta often referred to the word ‘service’,that we are a servant nation,indecently —in addition to the threat of violence,and only because they have been worthy of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u193	Thank you. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u194	Mr President! Many people come to Finland from elsewhere who study, work, start businesses, and this is a good thing. Many integrate without any further integration. However, according to a report published last year by Kela, 75 per cent of foreigners who come to Finland on humanitarian grounds live on social security. Too few asylum seekers work and you can see that integration has been a challenge. It is unlikely that the aim is to integrate immigrants into social services rather than genuinely find a place in Finnish society. One worrying example of poor implementation of integration in Finland is that various social benefits can be applied for in 12 different languages, for example through Kela's online service, but only three different languages can apply for employment through the Employment Services of the TE Centre. This shows me, at least, that integration in Finland cannot be handled in the right way. There are differences in the motives of those who come to Finland. Seven years ago a friend of mine married Russian Elena, and she moved to Finland. Elena has studied two vocational degrees here, learned Finnish and has been working with her studies all the time. Now he's an entrepreneur. My friend Didar came from Bangladesh to study in Finland a few years ago and is now a successful entrepreneur, responsible for several restaurants. Many Finns can take inspiration from such immigrants. On the other hand, there are many people who have been here for years who still do not speak Finnish and are not working, and I do not think there is any intention of doing so. We have heard a number of examples of these in today's speeches. It is necessary to create more channels for job search. Finland must maintain criteria for moving to the country in such a way as to be more selective as to whom humanitarian aid and other aid is targeted and to whom the residence permit is directed. The focus must be on those whose will to integrate and the prospects for integration and employment are the best in Finland. Finland currently has one of Europe's most skilful criteria, which allows people to live outside at the expense of others without being integrated into Finnish society. With regard to responsibilities, there is a pressing need to tighten up legislation. It is time for Finland to abandon its naive integration policy and make regulation more binding. It must be acknowledged that not all people will ever adapt and may not want to adapt to Finland. It is therefore necessary to be more selective as to who can settle more permanently in the country. We need hard-working people in Finland who want to adapt to Finland and work here productively and even to build society regardless of the country of birth. We do not need unworked standard of living surfers, whether they were native Finns or born elsewhere. I believe that the Government's integration report is incomplete and emphasises the wrong things. It is not the basis for the development of integration activities in our country. For example, positive special treatment for people from other parts of the world when looking for work is fraud against Finnish young people. On the other hand, I would like to present the actions and improvements in the organisation of integration activities highlighted in Pia Kauma's report. These measures and their development can also put integration policy on the right track in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u195	Thank you. — Mr Hopsu is absent, Mr Tynkkynen is absent. — Mr Zyskowicz, please. That is the last point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kiljunen said that the speech by our group president, Kai Mykkänen, was cold and harsh. I, on the other hand, think that Mr Kiljunen had decided in advance on this characterisation and therefore did not listen to what Mr Mykkänen said in his good speech. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to this Article 6(2) of the Constitution. In this debate, both Minister Haatainen and, for example, Mr Pekonen have proved that changing social security so that immigrants have lower social protection and that social security would improve when they learn a language or take part in labour policy measures would be unconstitutional, and this has been invoked in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the last parliamentary term. I now find it a pity that neither Mr Haatainen nor Mr Pekonen have apparently read this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its entirety. Not to mention those journalists who pretend to know that the summer policies of the coalition conflict with the Constitution, and not to mention those Twitter pirates who pretend to know the same thing. This opinion of the Constitutional Committee has already been presented here, but I would like to quote an essential point on this opinion of the last parliamentary term. It reads as follows: ‘In the view of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, the achievement of the objective of integration may be based on factors However, the committee does not believe that reducing the benefits associated with the basic income of immigrants will contribute to the integration of immigrants into society. The Government’s proposal does not properly explain how the reduction of the benefit is intended to contribute to integration.” Of course, the question is: what if the government's proposal had been properly explained, as would certainly have been done and done in the preparation led by Minister Haatainen if such a reform were to take place? In other words, do not invoke the Constitution as an obstacle when it is not necessarily such, although I am aware that the most bizarre things in Finland are contrary to the Constitution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u197	Thank you. — And then Minister Haatainen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u198	Mr President! Maybe it's a little early in the day to go over what you're doing. During the Sipilä government, it has been done and why they have remained in the clutter since the Constitutional Committee, that is, this debate is not taking place here, but rather a debate on what this report on integration is and what it is all about. There is now concern about what this report wants and what it can do. What we want to do now is to be able to strengthen the inclusion, employment, access to society of the people who have come here. Good speeches have also been used here and we have asked how we could also help people who come here, who moved here, to feel that they are also part of this Finnish society, and to better get in touch with people who already live here. Non-governmental organisations, among others, have been raised here, and it is also on the table in this report. The role of NGOs in this is very important, and they are already doing very important work. There has also been concern about this employment of immigrants, and I, of course, am also concerned about it, and all the facts and studies show that knowledge, investing in knowledge, education and training are the key to all of this, a and o. In this respect, the investments already made by the government in education policy will increase the number of training places. And I would like to reiterate that this extension of compulsory education for young people is a very important step, because according to the foresight assessment of the Finnish National Board of Education, the future jobs are such that well under 5% of them are still in a position to succeed without a secondary vocational qualification. So the fact that everyone has an education is essential. Then there will also be people who are well educated, but their language skills are not enough, and this report specifically addresses language skills, Finnish, Swedish. It is good that Parliament is also concerned about this. Now that this is going to committee, when we get feedback on this, we will use it all in the ministry when we draw up this more specific, concrete programme of measures that we will better respond to, hopefully, the challenges that integration policy still needs to address. We are also going through the legislative changes that are still needed for integration legislation. So we'll hear.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u199	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings are thus suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u200	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Congressman Kaleva gone, Congressman al-Taee gone. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u201	Mr President! We have a Government report on the need to reform integration. Mr President! By writing fiction, forgetting and leaving out the facts is the result of just such an account as we have now been given. This is a disappointment. Integration has been a failure since the beginning of various integration measures. Work teaches, and only the following principle should be allowed to enter the country: land like land, and land by work permit. This is such a good thing that it also obliges the employer to take care of its employees. Labour-based immigration is a good thing, as long as working genuinely lives and the immigrant does not have to rely on social support. You can't keep the water in the well. One thing I have raised on several occasions is positive discrimination and positive discrimination in the assessment of basic adult education certificates in secondary education and recruitment. This action will result in the marginalisation of the people of Finland. I believe that the Finnish Parliament should be particularly concerned about the marginalisation of the people of Finland. In other words, it is not right that a person who has entered our country with a good certificate of positive discrimination, who has arrived in our country and who knows a bad Finnish language, ignores a Finnish youth on a course of study and, secondly, sabotages the teaching of another teaching group, because the teacher's time goes to watch that person. Therefore, a language test should be arranged for foreign-language speakers before they are entitled to apply for secondary education. More than a decade ago, it has been said that one young person in Finland who has been excluded is paying a million dollars to society, but what about the marginalised, certain continents that have come to our country? Is he a rich man or is he a bottomless well after all? The report often highlights the word ‘racism’,but crime has been ignored. One might ask: what causes racism? I could guess that a sufficient number of individual cases may cause this phenomenon among taxpayers. Mr President! This is the publication of the Finnish Institute of Legal Policy entitled ‘Immigrants as Victims and Victims of Crimes’. Here we are talking about low employment rates among immigrants, specifically those from the Middle East and Africa, the exceptional height of the level of ill-treatment crime among immigrants from the Middle East and Africa. The crime rate was five to six times higher than that of native Finns. In rape offences, the crime rate related to the population of immigrants was nearly eight times that of the total crime rate of the population. The highest crime rate was among men born in Africa and the Middle East, 17 times higher than among native Finns. You can really think about what causes racism. Unfortunately, I believe that this Government report on the need to reform integration is a fiasco. When I first read this, it inevitably occurred to me whether Paretskoi and Kaarisade were writing it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u202	Congressman Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u203	Mr President! Finland is a free and open society in which individual freedoms and human rights belong to everyone. Finland will remain calm, safe and stable, a good society when everyone who lives here wants and is allowed to build it as their home country. This integration report contains very good basic guidelines and beautiful, workable records, but what I was wondering about is the level of ambition of the government to carry out genuinely structural reforms, that is to say, actions to achieve these objectives. A number of speeches in this debate have highlighted how the programme contains a great deal of development-type expressions — strengthening, developing — but the level of concreteity remains very open. The report highlights the current state and problems of integration with merit, and the report by the Audit Committee on the functioning of integration for 2018 was already at the bottom of the report. In addition, the OECD has carried out a comprehensive assessment of integration policy in Finland, which highlighted, among other things, the low employment rate of immigrants, the learning outcomes below the target level of language skills set for integration training and the distance from working life of the integration services of immigrants outside the labour force. I mean, good, important points in themselves. What this report needed from the government would have been the solutions and answers to these identified, well-defined problems. In other words, instead of describing what is being done, it would describe how the situation to be pursued there can be achieved. Especially when I thought that the government had clearly described the state of will in its own report, one might think that on this board basis these measures could have been achieved, but unfortunately I cannot find that on the basis of this delayed report and on the basis of the existing evidence of the government's activities. During the last term of government, after the refugee crisis in 2015, we made numerous reforms in the Ministry of Education and Culture in a very short time to speed up and enhance integration through education. It was then that basic adult education was created to strengthen basic knowledge and skills. Creating a model for higher education at the School of Responsibility, lowering language skills requirements to participate in vocational education and training, enhancing language teaching and promoting children's participation in early childhood education. I know that, similarly, home training was reformed on the part of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and this work was done with great determination in them, you can say in very challenging circumstances and in the timetables we met in the new situation. I would have liked this government to have taken up this work more rigorously and to have continued to do so, to have started to implement those reforms. For example, even though the learning outcomes of immigrant children should be concretely able to find effective ways and, above all, to find them at the earliest possible stage. I want to raise the importance of early childhood education. Participation in early childhood education is particularly important for children with an immigrant background. The day care centre can also be an important contact with the child’s parents and help the whole family to integrate successfully. Unfortunately, the children most likely to benefit from early childhood education are often the least involved. In many ways, children’s subsequent learning outcomes would be facilitated and helped if children could learn important skills, basic skills, social skills and, of course, Finnish or Swedish and local culture in early childhood education. That is why I would like the government to set a more ambitious pace for increasing the participation rate of early childhood education so that we will have early childhood education covering the entire age group in the future. This would, in particular, be something that could be promoted through a more ambitious reform of family leave that supports the employment of women and promotes equality. The current model proposed by the government does not
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u204	Congressman Holopainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u205	Mr President! To begin with, referring to what Mr Mäenpää said earlier, we must be concerned about all forms of exclusion and always look for individual ways of preventing exclusion. As a representative Mäenpää said that the costs of exclusion are so high that money must be found for everyone to prevent this. But then to this report on integration that is now under consideration. This is a comprehensive measure for the reform of integration and responds to how the inclusion of the growing immigrant population in society can be ensured and the major changes in society, such as the reduction of the working-age population, can also be better exploited. At the moment, our challenge in Finland is the low employment rate of women with foreign background. Women with foreign background employ more than 17 percentage points less than women with Finnish background. This despite the fact that their level of education is almost the same. We're wasting a huge potential here. Reducing social security has not proved to be an effective way of improving employment in the past. Nevertheless, in its speeches here today, the Assembly has also offered it as a solution to this situation. Instead of cutting social security, it makes sense to support people in getting to work and in everyday life. Women who move to Finland most frequently for family reasons would be hit hardest by the fall of the Coalition Party. Fortunately, this government list of measures contains much more effective and more humane measures. It is particularly important to identify the individual needs of different immigrants and to target specific measures in an effective way. The employment of immigrant women is progressing by improving access to early childhood education, increasing quality low-threshold language training, developing apprenticeship opportunities, organising qualification training in the social, health and education sectors, increasing qualifications in English to upper secondary vocational education and training. In addition, it makes great sense to increase the resources for organisations to work in search of employment, mentoring and networking, while also encouraging and supporting small entrepreneurs to recruit immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u206	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u207	Mr President! Of course, it is important to seek these development needs in connection with integration through such reports, but I would like to talk about genuine integration. In my opinion, when you read through this integration programme, it was actually the ideological composition of this government, and it was perhaps the naive grip on how integration should be done. To begin with, the starting point for us Finns is that we would like to see more repatriation, that the role of the Finnish Immigration Service could also be more of an emigration agency, and therefore there would be no need to spend so much resources on this integration. We have a lot of people in the country who really should not be here and who do not meet those conditions, and these conditions are not being looked at often enough. So that is the starting point for us. But for those people who will remain here in any case — with political power relations today, we will not be able to make such changes that certain people will move back into their own cultures with their fellowmen — it is of course important that integration is made. But once again, let's do it the right way. Today, in the speech by Minister Tuula Haatainen and in several speeches by representatives of the government parties as well as, unfortunately, in the opposition, excluding the Finns of Peru — KD, the Coalition Party, the Movement Now — I thought I was finding a bit of an unpleasant tone in this integration. In particular, the Government parties and the Coalition Party stressed how we Finns should integrate. This is not the starting point if we leave Finland as Finns and any country around the world that others should integrate into us Finns. As immigrants, it is our job to do so if we go to another country. Mr President! Finland has been doing this integration work for decades now. Much more has been done in Sweden, for example, or even more if we talk about Germany and France, but the results have always been very similar. It is noted from generation to generation that these groups of people have simply not been able to catch up in the same way as the native population, but in several generations these same problems are detected. There's that illiteracy. There's a lot of that dysfunctional behavior in the schools. Unfortunately, I have seen myself — my background is on the teacher’s side of the class. There's this much-emphatic crime in police statistics. There is youth violence and ganging and so on and so on — the worst of all, of course, this unemployment rate; employment is very low for people who have been involved in integration measures. So you can see that when we have been doing so many decades, and in other countries even more, and the results are always similar, then it has not been the right starting point. We have somehow been naively thought that now that people come to such a good society, so just like that, yes they will slip in here — when little is offered that here would be like this and here would be such an integration service, they will certainly accept and integrate into this society. But this, Mr President, is the wrong starting point. People who are usually involved in integration measures come from societies and cultural areas where the situation is that if you are not prepared to do things and work and take responsibility for your own life, then you do not have bread. You're on the street, you're in the gutter, you're drinking water out of that dirty river, and so on. You have to take responsibility for your own life. And when people from such areas come to us to Finland, mainly humanitarianly, then it is very clear that when Finnish society is based on this kind of well-being, then unfortunately we see in statistics so many that then we throw ourselves on its safety net. Those who are accustomed to such mindsets would need to have precisely those incentives. We heard about the various cartels and measures that have been used if people have not agreed to take this integration through their own lives. If I recall correctly, the Minister mentioned a percentage of 1%, which has suffered from the fact that this integration has not been successfully completed, and this is a rather worrying figure. So this system of ours is not encouraging at the moment. — We are running out of time, so I have to take another floor, but thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u208	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u209	Mr President! I would like to highlight some of the comments made in the consultation on the report, including comments made by Espoo and various educational institutions. Support for integration will cut through different policy areas and administrative sectors, and it is good that the work done by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will now enable Parliament to discuss the development of integration, taking into account the different needs of immigrants, the service system as a whole and the promotion of demographic relationships. Immigration and the successful integration of immigrants will be one of the key elements of Finland’s vitality in the coming decades. According to the population projection published by Statistics Finland in 2018, the number of people of working age in Finland without immigration and emigration would decrease by 217,000 by 2030. By 2050 the number of people of working age would fall by 630,000. The decline in the volume of migration or the fact that it is at present at the current level, as well as the permanent deterioration of the employment situation which is weaker than that of the rest of the population, would make it difficult or impossible to solve the sustainability gap, would jeopardise the functioning of the labour market and would undermine the financing base for public services and pensions. Half of the Finnish-speaking population live in three municipalities: Helsinki, Espoo and Vantaa. The number of foreign-language residents in Espoo is likely to exceed the current population of Kainuu or the region of Central Ostrobothnia — or, I'm sorry, the welfare area — before the end of this council term that has just begun. One of the key factors for Finland’s integration policy is how successful partnership between the major cities and the state in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area can be achieved. Since the number and structure of the population treats different parts of Finland and different municipalities in very different ways, it is difficult to pursue an effective integration policy on the basis of the smallest common denominators that unite all municipalities. One of our biggest challenges is the atmosphere of attitude. The learning gap between second generation immigrants and the population is one of the largest in Europe. According to the 2018 Pisa study, one-third of people born in Finland from foreign background were so weak that it makes it difficult for them to go to further studies — that is something that was already being discussed here in the hall. The results of the school health survey highlight the lack of belonging to the group and also the poor motivation to study. According to E2’s study of values and attitudes, only 48 per cent of Somali speakers born in Finland think that the ethnic background does not matter to Finns. The result is likely to be disappointing as to whether young people born and raised in Finland and born and raised in a visible minority have felt accepted as themselves as part of our society. Mr President! Among the points to be highly appreciated and supported in the report are inclusion, individualisation, flexibility and, in general, recognition of the diversity and multilingualism of the integration population. There is a special contribution to women and support, among other things, for access to education for domestic parents. However, after emphasising personalisation and flexibility, it is contradictory and confusing to recognise the need to shorten integration time. In particular, trauma-related students themselves report that it is often only after the first year that the mental state is sufficiently stable and the environment is considered safe to enable learning to begin. The most vulnerable people with a reading and writing background or educational background, often the parents of families, and, at the same time, those who are often weak in digital skills, cannot necessarily achieve the skills that our society needs from an adult, even if it is desirable and effective from a society's point of view. This requirement for acceleration is repeated when the target level is not achieved and cannot be applied for and reached the next level in the studies. Was that about five minutes? [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : 5 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u212	Congressman Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u213	Thank you, Mr President. I can see here that Mr Hopsu and I are on a very dear and important subject — that is not enough for five minutes. But I was talking about the fact that if you come from a certain kind of culture where you have to bear the responsibility or otherwise the living conditions collapse, then when you come to Finland we cannot go with the idea that you can just throw it away here. It is too easy for the psyche to begin with, and then there must be incentives and even sanctions. In other words, if, for example, you do not learn a language within a certain time limit, then the grounds for a permanent residence permit and so on can be taken away. Mr Mykkänen spoke earlier today, which I was very surprised to hear. He said in his group speech that we do not have to worry about this high-skilled labour force in terms of integration, and I could not disagree more about this. Nevertheless, even if an immigrant from another country has come here to set up a company and even hired Finns and, so to speak, financially manages to do so, it is not desirable that this cohesion of our society should fall apart, but also for such immigrants who are successful in economic terms, it would be particularly important for them to gain social access to this society and to understand Finnish culture and also, in the same way, to start living in the country in the same way, such as those who have come to Finland through humanitarian immigration. I do not believe that we can have different rules of play for people who are low-income immigrants and, on the other hand, different rules of play for people who are rich immigrants, but I would like to see it understood in the coalition that this country of ours will remain good and united and cohesion will remain good in society, when everyone here lives in the country the way of the country, learns the language and is required of everyone who lives here. Well, then it was also mentioned here earlier that in the future this integration can be promoted in particular by, for example, bringing this language training to their homes for women. Here again is the naive premise that it can be helped in that way, but what are we really going to do about it? Unfortunately, we have cultures in this world in which women are deliberately kept at home, even cultures that are not only kept at home but are also veiled, and cultures that if a woman leaves home, she must have a husband — that is, her own husband or a relative — with her to leave her home. And now, if we in Finland think that we are helping these women in such a way that language training is taken to these women’s homes, then we will be able to allow their husbands to subdue these women. Mr President! In the case of such women, it is absolutely essential that we have such obligations, that in the same way these women leave home, come to the same places, buildings where these language courses are organised, where they are able to deal with different kinds of people. If they do not come, then, for example, the grounds for a permanent residence permit or so on will not be met, and at the latest their husbands who would like to keep this woman at home will realize that she alone will be forced to allow this woman to attend these language courses close by, because otherwise it will also affect her life and the life of the mother of her children. So it's not like we're doing that mole job at the same time we're integrating. The Greens, on the other hand, were mentioned earlier about how there are not enough language courses. If we start to compare in that way how many people we have who need these integration measures from the point of view of language learning, then of course there are far more of them than we have, for example, courses. But, for example, my own boyfriend just enrolled — whether it is now last week — in a new language course, and the problem was that the language course may not be arranged if there are not enough students there. Well, luckily, at least seven students were admitted and that language course began to be arranged. But the point is that if people don’t sign up for these courses, we shouldn’t waste money on keeping empty courses running. So first you have to get people to take classes, then you can have more of them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u214	Thank you. — And Mr Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u215	Mr President! First of all, Mr Grahn-Laasonen's attention to the fact that I am very much in line with the level of participation in early childhood education, and the two-year pre-school experiment is now under way until 24, which means that the government has looked for ways to do so. Of course, there could also be a permanent form of action. Tynkkynen and I are very much in line with the fact that education is the key to solutions. And this report contains a lot of good proposals, such as the establishment of quality criteria for integration training, which at least define the skills required of teachers in integration training and the minimum requirements for teaching facilities. Vocational education and training is part of the funding criterion based on foreign languages, which will probably respond to the concerns raised by Mr Mäenpää, and it has been decided to increase the resources of liberal education to integrate into education and training, so that they are sufficient to meet the needs for education. This was the subject of a debate earlier this week. Well, the comments that may arise here from a slightly different tone in other speeches and for which something should be done are that more specific support is needed in vocational education, including S2 education, i.e. Finnish or Finnish as a second language, and support workplaces and workplaces, so that there is no danger or disturbance. The lack of language skills is not particularly supportive, but often the learning difficulties of foreign speakers are not recognised. It would take a lot of expertise to do this. Similarly, teachers in vocational education and training need more skills: continuing training related to language awareness, the use of plain language, equality in general. And there is a need for funding for projects that make these clear language learning materials and organise these trainings. Sub-qualifications could be awarded to adult immigrants on a clearer basis, and educational institutions could be subject to obligations that, even within a longer period of time, for example 5 years, it will be possible to complete the degree after these sub-qualifications. A good thing is the progress of wage support and the wider use of work trials to promote employment among immigrants. It is important to integrate language learning also in the context of work and to enable this to be done by employers, for example through pay support. Well, families also require various support measures. Two mother tongues could be included in the population register in the future. What about this kind of study of duo families? What is the status of immigrant fathers in divorced families? How is joint custody understood? What kind of support does a single parent receive? What about the possibilities of living in rotation? These are important for the whole family. Then there has been much talk of facilitating family reunification in the Chamber in connection with Afghanistan, but that is something that makes its integration progress, one might say, the best, when the whole family is safe here. UMAKO training, education in liberal education, should also be extended after integration. And here was this guidance for language studies, Mr Tynkkynen talked about it. Now much is being directed through the Employment and Economic Development Centres, and this would be a good idea for municipalities to take a booth in the social services or education sector, where a booth can be reached, whether it be housewives, disabled people, pensioners or those who are left out of the labour force, they would be better directed to these language trainings. We are also beginning to have people from Somalia who are already elderly and need services in their native language in the early 1990s. This could be a model of how Finns in Sweden have retired and also need elderly services. On the other hand, there is the provision of maternity clinic services in different languages at the age of a baby, and there, for example, is the development of video material that can then spread the information. But in the end, I want to say that these individuals need to be taken care of, young people need to be taken care of, not to create the kind of insults that fall from the path.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u216	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u217	Thank you, Mr President. For those people who have a legitimate reason to be in the country and then want to stay here, of course this integration is in everyone's interest. Firstly, if people integrate into this society, I believe that it will actually reduce that racism. I do not think it is a question of us Finns not now being integrated into this situation and we somehow have too many unnecessary preconceptions that would not rise from anything. In fact, I am analysing the situation in such a way that when people have not been prepared to integrate into this society and to take the trouble to learn the language and learn customs or have not wanted to follow certain customs, it means that when there have been different reports of what has been done wrong, then of course there are doubts, and so I think that this integration is at the heart of integration, that is to say, the integration of these immigrants, that racism in society will also be reduced, because no one has any reason to doubt with some kind of dark run that it can not happen at all now. Man behaves in exactly the same way as other Finns. Well, then integration will of course also benefit people first and foremost, this immigrant, who will become part of Finnish society. His life will be better in this society. We are also able to prevent exclusion and, above all, the crime that often follows. Unfortunately, we have now, to a growing extent, had just these scenes in the afternoon newspapers, how juvenile delinquency is growing and shops start buying knives and there is such a Thug culture. Above all, integration also has the advantage of preserving this economic capacity of society. So it is not that we expect — when we come here new people, which are expected of these things, say, for example, either humanitarian migration or cheap labor — that they will fix this dependency relationship, that we will have nurses for the elderly in the future, as it often means that they will be left behind by these safety nets and they themselves will become a financial burden and will need more people who are working, or that they will earn more to get this tax revenue, so that the elderly can manage, hire enough nurses. In other words, making people truly integrate into work will preserve the economic carrying capacity of society. The language here is at the heart of it. At the moment, we simply do not require enough knowledge of this Finnish language. From my own background as a class teacher, as a class teacher and as a substitute, I can tell you that we unfortunately have women today, we have development discussions in schools — when there is an immigrant woman with her child, for example, and the teacher comes into that classroom and we have this traditional development debate — even though she has been in Finland for 10 years, we still need an interpreter, and this is not a sustainable situation. And most of all I wonder how it can be that we Finnish citizens need this language training for immigrants, that if you are a Finnish citizen, shouldn't it at the latest be a sign that a person knows a language as if it were at an adequate level? If this is not required at the mother tongue level, it is said, however, that it is almost native level so that he can be Finnish. Earlier today, Minister Hatainen was actually underestimating this language requirement relating to citizenship, which I put forward. When it comes to a report on how to develop integration, should it not be stated in the report that in the future these citizenship requirements, which in themselves would be these carrots to actually integrate, should they not learn the Finnish language? At the moment, then, if you are going to acquire Finnish citizenship, this requirement for language skills, along with these other criteria, is the average. So... These language levels can be found on the website of the Finnish National Board of Education. There is a basic level, the average level, the highest level, and it is enough to meet this average level and get Finnish citizenship if other conditions are met. — — — — Perhaps we should finish this speech when there seems to be no others here. [Presidential comment] I am now reading on the website of the Finnish National Board of Education as a definition of this average, which is therefore required for citizenship. So it's level B. “The person understands a more continuous sequence of talker-centred ideas for a A person understands ordinary everyday life texts, but more demanding texts with a foreign subject may cause difficulties. To cope with the most common practical speech situations and to be able to write a simple single text on common topics, although grammatical and vocabularyal deficiencies sometimes make it difficult to understand.” In fact, from the perspective of us Finns, who have Finnish as their mother tongue, we actually talk about a rather primitive Finnish language level in the final games in such a definition. And yet, although this is, as it were, the minimum level in general, the Migri pages still have these principles, which can still differ from these, even though this should be the minimum. Therefore, if we want better integration, the absolute carrot would be that citizenship would only be obtained when we reached that level of c, that is to say, the highest level. And that does not yet correspond to what is, as it were, the native level of the mother tongue — that is, it is not required, but it would be required sufficiently as a learned language. For example, on level c, it says: ‘I understand all kinds of normal tricks, even if sometimes understanding can make a necessary effort if the subjectmatter or the case is a stranger. Understands structurally and linguistically complex texts and literature of our own time. Speaks and writes clearly and fluently on different subjects, but the use of rare words and complex sentence structures may be difficult.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u218	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Minister Haatainen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u219	Mr President! The government has already proposed in the past to extend the temporary amendment of the Unemployment Protection Act related to the corona pandemic in order to ensure the livelihood of entrepreneurs through labour market support. The current temporary change is valid until the end of September 2021. The abolition of large-scale restrictions on the corona epidemic will increase consumer demand for services, for example, which will support the recovery and the recovery of business conditions to a better level. There may be a delay in the recovery of demand depending on the sector and may take time to restore the business environment. In the event of a deterioration in this pandemic situation, restrictions will have to be re-established in line with the updated interest rate strategy. In this situation, the government has considered it justified to propose to Parliament that entrepreneurs continue to be entitled to labour market support on the basis of a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act 30. until November 2021. On the basis of a temporary change, it has been possible to provide labour market support to entrepreneurs in a situation where the amount of work or income generated by the company has been reduced due to a pandemic, but business activity will continue. In this situation, unemployment benefit is normally not paid and, in principle, it is required to terminate the business. The proposal relates to the fourth draft amending budget of the State for 2021. The continuation of the change in labour market support for entrepreneurs is estimated to increase unemployment security expenditure on public finances by around EUR 29.9 million and to target around 21500 entrepreneurs per month, unless there are significant changes in the pandemic and employment situation. This estimate is based on the number of entrepreneurs for whom Kela paid labour market support under the temporary provision in July 2021. It is estimated that approximately EUR 9.9 million of the costs would be borne by municipalities in the form of so-called Kela fines.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u220	Thank you. — And Mr Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u221	Mr President! As we heard in the Minister's presentation, many companies have been hit hard by Korona and its restrictive measures. For example, through cost support and other forms of aid, the State has made a contribution to helping companies to remain viable. At this stage, it seems that business life has recovered and is recovering surprisingly well from the interest rate. According to the new business centres, for example, new companies are already being set up even more vigorously than before the interest rate. It's not over yet. Many companies are still under pressure. The final consequences for businesses and entrepreneurs will only be seen later. In the latest entrepreneurial poll, 41 per cent of enterprises reported that the interest rate further reduces sales. The survival and recovery of business life must also mean that both during the previous parliamentary term and during the present government, entrepreneurship has been encouraged. The entrepreneurial attitude has been supported and, for example, corporate taxation has been kept as predictable and stable as possible. This government proposal concerns the continuation of the temporary change in unemployment security for entrepreneurs. The aim is to secure the livelihood of entrepreneurs in a still uncertain situation as a result of the interest rate. This temporary strengthening of unemployment benefit has become positive feedback from entrepreneurs. This change is good in this situation, where restrictions are still ongoing. The economy and employment are now on the rise, but there is a risk of short growth if we do not make a policy that supports the economy and employment. As new jobs are created in enterprises, companies play an essential role in restoring the economy. That is why it is important to ensure business continuity, and this government proposal is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u222	Thank you. — Mr Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u223	Mr President! In this Government proposal it is proposed to extend the temporary amendment of the Act on Unemployment Security for Entrepreneurs. The proposal contained in the fourth amending budget must be supported, as the corona crisis is far from over for entrepreneurs. Income is still in a number of weak situations, as the restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of the virus and their variations have had a detrimental effect on business. The aim of the Government proposal is to secure the livelihood of entrepreneurs in an uncertain situation due to the interest rate. A person who is fully employed in a business is in principle entitled to unemployment benefit if the entire business activity is discontinued. This condition may have been waived during the interest rate on the basis of the provision on labour market support in force on a provisional basis in the Unemployment Protection Act. The current provision will remain in force until the end of September. This temporary labour market support right would be extended unchanged until the end of November. It is only right to hope that vaccinations will progress rapidly and will be able to open up society to its normal size. Open society is the best support for entrepreneurs and businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u224	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u225	Mr President! So, Minister, as has already been pointed out several times in this Chamber, this is a very familiar bill for us, because we have already extended the temporary provision on the right of entrepreneurs to support the labour market on several occasions. This is a proposal relating to the corona, which entitles the entrepreneur to apply for labour market support until the end of November instead of the end of September. Since the matter has already been dealt with several times, yesterday in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, we started a preliminary discussion on the subject with a view to bringing this matter back to the Chamber as soon as possible. Unfortunately, with regard to the interest rate, we are still in a situation where it is very important for entrepreneurs to continue to live — I would not say necessary — in terms of their livelihood. The criticism has come from further work in the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices), which is linked to the repeated temporary amendment of the law, but at this point it is good to remember that the legislation relating to corona, its need, its length, is also very difficult for us to predict here either. On the other hand, I would like to believe that in the future we would be able to get rid of temporary provisions of this kind, so to speak, to win the interest rate gradually, and thus the business sector would be able to achieve a new standard. When restrictions can be dismantled throughout the autumn, it will increase consumer demand and again enable the conditions for business to return to a much better level. Until then, subsidies and, in this case, labour market support for entrepreneurs are needed. We are not talking about a small number of people, because in the light of these figures there are more than 20,000 people, whose skills and jobs are sorely needed even after the interest rate. So, Mr President, an important follow-up to which some of the entrepreneurs have already asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u226	Thank you. — And Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u227	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal has some support from this direction. Of course, the only thing that I think should be done here is that this should even be grown in some form even in the normal time, because entrepreneurs in the truth in this category are in a lot of pain with all kinds of fluctuations. There is seasonal variation and so forth, and it is extremely difficult then to be: whether or not to have a business, does it make sense? And, of course, it goes without saying that the verification period for whether or not an undertaking can be held is not a month, but a calendar year. On that donkey night, I would go to the point where I am in full support of this case, but I was confused as to why we should leave this year with the one month when it does not exist, which is until the end of November. Why isn't it until the end of December? However, quite a large number of these are entrepreneurs of the type that they do not have financial statements at the end of April or the like, but are rather these small entrepreneurs, who often go virtually for that kind of taxation. It would have been a lot clearer when this case would have been up until the end of the year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u228	Thank you. — And Mr Kalli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u229	Mr President! This proposal to extend the temporary amendment of the Unemployment Security Act, which protects entrepreneurs' livelihoods, is necessary and supported. It is wonderful that, in the light of all forecasts, the economy is starting to grow rapidly. In terms of employment, positive developments can be seen in many places already, even in such a way that the labour shortages that have already been seen before the corona crisis have returned and become even worse. The availability of skilled labour is therefore a major challenge which the government also resolved in its budget line and which requires rapid progress. However, despite this growth and good outlook, there are still a number of areas which have not yet recovered or are still hampered by the re-initiation of coronavirus and its management, directly or indirectly. There are also a large number of entrepreneurs whose livelihoods are therefore threatened and who need to be offered the opportunity to make a living, even if the precarious situation persists for some time. That is why it is still necessary and sensible to extend this change. Mr President! The most important thing, however, is to work together to build a business environment so that entrepreneurs can return to their profession and business as soon as possible, serve their customers and develop their own activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u230	Thank you. — And Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u231	Mr President! The interest rate crisis has treated entrepreneurs differently depending on the sector in which they operate. Fortunately, a lot has come back and many companies are already doing what is normal, some are doing even better than before the corona. But then there are still areas such as the event sector, tourism, including restaurants, taxis and some others, which are clearly worse off than before, and that is why it is still important that this continue. But it must be said in the same way as Mr Laakso that I wonder why this extension is only two months, and I am particularly surprised because, when this issue was last discussed, even then the Coalition Party and the People's Party agreed that this would be the end of the year. It must be borne in mind that, even if, for example, this October, we were to get away from the corona restrictions to a large extent, during October to November, business will still not return to normal in those sectors which have suffered heavily from this. It is certainly the case that many of these more than 20,000 people who are currently receiving this support are not in a position to operate normally at the end of November. So the least we can do now is to continue this until the end of the year, and that is something we will certainly be presenting in committee. Mr President! A few more words about whether this is wise to set things straight. My own view is that it is not wise to make it permanent, but this should be temporary. I understand that this is also the view of Finnish Entrepreneurs. Indeed, in the long run, we should not encourage people to do business where income levels are as low as they are required to receive aid and, on the other hand, it will also have a competitive effect if such permanent support is for those other companies which are often small, even though they may be employed by one or two people in addition to the entrepreneur. It would also have a competitive effect if such aid were permanent. In other words, this is the kind of aid which is intended to be temporary and it is also good to keep it temporary, but it has been very important in this period of interest rate, and it should now be ensured that this aid is not pushed down too quickly and thereby taking away the conditions for entrepreneurship for many thousands of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u232	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u233	Mr President! In principle, a person employed in a business is entitled to unemployment benefit only if the entire business activity is discontinued. It has now been possible to derogate from this condition during the pandemic. The current provision is now coming to an end and this proposal will extend unemployment benefit until the end of November. Here again, the government has acted quickly and flexibly, with the prospect that this uncertain interest period will continue. Mr President! Unfortunately, the pandemic showed that there are major gaps in the unemployment security of entrepreneurs. They should therefore be replaced by a future reform of social security, for which a good starting point would be the basic income model. At the same time, it would place many other welfare state security nets under the necessary subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u234	Thank you. — Mr Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u235	Mr President! As colleagues have already said, the proposal proposes a temporary extension of the amendment of the Unemployment Protection Act, which is intended to enter into force on 1.10. and it would be valid until 30.11.2021. I would have asked the Minister: After this temporary derogation, are there any possible permanent proposals to improve social security for self-employed persons and small entrepreneurs in particular? Have there been any studies of how well this temporary unemployment benefit right for entrepreneurs responds to the challenges posed directly or indirectly by the interest rate to entrepreneurs? I would also like to ask: Is a gender impact assessment planned or has there already been a gender impact assessment of the impact of the interest rate on sole entrepreneurs or small entrepreneurs in different sectors? As has already been mentioned here, we know that some of the entrepreneurs are also winners, but far too many of them are losers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u236	Mr Haatainen, please, three minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u237	Mr President! On these last questions, these assessments: I'm gonna have to check it out. And I have to say, I'm not quite sure if it's done. Much is being followed up on how this affects companies and it may be that a gender impact assessment has already been carried out, but I promise to come back to it and tell you later. But to this question, why is this until the end of November: of course, the government's wish is that we get to the normal situation. Mr Satonen rightly said that, of course, these forms of social security and aid must be kept clear. This was an exceptional way of establishing this procedure so that the entrepreneur does not have to stop his business now because of this corona crisis. And now we are constantly following what is happening here. And now that this pandemic has been so violent, now that restrictions are lifted, this consumer demand is recovering and the conditions for companies to operate are improving, and it always comes with a little delay, and the price tag is 15 million a month. And now it has been considered that, in this situation, where restrictions are being lifted but, on the other hand, we are still in a precarious situation with this pandemic, we will continue for a further 2 months and will follow closely what happens. But the goal is that we can get to the normal situation through the dismantling of these restrictions and the increase in vaccination coverage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u238	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Minister Lintilä, please present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u239	Mr President! The retail market for electricity in Finland consists of 77 distribution system operators and 64 retailers. Operators communicate, for example, customer migrations and sales transactions by means of fixed information exchange messages by electronic means. Many hundreds of millions of these messages are sent each year. The current exchange of information has been introduced in 98 C.E. and is beginning not to help too hard on today's demands. For this reason, Finland has decided to move to a centralised data exchange and solution, a data hub managed by the main network company Fingrid. The preparatory work has started in 2014, and in 2019 Parliament adopted key legislative changes required by datahub. The same year, the date of introduction of the data hub was set at 21.2.22. A centralised and standardised interface with electricity consumption information will promote the use of smart grids and meters, new business opportunities and services such as energy efficiency services, the operation of electric car charging operators and the provision of demand response to the market, facilitate the handling of decentralised electricity generation and increase competition in retail markets. The introduction of Datahub requires all distribution system operators and retailers to simultaneously switch to new, centralised data exchange users. The introduction of Datahub is a massive development and coordination of information systems. This proposal is intended to introduce a five-month deployment period during which no new sellers or network companies would be included in the data hub. In addition, the proposal clarifies the situations in which a retailer or network company will not be able to introduce datahub services by the 2022 deadline. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure the timely deployment of datahub and to ensure that customers' access to electricity and services and the functioning of the retail electricity markets would not be jeopardised in the event of problems with the deployment of datahub. The measures taken by the proposal are strict. However, similar measures are already included in existing legislation. The proposal would clarify how control measures would be implemented in practice if the company did not achieve data hub compatibility within the time limit. The measures have also been communicated to the industry in 2019 when the date for the introduction of datahub was set. The implementation of Datahub on schedule is an important objective. Delays in take-up entail costs for operators who have completed the preparatory work as planned and in accordance with the timetable. These costs are also passed on to customer prices. Delays in take-up also delay other electricity market development projects, such as the possibility for customers to set up an energy community. The laws are meant to enter into force as soon as possible. The introduction period would begin on 1.11.2021 and end on 31.3.2022. In the event of major deployment problems, the introduction of data hubs and deployment periods could be postponed by a Government decree for up to a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u240	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Kalli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u241	Mr President! Indeed, as Minister Lintilä has just said, the introduction of centralised services for the exchange of information in the electricity trade, this so-called data hub, has been under discussion and prepared for a long time since 2014. There is therefore a long preparation and a great deal of work that has taken a lot of resources from the various parties over the years, and it is great that we are now approaching this time when the services will finally be introduced. The reform is extensive and affects a large number of actors and it is therefore understandable that the introduction and its undisturbed operation also involve risks. That is why it is justified that, before the introduction of the data hub in February next year, we should now regulate this separate five-month deployment period, during which the undisturbed deployment of new services will be ensured. After all, the reform itself is huge and of a very technical nature and it is not in itself directly visible to the end customer of the electricity market. However, its deployment will provide a platform for a wide range of products and services, the development of which will also be visible to consumers in the future as constantly evolving and expanding energy services. This serviceisation of the energy sector — a difficult word — is also part of the response to the climate challenge and the ongoing energy transition. New smart solutions and energy services will make the customer more and more a leader in energy policy and an active operator in the energy market. For this, too, we need the data hub that is now being processed in order to make the development of new services a viable platform. Hopefully, the introduction will take place in due course in a timely and precise manner. The separate deployment period now being presented must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u242	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u243	Mr President! This centralised exchange of information on electricity is highly expected and, as described above, is the result of a long preparatory process. These expectations focus on services for the benefit of electricity users, the potential for energy saving and the monitoring of consumption. The aim is to clarify and speed up the exchange of information, and the permit is from the customer's point of view, i.e. the Finns' point of view, to expect better customer service, new intelligent services, and so the exchange of electricity sales has been promised faster, so competition in the market will hopefully also be made for the benefit of consumers. As the Minister said in his presentation, this whole piece of legislation is quite technical and is linked to this implementation phase and process. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will deal with this issue in accordance with the wishes of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in an effective and timely manner. And it is hoped that this smooth process will succeed, that this whole entity will then be brought to the finish line. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u244	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Minister Lintilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u245	Mr President! The Nuclear Liability Act provides for the responsibility of the holder of a nuclear installation located in Finland after a nuclear accident occurs. Nuclear damage refers to damage caused by radiation from a nuclear installation. The Government's proposal to the Parliament to amend the Act on Nuclear Liability and the Act on Nuclear Liability is based on international obligations. International agreements binding on Finland guide the amounts of responsibility. International regulation is of great importance because potential nuclear damage can be cross-border and affect regions of several countries. The most recent amendments to the International Conventions on Nuclear Liability, the Paris Convention and the Brussels Additional Convention have been amended by the 2004 Amending Protocols, which Finland has already signed in the same year, but have not yet entered into force. The Parliament has approved the abovementioned Amending Protocols and the laws on the enforcement of provisions falling within the scope of the legislation of these Protocols. These laws were adopted on 23 June 2005 and will enter into force at the date specified by the Government Decree. It has been envisaged that the laws will enter into force at the same time as the Amending Protocols will enter into force for Finland. The Council of the European Union has required ratification of the Protocols in all its Member States at the same time. The entry into force of the Amending Protocols has been delayed as the insurance market did not have to offer the nuclear liability insurance required by them. Now the readiness to ratify the protocols has been achieved and the ratification ceremony will take place in December 2021. The main changes to the Nuclear Liability Act concern the amounts of liabilities covered by insurance to nuclear installations. The responsibility of the operator of a nuclear power plant would be increased from EUR 700 million to EUR 1.2 billion. The amount of liabilities under the Nuclear Liability Act would be phased in so that the highest level of liability would apply only to nuclear installations used for energy production, the activities of which involve the highest risk of significant cost damage. In the case of non-energy nuclear installations and the transport of nuclear materials, the amount of responsibility would be between EUR 80 and 250 million. Differentiation of responsibilities directly in the core liability law will allow for the waiver of ad hoc decision-making in order to reduce the amount of responsibilities. The aim is to increase predictability for operators and to reduce the administrative burden currently arising from the process of reducing the amount of responsibility for both the nuclear plant owner and the Government. In addition, a special insurance guarantee would be provided by the Government for compensation of personal injury occurring later than 10 years but not later than 30 years after the nuclear event, subject to the conditions laid down. It is also proposed that Parliament should give its consent to a reservation on the so-called principle of reciprocity in the context of the ratification of the 2004 Paris Convention amending protocols. In addition, the proposal proposes that Parliament give its consent to Finland to provide an explanation in the context of ratification of the Amending Protocol to the Brussels Additional Convention as amended by the Protocol of 2004.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u246	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 20/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u247	Thank you, Mr President. I present this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The proposal provides for the suspension and recovery of incorrectly paid state aid related to the investment of Business Finland Venture Capital Ltd. Recovery is entrusted to the Innovation Finance Agency Business Finland. The investments involving State aid for the investments of Business Finland Venture Capital Oy are based on the company’s investment policy and risk finance programme, which is based on the general block exemption regulation adopted by the European Commission and Article 21 thereof. At present, the Business Finland Venture Capital Oy Act does not provide which entity can take a recovery decision on an investment that is not considered to comply with the requirements of the General Block Exemption Regulation. Recovery could take place in situations where, at the time of the investment, the financial history of the target company has been too long or the target company has been a so-called firm in difficulty. The manner in which the investment is carried out may have been contrary to the General Block Exemption Regulation even if the undertaking concerned fulfils the requirements of the General Block Exemption Regulation and Article 21 thereof. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that the proposed legislation is necessary and appropriate and supports its adoption with the following comments, which I shall go through in the main terms: First of all, from the constitutional point of view: Article 124 of the Constitution states that important tasks involving the exercise of public authority can only be entrusted to the authority. Recovery has been consistently regarded as a significant exercise of public authority within the meaning of Article 124 of the Constitution. In the proposed regulation, the power to recover has now been duly addressed to the Innovation Finance Agency, an agency within the administrative branch of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and thus an authority within the meaning of Article 124 of the Constitution. Retroactivity: The proposal also provides for a retroactive recovery procedure. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the recovery of State aid is not a penalty within the meaning of Article 8 of the Constitution, nor does it constitute an administrative penalty. Therefore, the proposed application of the recovery regulation does not constitute a retroactive penalty prohibited by Article 8 of the Constitution and the proposed entry into force provision is not problematic in the light of the principle of criminal law. The draft law has also been examined in the order of precedence of the draft in the light of Article 15 of the Constitution on the Protection of Assets. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered that the proposed regulation is not problematic either for the sustainability of contractual relations. In assessing the temporal scope of the recovery, it is of particular importance that the obligation under the State aid rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to recover prohibited aid has already been in force when investments were made. Similarly, Articles 21 and 22 of the State Aid Act define the general block exemption regulation defining the permissible framework for State aid and the criteria for recovery, even when the investee fund has made an investment prior to its entry into force, have been in force and binding. The same applies to the provisions on the calculation of the recovery interest on unlawful aid in Regulation 79/2004/EC. In so far as the investments made prior to the entry into force of the regulation proposed by the Government before the present proceedings involve unlawful State aid, the aid in question has already been unlawful at the time of the investment. Since its granting, such unlawful aid has also been subject to a recovery obligation based on the EU Treaties and thus on the law in force in the Member States. Conclusions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary A Member State may choose the means by which it fulfils its recovery obligations provided that they comply with the principle of efficiency and equivalence. In view of the fact that the use of public authority must be based on the law under Article 2(3) of the Constitution, there must be an explicit legal basis for suspending and recovering prohibited State aid. This is also reflected in the provision of Article 4(2) of the proposed law, which obliges the company to inform the financial centre of the recovery criterion determined in accordance with the legislation referred to in Article 4(3) and (4). Such a recovery criterion would be defined in the proposed Articles 4a(3) and (4). According to these provisions, the Innovation Finance Agency would be obliged to take a decision to suspend or recover State aid if the State aid is incompatible with the EU General Block Exemption Regulation or if the recipient of State aid has acted as described in Articles 21 or 22 of the State Aid Code. On the whole, regulation on the definition of the legal criteria for recovery can be considered to be rather loose. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its opinion that it is necessary to clarify the rules. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that the problematic elements of the provision indicated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are by their nature reference provisions: the grounds for recovery are derived either from the regulation of block exemption Regulation No 651/2014 or from the State Aid Act. Referring to the Block Exemption Regulation is not an entirely problematic way of describing the situations in which recovery takes place. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy agrees with this position, but points out that EU regulation explicitly requires the flexibility of this provision. In this Survey, Article 4a(3) does notremove the impreciseness of the national Furthermore, Article 4a(4), which states that recovery should be effected if the beneficiary has acted in breach of the State aid law, is in need of clarification: the provision does not take a position on the precise reference to the law on which recovery is based. Like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers this to be an unsatisfactory regulatory solution, but it is not possible to clarify the inaccuracies and inaccuracies of the system of state aid legislation that goes beyond this issue by amending the provisions of the present law alone. The Committee on Economic Affairs draws the Government's attention to the need to assess the need to update state aid legislation as a whole. As recovery is an administrative procedure, Article 31 of the Administrative Law requires the Innovation Finance Agency to provide adequate and appropriate clarification of the recovery criteria before taking a recovery decision. The Centre shall therefore provide an explanation that the State aid granted is prohibited and that there are sufficient grounds for its recovery. In accordance with Article 34 of the Administrative Law, the object of the recovery is also to be consulted on the recovery claim and the related explanations. In addition, the decision must be justified in accordance with Article 45 of the Administrative Law. The legality of the recovery decision can be assessed by the administrative court. Procedural regulation can be considered as strengthening the legal certainty of the object of recovery in relation to the loose definition of recovery powers. Proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs: Parliament adopts, without amendment, the bill contained in the government proposal HE 239/2020 vp. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u248	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 19/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. I shall open the general discussion. — Mr Kalli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u249	Mr President! It's very brief. I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for this report and the committee's amendments to the legislative proposal. In particular, I would like to thank the committee for having taken note of the concern expressed by the Committee on Economic Affairs in its opinion that some of the requirements set out in the draft law could lead to an excessive administrative burden for small IORPs. In this connection, the committee proposes to add a provision that, for IORPs under 100, the application of Sections 22 and 24 of Chapter 4 of the Pension Fund and Pension Fund Act is limited in certain respects. This amendment is to be welcomed, and I thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u250	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on SIVM 8/2021 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. I'm opening a conversation. Congressman Risikko, gone. — Representative Attimpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u251	Mr President! I thank the Committee on Culture and Education for a good report. For us Finns and our attitude, I think that this report will start by emphasising the general social importance of libraries. The Committee notes that libraries support citizens' equal opportunities for self-development, not only from the point of view of information but also from the point of view of culture. Libraries are important to Finns. They are widely used, and through them we have been able to grow and become stronger and survive in a changing world. Mr President! Since the time of Santeri Alkio, the central value has been that we want to support and strengthen people's capacity to help themselves. Libraries play an important role in this, as they deepen and expand knowledge, culture and culture. Each of us and the whole country must look forward, and here we are greatly helped by libraries. As the committee states in its report, the Library of Parliament serves Parliament in its field of activity and acts as the central archive of Parliament. It also acts as a central library for the provision of public legal information, social information and parliamentary information. As a member of the Board of Directors of the Library, it has also been rewarding to familiarise yourself with the activities of the Library of Parliament and to see how the activities of the Library of Parliament are valued across party boundaries. I would like to thank the staff of the Library of Parliament for their good work. Even during the corona period, the library could, as far as possible and within the limits, serve representatives and other people who need the services of the library. Indeed, the services have been limited, sometimes more, sometimes less, the facilities have been completely closed, and sometimes they have been open in a collection library type. During 2020 the library was also employed by various projects, including the introduction of a new Alma library system. Alma has extended access to e-books and electronic magazines for library customers. This has been a good catch-up in modern times and has expanded access to the library. In 2020 the library and archive information service will operate in an almost normal way. The information service serves journalists, researchers and students, among others. In this time when the most diverse information is circulating, it is increasingly important that reliable information, facts, facts are as easily accessible as possible when needed. By offering these, the Library of Parliament carries out its important task as defined by law. It is worth further developing the functioning of the Parliamentary Library.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u252	Thank you. — And Mr Kiuru, Mr Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u253	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Aittakummu, for your good speech. Unfortunately, Mr Risikko, the chairman of the committee, has been prevented from doing so, but I would also like to thank him and the committee for this report. I must say that the library has received good feedback here, and that, of course, as chairman of the library's board, also warms me. Employees have also done good work during the corona period. The library provides basic services for legal information, social information and parliamentary information not only to the staff of this house but also to all citizens, journalists, officials, students and everyone who wants to use the library in general, and that information and service has also been available there in these exceptional times, and I hope this will continue to be the case. The Library of Parliament will be 150 next year. It is a significant start to valuable work. There is an organisational change pending in the library office, and it is a work of inquiry put in motion by the President of Parliament. It's moving in that background all the time, and I'm glad it's going in. The organisation's activities and possible overlaps and organisation of work are always worth critically looking at and how to do better with the same money, the same number of employees so that both the work is pleasant and the service providers, the customers, also receive the service in a flexible way. The committee has previously drawn attention and the library board has also drawn attention to the fact that, even if the organisation changes, it would be important that the library's name remain the same in the future, because it has a long history. And it would also be important for the library to remain open to users in the same way as it is at present. With these words nothing but a good continuation of the mission that is important to the Library of Parliament. Literacy and open knowledge are one of the pillars of this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u254	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Mr Tynkkynen, please give a presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u255	Mr President! We all share the general view that there is free trade in Finland. That is already guaranteed in our Constitution. In the same way, however, it is generally accepted that there is a need for certain common rules of play within which our country can operate. The rules of the Wild West do not fit Finnish society. The more detail these necessary rules are addressed, the more differences between the views of citizens and politicians are beginning to emerge. Often these can be very difficult to agree on. Growing regulation rarely attracts cheers across the whole party field. I would argue, however, that there is also a regulation for which there is greater support for citizens and parliamentary parties. They are also measures that could certainly be agreed upon. One such aspect is the correction of the lack of legislation on quick-lease companies. Many citizens expect Parliament and its 200 MPs to put limits on this exploitation, which is still allowed to continue. Mr President! We are an unsustainablely indebted society in which citizens are not only in debt but also in debt problems. In Finland, some 400,000 citizens have a default mark, and this has only been upward. From this point of view, speed levers can be regarded as a key element. The problems caused by the quick levers are widespread throughout society. They are affected both by the debt burden and by the people close to them. For example, quick levers are extremely treacherous from the point of view of those wrestling with gambling addiction. Based on the estimates of the Peliklin clinic, which provides help with gambling problems, the majority of its customers have financed their gambling with quick credit. So addiction is fed by the Vip firms. When you browse the web and the screen fill with flashing announcements about how easy credit is just minutes and a few mouse clicks away, it shows that something is very wrong. When the state company Posti’s website recently announced that I was moving, a financial offer on the screen for migration expenses showed the ugliness of the situation. The same website also provided a campaign code for a consumer credit company. With their advertising floods, quick-move companies are free to create a visual image of the leprechaun as solutions that make everyday life easier, and there is no information on the ethics of advertising. Yet it is allowed to continue. Mr President! In 2019, the Competition and Consumer Authority published a comprehensive study entitled ‘Quality and scope of problems in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises’. The financial and debt advisors interviewed saw the ease and speed of quick-lease advertising and access to credit as one of our main problems. These were found to have a clear impact on consumer over-indebtedness. The question is why the situation has not been corrected. So the need for change is obvious, but if anyone hesitates as to what should be done, you can look for a model of good international solutions right around us. In Norway, for example, in our neighbouring country, it has been decided to ban expressions referring to ease and speed of access to credit in the marketing of credits. In Denmark, however, a 48-hour cooling-off period is required for short-term credit. In Estonia, however, with the exception of mortgages or international credit cards, all advertising of credit on television or radio is prohibited. When you sit in a car in Finland listening to the radio or watching TV commercials, we offer you a wink after the wink. The sun shines in the background, quick loans are easy to get, and there is no concern about tomorrow. There is a huge ravine between the harsh reality of the quick levers and advertising, where many who take the levers are mistaken to enter. There has been some indication of the extent of quick-lean advertising as this subject has been addressed and sought out. As a result, a quick - paying commercial became full - scale on the computer screen and was reported to receive a lever even without credit information. Then, as you go into more detail about this flood of fast - moving commercials, you can see that these are the harmful marketing practices described above. They are rampant because they are effective from the point of view of quick-width companies. They are also being unleashed because they have not been controlled by politicians. Mr President! On the front page, when I went to the first company offering quick levers, the Vip was marketed, praising the ease and speed of the loan. As you look at the site even more, it turns out that the loan application has been calculated to take only five minutes and that you can submit loan applications in the middle of the night, for example. It is necessary that, in some form, the loan money should sometimes become topical for most of us. Various credits allow us to build our lives, for example, by means of a mortgage needed for a common home or, for example, by means of a car loan that makes it possible to travel to work. But are these extremely fast and easy high-interest loans from the pay-per-view companies the kind of credit that we, as a society, want to support? This is what we will do if we do not intervene. Such credits are not used to build life and its basic pillars. On the contrary, they may destroy many lives, crush these basic pillars and take homes and jobs away. It is sometimes heard that the activities of the Vippi Firms are defended on the grounds that the consumer himself decides to take the lever and is therefore also responsible for it. In fact, the person who took responsibility for the consequences before long bears a heavy burden himself. In addition, however, the consequences are borne by society as a whole. The stream of repeated levers often digs the gorge so deep that many end up throwing gloves at the counter. Moreover, it is morally very reprehensible if, as legislators, we watch as inactive, how, for example, gambling addicts are provided with funding to feed addiction at the time of need, and we are content to say that you yourself took the money. Society, its taxpayers and its citizens who are in trouble will all disappear in this expensive game. Mr President! Members of Parliament in turn call for action to be taken to curb the fast-track business and its disadvantages. Of course, every measure restricting the Vippi Carnival has been useful, but when we look at the continuing increase in debt problems, it is clear that we have not done enough. We allow the fast - selling business to get wild, and sometimes we go and pick up a single leaf until it grows back. After that, the vip rally and the party in the offices will be allowed to continue on the back of society. A number of measures and long-term work are therefore needed. For many, it is already too late, but all the more reason for action to be taken immediately in order to avoid these fates. Mr President! When, under the pretext of a few speculators ’ enrichment, a certain industry begins to produce enormous nausea in our society, then at some point as legislators it has failed. It is therefore inconceivable that we maintain an industry in this country where the plight of the citizens comes up over and over again. One thing has become exceptionally clear to Finns over the years: irresponsible pay-per-view companies will not bear either social responsibility or concern for the problems they cause citizens. It has become so clear that none of the legislating MPs should stand up straight and marvel at the rising debt problems. With this bill, I propose that it should be prohibited to rely on speed in the marketing of consumer credit, on the threshold for granting low credit or on an easy process of seeking credit or on easy access to credit. When a citizen becomes in need of a mortgage, loan money for a car or, for example, take up renovation money to repair the roof, he will certainly find a suitable bank without being told that applications can be sent in the middle of the night or that the application is told to be answered in minutes. From the point of view of rooftops or the housing store, the minutes are incidental, but these minutes can be extremely expensive for a citizen who goes on a friend cruise to a panic solution. At the same time, with this bill, I propose that funds in the form of consumer credit could only be transferred to the customer 48 hours after a positive credit decision. In this way, the VPs would not be able to exploit the weak position of a needy citizen. In times of need and impulse, decisions can be fatal to many citizens. We already have a law in force in Finland that limits access to consumer credit beyond nighttime. If you need credit in the middle of the night or in five minutes, it is less often a sign of a durable solution. The legislation should therefore respond to these problems. Credit advertising must be put on a more morally sustainable footing, as it is not at present. Politicians sometimes seem to have a desire to regulate things that do not need to be regulated. So you would think that the desire is also to be found in such entities where the new rules would serve the interests of society as a whole. At the moment, there are no necessary rules of the game and the pay-per-view companies show their thank-you cards to the politicians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u256	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u257	Mr President! Yes, Mr Tynkkynen emptied quite a bit of the workshop, because I have actually been wondering myself about the issue which makes it possible for us today to accept legal loan withdrawals in such a society. Almost the least that can be done is that such a high - rate quick lever could not be obtained ex tempore. That is why loan sharking has once been forbidden as dark lescats and so on, so that people do not stray at a weak moment, and it is these weak people who are now being exploited. As much as I have heard here about the defence of the disadvantaged and the defence of the disadvantaged, every day we hear dozens of times about how we should be on the side of the weaker, but this is not the case, not at all. I can't believe it. Sometimes it even comes to mind that someone has to pay someone not to make progress, because yet this is entirely behind the support of the entire people, and yet it seems that every representative, with whom we have any discussion of this matter, is in complete agreement. It is quite clear that we are human beings, especially young people, who do not necessarily always fund these things to the end. For himself for over a decade, the credit card nonsense of the youth of the max, when the brain was not really enough to do that. But it's totally unreasonable today. At least we had to pick up those cards and have jobs and there had to be something else that looked like everything else. They didn't just get them. I can imagine that if he had, my bills would have been even harder than they are now, because some kind of judgment and reasonableness was there. Let's really get this over with. We really do have people's support when this thing is put right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u258	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u259	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, Mr Tynkkys, for your valuable reflection. I looked at this in the Government's website at the Institute of Criminology and Legal Policy at the University of Helsinki at the end of last year, and it will end with the fact that over-indebtedness has increased in the last ten years with all the objective indicators used in the study. And then it is extremely important, when people are in a debt cycle, that there is no chance that loans will be made available on a whim and suddenly. I myself thought that I did not think very much of the situation that there was such a real situation that right now I needed money right here in one minute. If I get sick, I'm going to the hospital... Well, of course, I want to go to private and right now I don't have any money for some reason, but I don't usually have to pay the bill right now. And somehow I can't really think of the reasons why it should be available right away. We have been talking a lot about exclusion here in recent days and the fact that people are left on the edge of society may not want to be employed. This cycle of debt has the effect of not accepting work, and there are many other things: defaults, withdrawals — and then not all services when there are defaults. This is very important for us to raise these issues. And thank you, Sebastian. To Tynkkyse on a good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u260	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u261	Mr President! I listened to Tynkkysen's bill in the study, and I think Tynkkyne already said everything that might be involved. So this is a very good bill, and I myself have actually been thinking about it in terms of the situation where I would be quick to go. In fact, the only thing that comes to mind is that someone else has a company tax or something that has to be taken care of one day, then this could be the case. Unfortunately, however, there is a situation in Finland that an elderly person may even have to take food or medicine for a quick visit at the time of need. As a whole, I see that setting that 48-hour limit to get this kind of quick lever would eliminate all reckless and unnecessary use, and then it would not be used for having a weekend party or a trip or something. This is a very good bill and I can fully support it. I hope this will be a success here in Parliament. There is a lot of talk here about how we citizens are taken into account. This is one of the very impressive legislative initiatives which, in my opinion, affect the people as a whole, and I fully support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u262	Thank you. — And Mr Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u263	Mr President! Mr Tynkkynen's excellent speech can, in many respects, be echoed here as well. And I will read about this in your presentation, namely: ‘The changes in the law will have an effect on the fact that short-term firms are not able to use advertising and early-term credit decisions to make good debt or It is easy to agree with this. ‘The government has put forward a continuation of ‘In order to ensure The existence of restrictions is intended to continue until the end of However, the regulation of consumer credit is now being reformed, i.e. ‘the European Commission proposes new legislation to improve consumer protection in the EU. The aim is also to combat consumer over-indebtedness and to ensure the smooth functioning of the provision of consumer credit in the EU internal market." And here it is good that creditors and credit intermediaries should provide consumers with credit information at least one day before the consumer commits to a credit agreement. 48 hours isn't exactly going to happen, but at least that 24 hours is better than five minutes. It would also be new if, in addition to other material, creditors and credit intermediaries had to provide consumers with a one-page summary form that would provide basic information on credit. Mr President! This information can therefore be found on the Ministry of Justice’s website and can be consulted. I agree that there are really great financial difficulties for many people with quick-leases, and in general the person who has to take the expensive quick-lease will not get the cheaper loan, which means that his creditworthiness is often already weakened for one reason or another. So the damage caused by the quick levers is piling up for those who are already in a vulnerable position. Personally, I would be prepared to ban all short-lived payments by law, but at least this marketing and over-request can be tackled here together, and this is what the government has done. I also hope that the government will:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u264	Thank you. — And Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u265	Thank you, Mr President. In this closing statement, I would like to comment briefly on the comments made by the people who took part in this debate. First of all, thank you very much for the debate. As far as such quick needs are concerned, even if the entrepreneur, that today has to pay someone a certain payment of hundreds or even thousands of euros out of the way, then this bill does not in itself prevent it, if it really is the entrepreneur looking, as you will certainly see, the running fees, that the day after tomorrow is the situation that should be paid, but nothing is allowed, then it will be taken. So that's what's planned, so to speak. But this, instead, cuts off the sudden things like this, that now we have to get to play or now we have to get to the cruise. This bill would be cut off if it went through. And the same thing about the old people's food situation or something. This presupposes that we begin to live with such a more responsible use of money and that we eradicate precisely this kind of momentary, sudden thought that I am living beyond my means. As far as Mr Hänninen's speech is concerned, these are good things that you have just mentioned. So they're what the government's doing. Here, when I started to intervene in this whole indebtedness, I went over very carefully what the government is already doing and what it is not doing, and then I did in connection with it. You mentioned these very well, for example, when it comes to the issue of the interest rate. I was about to do it, but the government had already done it. As far as direct marketing is concerned, that is different. Direct marketing is what you do in phone sales, that you call your grandmothers or some middle-aged people, that you want this kind of phone subscription, that you leave now and this kind of benefits come on and like. In other words, direct marketing is different from the fact that even though our state-owned company Posti has an ad on its website, that when you move, then take a consumer credit from this, or anywhere else online. And as far as this 24-hour rule is concerned, I am actually presenting the 48 hours that it really is a genuine reflection. This 48-hour rule is already in force in Denmark. So let's go for the better. And, of course, thank you very much to your own people, who have signed this bill, but thank you very much for having here two MPs from outside the Finns Party who had signed this. They were satone and the Wallin tribe. I would like to express my special thanks to these representatives for coming from outside your party to support this initiative. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u266	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — Presentation, Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u267	Thank you, Mr President. In my bill, it is proposed to add a new sentence to the Criminal Code that a prisoner who fails to return to prison at the agreed time, e.g. on leave or leaves the area of an open institution, will also be convicted of eloping a prisoner. Under the current penal code, the regulation of the prisoner’s escape is problematic because it does not know the prisoner’s unauthorised exit from an open institution or a situation in which the prisoner fails to return, for example, from vacation back to prison. In the article for the escape of a prisoner, situations are listed in which the prisoner has been arrested, held in the custody of the authority or arrested or grounded for the purpose of the Military Discipline Act, and such person escapes or tries to escape from the penal institution or other detention facility in the custody of the person guarding, escorting or transporting him. A prisoner in an open institution or on leave may not be subject to supervision, for example, by not having an escort with him, thereby allowing the prisoners to receive, at the most, disciplinary punishment for unauthorized departure or non-return. These disciplinary sanctions mean that a prisoner can be transferred back to a closed prison, given a warning or restricted rights, for example by restricting the use of money or participation in leisure activities. However, disciplinary punishment cannot be considered sufficient in relation to this act or appropriate in order to prevent unauthorised departures. Unauthorised exit from an open institution or from a holiday is comparable to escape from prison, so the act must be condemned as a separate crime, as is the case with escape from prison. It cannot be the case, as we sometimes read in the papers, that we return from holiday when we get there, and so to speak, ‘partyonohi’ after a week and a half a week,and voluntarylyand self-decided when to terminate your leave. According to the information of the Criminal Sanctions Agency, the number of escapes or its attempts has, however, decreased over a period of 10 years. Statistics tell us that in order to prevent escapes, every escape is carefully analysed. In 2019, 6 prisoners escaped from closed facilities, which is therefore a punishable act of coercion, while 45 prisoners left the open institutions without authorisation. This is a pretty significant part. However, they have been granted a confidential status and status to be in an open institution or to be able to take leave. In addition to criminalising unauthorised exits in open institutions, more serious attention should be paid to the kind of prisoners that are being transferred to open institutions in general. The Criminal Sanctions Agency makes a risk assessment of the prisoners, assessing the previous use of the prisoner, intoxication, commitment to a training programme or similar. Above all, this is a comprehensive assessment. I believe that only those people who are not dangerous to others should be transferred to an open institution and that the actions for which the perpetrator has been convicted should be given priority. I therefore propose a new paragraph 2 in Chapter 16 of the Penal Code concerning the escape of a prisoner, and paragraph 2 would read as follows: ‘The detention of a prisoner who fails to return or leave the prison area at the agreed time’, and this is a penalty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u268	Thank you. — And Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u269	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Mer for an excellent legislative initiative. The bill is clearly lacking in our legislation and, therefore, it would be desirable if Mrs Meren's legislative initiative were to get this right. When you talk to citizens, there is often concern about how the punishments that are being condemned in Finland are minor in relation to the seriousness of the acts. From the point of view of the matter, the main problem is not necessarily on the penal scale of our legislation, but on the practical implementation of the penalties. In addition to emphasising the lighter end of the penalty scale, punishment is often carried out only half of this in prison. For the first time, even those who have committed crimes several times in reality are quite laxly classed as us. The increasing emphasis on the social aspects of prisoners has led to a situation where sentences are short and more and more prisoners are serving their sentences in an open institution. Holidays for prisoners are also standard practice. Mr President! It is no wonder, then, that, after all these things, the public will have an image of a lax system. Punishments are short, they do not need to be completed, and the method of execution is something other than the idea of a traditional prison sentence. If you add to this equation that you can not return from vacations or that you can leave an open facility without permission, it will further undermine your belief in our system. It cannot be that disciplinary action is at most the result of these. In practice, it is a question of running away and it should be punished accordingly. I support Mrs Meren's initiative in order to reduce the number of unauthorized absences of prisoners in the future. It would also be important to correct this in order to restore the public's faith in our system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u270	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u271	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, Congressman. For Tynkkyse's support of my bill. We have many shortcomings in the criminal justice system that I myself would like to change. One, of course, is the punishment for sexual offences, and the other is the question of measuring the penalty. But first of all, it is precisely this who is in open institutions, how many murders and other serious homicides have been committed. They have gained a special position of trust and abuse this and do not return from vacation. I find it very strange that there is no penal code for this. I hope this goes well. I can say that if the Finns of Finland were in the government, things of this kind would be things we would like to tighten up because these kinds of things do not fit into the citizens' sense of justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u272	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u273	Thank you, Mr President. The purpose of my bill is to amend the Act on Income Support so that child benefit is accepted as a preferential income when granting income support. Consequently, it is not taken into account as income. This is the third time I've made a bill like this. So I have done this all the time in the parliamentary term when I have been given the job of a representative of Parliament. At present, therefore, the big problem is that the most vulnerable families receiving income support do not actually benefit from child supplements. This violates the idea of a universal benefit that everyone receives regardless of income or wealth. The objective of my bill is shared, among other things, by many children’s organisations. For example, I agree with the Confederation of Child Welfare that supporting families with children through income support is not a sustainable solution. Above all, we need to improve the level of other benefits, such as child supplements. However, just as children’s organisations say, the increase in child supplements does not benefit the poorest families, because child allowances are deducted from income support. As part of the preparation of the strategy for children, a working group, which examines and analyses the effects of corona on families with children, recommended correcting the post-disability of child supplements. This group of top experts in child policy also recommended that the relationship between child benefit and income support should be adjusted so that the increase in child supplements would also improve the situation of families receiving income support. Addressing the poverty of families with children is now of paramount importance. It was a major problem in Finland even before the corona period, but the pandemic that struck in spring 2020 has accelerated family inequality in a fierce way. It has raised problems even further as the problems caused by the interest rate have hit particularly hard on those families that had already experienced major difficulties in the past. If we do not act decisively on development, the interest rate will increase the long-term distribution of children to those who are doing badly and those who are doing well. In the Children's Voice survey of Save the Children, 57% of children in low-income families were concerned about their livelihoods and 6% of children in well-paid families. The same survey found that the year of the corona has particularly affected the well-being of children from low income families and children from gender and sexual minorities. Addressing the poverty of families with children must therefore be one of our main objectives in the post-coronation of the corona, and here child benefits and their development are essential. Mr President! What we are talking about here is, above all, the right of the child to an adequate income. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and a number of other human rights conventions require that adequate living standards be guaranteed for the child and for the child’s development. That is also what our own constitution requires. Sufficient or inadequate income in childhood has far-reaching consequences, since childhood is a period of time with long-term effects. Studies clearly show that early childhood poverty is linked to low education, low incomes and various health and well-being problems, including in adulthood. Overgenerationally disadvantaged is a phenomenon that we should talk much more about in this Chamber. In the face of that, we must not give up. In over a generation, income support has its place in the underprivileged. In studies, parents’ income support customership has been found to be linked to the poverty risk and well-being of children in adulthood. An extensive follow-up study revealed that as many as half of young people born in 1987 in Finland who had received psychiatric diagnosis came from families where parents had received income support. We therefore have clear evidence that it is these families who need more support when we want to break the chain of overgenerational incompetence and prevent new births. Mr President! In addition, it is intolerable for the equality of families that these most vulnerable families do not in practice receive their child allowances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u274	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u275	Mr President! Indeed, a bill must be taken into account, and I would see no reason why such a bill should not go through. Of course I'm here for the first time so I can't tell you why. It would be nice to hear that if such a bill has even had to be taken three times by a representative of the government party, what is now the stumbling block? If I were to get used to this, I would not even see it as a very large cost item, because, so to speak, this is only going to be a small part, those who are going to have such a small income that it would have a direct effect on them. Well, I don't know. At least personally I am in favour of this bill, and if I were in a decisive body, I would certainly be in favour of it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u276	Thank you. — and the representative Up the hill, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u277	Mr President! Congressman Hänninen has made a bill, and in this presentation you told it that way, say, with a broad hand. I have not been able to get to know it properly, but you have mentioned the word ‘overgeneration’and that this family needs support,and this may well be the case. I have been following a few cases of child protection, and unfortunately it seems that, although that mother and family and children are dear, such overgenerational misdemeanor may even act as a motivator in the custody of children. Thank you for this bill. I will take a closer look at whether this will answer these very problems which I personally have encountered during this summer. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u278	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u279	Mr President! Thank you for your initiative. The Korona period has further choked the conditions of families with children, and according to the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare, about 55,000 new families have faced scarcity due to the corona crisis. In Finland, 14 per cent of minors lived in poverty in 2020, which means about 150,000 children. In other words, we need to look for ways of supporting these most vulnerable families with the most fragile financial status. Basic income has been the model that the Greens have driven so that such incentive traps would not be born either, but when its progression does not seem to be very fast, then yes these patching up methods must be sought.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u280	Thank you. — And Mr Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u281	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you for the discussions that have taken place and for the good speeches that have been made, and I am glad that the representatives want to get to know my initiative better. Indeed, this is the third time I have renewed this initiative. In the past, child benefit was a privileged income, but then, for savings reasons, these articles of income support have been changed. And in that sense, of course, it would be desirable to make some kind of progress here for these families, who are in the most vulnerable and currently unfair position from the point of view of equality, let alone in the light of other research results. We should be able to remedy this problem together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u282	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Hänninen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-15-ps-97.u283	Thank you, Mr President. It is rare that two legislative initiatives are in the referral debate on the same evening, but this is also possible because of the corona. As I have just discussed, this bill also deals with the very important issue of benefits for families with children and its development, i.e. child benefit. In my initiative, I propose that the Child Welfare Act be amended so that child benefit is paid until the end of the month in which the child turns 18. At present, the problem is that child benefit is paid only until the end of the month when the child turns 17. The end of child supplements to the age of 17 is, in many ways, problematic and contradictory. For example, an important Convention on Human Rights (the Convention on the Rights of the Child) is based on the fact that a child refers to every person under the age of 18, unless, under applicable laws, the adult age is reached earlier. Why, then, does the payment of child supplements stop a year earlier? According to the law, the child’s right to maintenance from his parents also ends when he turns 18. According to the law, parents are also responsible for the costs of the child’s education after the child’s 18th birthday if it is considered reasonable. This is right and must be the case, but the payment of child supplements should also be in line with this. Just now, when I presented my second legislative initiative on the mismatch between child supplements and income support, I talked a lot about something important to me, namely tackling the poverty of families with children. The payment of child allowances up to the age of 18 would also make it easier for families with low incomes and families with multiple children in particular, but also in many other families the child’s expenses are at their highest level on the threshold of adulthood. Fortunately, this stage of life has just come to a great relief when the government carried out a free second degree. This is a truly great act of equality. Thank you again for that, in this context too. Mr President! According to the Family Barometer published by the Family Federation in 2018, the extension of child supplements to 18 years of age receives strong support from Finns. One third of women considered such a reform to be very important and two thirds rather important. For men, the corresponding proportions were one-fifth and one-half. The same barometer examined the importance of various family policy measures for Finns. After increasing flexibility, the survey valued current transfers and support for poor families with children as the next most important measure. Thus, Finns are concerned about the poverty of families with children, which is a fine expression of solidarity. In the autumn of 2017, the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare conducted an attitude survey to explain how MPs, political influences and civil servants dealing with matters related to children and families react to current issues concerning families. When asked whether child benefit should be paid until the child’s 18th birthday, 58 percent said yes, 32 percent opposed, and 10 percent could not say yes. The development of child supplements is one of the most concrete and important ways of tackling child poverty. And indeed, as I said in the presentation of my legislative initiative before today, tackling child poverty is one of the most important aspects of post-corona care. Childhood is a fleeting phase of life, and children have no time to wait. We must act immediately to prevent the negative effects of poverty up to adulthood. Mr President! Child benefits are an administratively light form of support, so they can be developed with solutions to reduce family poverty without increasing red tape. It is also of economic importance. The development of child supplements as proposed in the bill will strengthen domestic purchasing power and employment. It should also be noted that, as the real value of child supplements falls, poor families will have to rely on that last form of support, i.e. income support. This is not a sustainable solution. Finally, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who have signed my legislative initiative. - Thank you.
