ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 36/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. With the support of Kaisa Juuso Petri Huru in the general debate, it has proposed that the legal proposals contained in the objection be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 33/2021 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. Let us move on to the sectional vote. I propose that proposals and support be made by a parliamentary group at a time. I also propose that any corrections to the Minutes be made only after the whole section has been voted on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u3	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 26. We have a lot of votes and amendments here, so I would also ask the authors of the proposals to move on fairly calmly in order to keep up with what the amendments have been tabled on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u4	Timo Heinonen's proposal 16, Antero Laukkanen's proposal 18 and Ville Vähämäki's proposal 19 relate to the same appropriation, so the vote on Ville Vähämäki's proposal 19 against Antero Laukkanen's proposal 18 and then against Timo Heinonen's proposal 16. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u5	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 27.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u6	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 28.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u7	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 30.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u8	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u9	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2021. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 33.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u10	Mr Junnila's proposal 17 and Mr Räsänen's proposal 19 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u11	Timo Heinonen's proposal 27 and Päivi Räsänen's proposal 29 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u12	Mr Räsänen's proposal 30 and Mr Junnila's proposal 74 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u13	The sitting will be adjourned and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u14	Ladies and gentlemen. We still have work to do, even though we were hoping for Christmas. I would indeed ask those representatives who do not remain in this debate in the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to leave this Chamber quietly. We shall now proceed to the third item of the order of business. Presentation of Section 32 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. At this stage, a maximum of 2 hours shall be reserved for the general discussion in the section. — The debate is opened by the section president, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u15	Mr President! So it is the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and, as you can see, I am not a representative of Savio, but I am filling in for him at his request because he was unable to attend this sitting today. If you look at this section, the operating expenditure of the Employment and Economic Development Offices is EUR 267.7 million, where one of the biggest reforms is the implementation of the Nordic labour model, to which EUR 70 million is allocated, and this comes through the recovery efforts, i.e. RRF funding. The aim of this model is to change the direction of Finnish labour market policy from passive to more active, like other Nordic countries, and to increase personal contacts, among other things. The committee welcomes this because it believes that individual support will help people to find employment. The Committee also believes that these local employment trials, which have taken off with the corona, have good practices and innovations, and they should be brought together and ensured that these good practices are spread more widely. In order to promote labour migration, the government has allocated a total of EUR 2.7 million to the operating expenses of TE Offices and Business Finland and to the development of digitalisation, and the committee sees this as a good trend, as it aims to speed up work permit processes. The Committee also considers it important to improve the equivalence of these qualifications and to increase opportunities for further training for immigrants in order to facilitate the entry of professionals. In general, the committee considers it important that Finland should be an attractive place for foreigners coming here who want to come to work, and that our education, services and atmosphere should be in order to be able to cope with this global competition. Well, then the operating expenditure of the Innovation Centre Business Finland will be allocated EUR 108.8 million, most of which goes through Business Finland to innovation and investment promotion, to business internationalisation services and then to project and programme activities. The committee is in favour of this reform because innovation and investment are key growth paths for promoting exports. 14.8 million are being proposed to promote tourism to Finland, and the committee considers this to be an important issue and points out that, once the pandemic is freed, this tourism will not rise, but will have to work decisively. Then, if you look at the development of digitalisation, you will be allocated EUR 32.9 million, and that too comes from this RRF funding. The committee attaches great importance to this use of digitalisation. Then we also believe that this TE-digit project, in which the whole system of TE-services is being reformed, can provide better services and can also affect the matching of the workforce. The committee added EUR 1 million to those who promote a sustainable growth policy, which is about entrepreneurship projects and then about promoting exports and the circular economy. Reform and low carbon: the committee has taken the view that this is of course something to be welcomed, and the committee stresses that Finland should pursue an enabling environment in this reform and create incentives, invest and reform, and we should increase research and development and be pioneers in this, because it can also become growth and exports for us. EUR 475.6 million and EUR 572.5 million have been allocated to research, development and innovation activities, and here too some come from within the RRF. It is important for future economic growth and productivity growth that we can invest more in R & D funding than we do today. Energy aid also emerged and is also part of the EU's recovery tool. The aid will encourage investment in new technologies and improve energy efficiency. Then there is this, which also came up in the speech just now, namely these charging and refueling points for transport electricity and gas, and there will be more resources. Then I would like to draw attention here to the position on integration in which the committee considers it important to invest in integration and to say that the funding itself has been reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u16	And now, Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u17	Mr President! Thank you to the parliamentary committee, in particular the Section for Economic and Monetary Affairs of the Committee on Finance, for the excellent preparation of the budget for 2022 during the autumn. The Committee on Finance has allocated EUR 40 million to the items it considers important. Of these, nearly EUR 1.4 million is allocated to the main category of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Thank you for these targeted additions. In 22 years we will continue to build a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. We have been tested by the Koronapandem, and right now the disease situation seems to be worrying again. We must therefore continue to take decisive steps to tackle the pandemic. At the end of the year, it can be said that we have done very well, both from the economic point of view and, therefore, from the point of view of employment. Government measures have supported both business activity and employment development, building trust and faith in the future. These measures have had a significant impact on the positive development of the economy and employment. Over the remainder of the year, employment has developed favourably. At the end of October, there were 259,000 unemployed job seekers at TE Offices and in municipal trials. This is 50,000 less than a year ago. The direction is correct and the outlook is more positive than one year ago. We are well on track towards a 75% employment rate. Through our efforts to improve employment, we have supported this development. At the same time, the number of job vacancies in the labour market has increased and many sectors and businesses are suffering from labour shortages. In October, there were nearly 70,000 more vacancies than one year ago. Similarly, the number of long-term unemployed has continued to grow. These are the things we will be paying attention to and we have already drawn attention to. Thus, employment growth will be supported in particular by improving the services of jobseekers to the Nordic level and improving the availability of labour. The year 22 will be the year of reforms. Through the Nordic Employment Service model, job seekers will receive more services and support in the early stages of unemployment. According to the studies, it is the regular encounters of the job seeker, the active placement and the follow-up of the job seeker that shorten the periods of unemployment. Better support for jobseekers will be possible with additional resources, which will be EUR 70 million for the Employment and Economic Development Offices next year. Through the new model of employment services, we will reach, with time, about 9,500 additional employees according to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance. In the future, we will actively provide job seekers with more individualised services and support while investing in the development of digital services. Through the Labour Market Market Square, which opens up through digital services, we will be able to significantly improve the match between employers and jobseekers. I am sure that the renewal of the digital employment platform will support employers in finding the right talent. The conditions for business growth will also be strengthened by easier recruitment of international experts. The amendment to the foreign law, which was discussed during the autumn, will also give us a D visa. It enables the accelerated entry process of specialist experts and growth entrepreneurs as well as their family members. Otherwise, we will also invest in improving the process of work-related immigration in next year's budget, including by investing in the digitalisation of the Finnish Immigration Service and improving services and communication for foreign experts, including through the Work in Finland structure. We started the municipal trials this year at the beginning of March. A lot of good work has been done in the experiments. Of course, the change in the operating culture and recruitment problems have been reflected in the start-up of this activity, but it has always gone for the better. Through local government experiments, we map the path through which the role of municipalities as providers of employment services will be strengthened, and the experiment will give us a lot of lessons on how to build a new operating model. [The President knocks ] We gave it to Parliament in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u18	Thank you. — Minister Lintilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u19	Mr President! First of all, I would like to apologise to the representatives: I have to leave a little earlier because there is a 50th anniversary of Finlandiatalo on the other side of the Mannerheimintie, and there will be a speech waiting. I'll run out of here with my hair piped up there then.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u22	Thank you. — Now we are entering the stage of debatability, and I would ask those representatives who wish to make a reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button. — — — — Congressman Aino-Kaisa Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The management of employment is at the heart of the budget. The management of government employment has been a success. At the beginning of the period, the target was set high and many doubted whether the government would achieve its objective, but it can now be said that employment has already exceeded the pre-pandemic level and is still rising. This budget once again contains a number of decisions to strengthen employment. Among other things, the recruitment support trial has received a positive reception across party boundaries, and the aim of the experiment is to lower the threshold for hiring the first employee. The resources of TE services will be strengthened by the introduction of the Nordic model of employment services and the promotion of work-related immigration. In order to promote the employment of people capable of part-time work, there is Tehokangas Oy, of which Minister Haatainen also mentioned. This proposal did not fit in with this budget — or had time — but the committee will deal with it immediately for the beginning of the spring season, and the government will then take this funding into account later, will it not?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u24	Thank you. —RepresentativeGrahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u25	Mr President! In Finland, the debt mountain has grown and income and expenditure are chronically unbalanced. The government has promised employment reforms that will strengthen public finances. Now, however, we have read the Minister's statements, which may be a little understated, and there is no such clear view. Can you promise us in Parliament that there will be reforms? Finland desperately needs them. Then, on this sustainable growth, on which Minister Lintilä has already successfully opened up the debate. In Finland, the delays in sustainable growth include our licensing system, which is slow and multi-generational, as well as the availability of skilled labour and poor productivity development at the moment. After all, the parliamentary group was now building a path there towards a 4% target, but this requires action from the government. Can you promise me, Minister, that the government will commit itself to the path of the parliamentary group to build research and innovation in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u26	Thank you. — Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u27	Mr President! Thank you, Ministers Lintilä and Haatainen for these sectional presentations. The advantage of Finland and Finns is that we have the highest employment rate possible, entrepreneurs believe in tomorrow and investments are made widely throughout Finland — and the government has worked hard on these. Next year we will be able to move forward with this Nordic model of employment services, and the recruitment experiment for entrepreneurs will also start in March and the entrepreneurship strategy has been prepared. In addition, the reform of wage subsidies and measures to support the employment of people over the age of 55 are in preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u28	Congressman Kosonen, Hanna, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u29	Mr President! In Finland, we have great potential for increasing wind energy. It can be a truly significant form of energy in the future and even a key to energy exports in the form of hydrogen energy. We really need a lot more wind power and, of course, in such a way that local people are well taken into account in the construction process. Wind power can lead us into zero-emission energy and in a truly energy-free direction, and even as an energy exporter. Contrary to what is thought, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces are not obstacles to wind power building, but the most important obstacle is slow licensing processes. And I would have asked Minister Lintilä how these could be smoothed out, but in a way all residents
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u30	Congressman Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u31	Mr President! Much has now been said here about the impact on employability and the impact on employment, and I would like to mention the active model of the second, where the impact on employment should be 9,500 people in 2025. I would like to ask you what it will be for when it comes into force next spring and then it will take three years for the effects to come into effect. Is there any similarity to this retirement plan, which the government has agreed on and which has an employment impact of more than 10,000 people and which, through the active model, puts these older people on a minimum wage to do temporary work? Is there any similarity here that the active model now brings an older working population in the pension pipeline to work? Is this what this is about? Could the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u32	Congressman Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u33	Mr President! Minister Lintilä, we have been working on a specific power shortage for the last few weeks, and unfortunately this situation may be repeated in different forms in the coming years. The main question is that we can quickly increase the emission-free energy production in Finland. This is where Mr Kosonen referred to the great potential of wind power and, in particular, it would be coming as quickly as the permit can be obtained. Mr Lintilä, I would now like to ask you, in concrete terms, why have you accepted in the government that we are going to be more difficult and not smooth? In connection with the environmental impact assessment, we will have a new right of appeal for the building permit, which the wind power industry predicts will postpone several projects over the years. Why have you accepted last year that the guarantee period under the EU directive will be minimal for us and not so much as for other countries? And are you also going to accept the right to appeal in the ransom law?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u34	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u35	Mr President! This committee report has stated that research is the most important factor in our productivity and competitiveness. Similarly, we have taken the view that, for example, the creative sectors still have significant growth potential in Finland. It is good that Finland's business structure is diversifying, and we have found good examples of this, how knowledge-based and research-based business activities are growing and collecting funding and it is a really good opportunity for Finland to continue to maintain this welfare state. I would have asked how this change in the focus of the industrial structure is reflected in the changes in the focus of the TEM. Have you assessed, for example, how our economy is affected by investments in research? If we invested 100 million more in research, what economic effects would this have for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u37	Tack, ärade talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka regeringen för dess sysselsättningsåtgärder: nordiska modellen, kommunförsöken och mycket you give som har nämnts rai i dag. Below is sätt som har målsättningen att öka arbetskraften i Finland behövs. Därför är det också viktigt att vi tittar på byråkratin kring utländsk arbetskraft och att vi också ser till att de som kommer hit på andra grunder än för att arbeta så snabbt som möjligt kommer i arbete.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u38	Mr President! In that Section for Employment and the Economy, we have certainly been pleased that the introduction of that Nordic model is progressing, but on the other hand we have also raised the concerns that have already been expressed in the field about these challenges of municipal experimentation. In other words, labour policy statements have been delayed at the moment — there are people there who are not really able to receive any support. I would have asked the Minister: What is the current situation? It has been explained that there have been many people who have not done these things before and who have no experience, and so on. What is the current situation, how can this model be implemented flexibly? The second question relates to this Working Channel Ltd. When it was dealt with here in the Chamber, I asked the question whether there might be some legal problems when making such decisions by the authorities. It was said at the time that this would not be the case, but obviously it is. And then there's another one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u39	Congressman Berg, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u40	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for achieving or achieving all its employment objectives during this term of government. By mid-term, the government has done about the same amount of employment measures as the previous government. The fact that the government does not contribute to the very objectives of the opposition, such as the disciplining of the unemployed by reducing unemployment security, does not mean that structural measures that increase employment and strengthen public finances have not also been taken. An example of this is the extension of compulsory education and the gradual abolition of the pension line. On the other hand, the Coalition Party requires measures which, even according to the VM's calculations, do not have an impact on employment. An example of this is the promotion of local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u41	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u42	Mr President! The price of fuel is becoming a brake for employment in our country. In the past, the job seeker had to weigh the profitability of the job if the requirement was to purchase his own car and cover the costs. Now we are in a situation where even those who already have a car and a job have to think about the reasonableness of working. Does it make sense to drive to work every morning when the amount left behind after taxes and fuel costs leads to subsidies? At the same time as talking about passing lanes for foreign labour, the lanes of our roads are threatening to be emptied of commuters. It is said that there is no labour force in the EU, so it is necessary to have experts from beyond the oceans. However, it is unnecessary to go beyond the sea to fish. In reality, even in a neighboring city, workers could be found if work is made more profitable again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u43	Thank you. — Representative Pirttäähti, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u44	Mr President! The real situation is challenging: we have high unemployment, but we also have high employment rates, on the other hand we have labour shortages, so that in this respect, of course, thanks to the government for these measures. The Nordic operating model, and then the same kind of municipal experiment, is what it is: hopefully we can make those changes there in time so that we can move on to that centrality of the municipality. There are many good projects here, such as these projects to get foreign knowledge into the country. We have this Work in Finland and then these Talent Explorer projects, and hopefully they will also have some power. I would have asked you about this part of Migri. Did this change, then, administratively, that this more skilled entry comes to the TEM side? Then about that battery cluster and these investments — thank you for that, Finland is certainly an attractive country, once we have achieved these here, we will continue with the same model. Actually, on this side, I would like to ask about this cost support. What will be the readiness for this next year, if this is needed? [President : Thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u45	Thank you. — Congressman Sankelo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u46	Mr President! Energy issues are always topical. I was looking at today’s consumption in Finland: 11600 megawatts, of which the share of own production is about 10,000, so at the moment we are doing reasonably well on our own, so to speak, when the frosts have given up a little. What I notice, and I'm sure many people will notice, is the share of nuclear power, which in Finland today is almost a third of its own production. Well, there has been talk of taxonomy issues here in Parliament. Last time, more emphasis has been placed on this aspect of forestry. However, the large battery is linked to nuclear power and to what these funding criteria and overriding criteria for nuclear power will look like in the future in the European energy field. I would like to ask the Minister: what is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u47	Congressman Virta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u48	Mr President! I disagree with what Mr Tynkkysen has just said, because Finland needs work-related immigration. Even if we have all the potential within the borders of this country at the moment, it will not be enough, given our demographic trends. It is therefore important for the government to take these measures it has promised to promote work-related immigration, and it is good that this D visa is finally introduced, which will facilitate the entry of labour into Finland. This is particularly important in the areas of labour shortages and the key and growth sectors of research, development and innovation. Students and researchers, entrepreneurs and investors also have an important place in Finland for the acquisition of relevant specialist experts. It is also a good thing to create this two-week fastband. So thank the government for these decisions. However, there are also many people who have moved to Finland after a Finnish spouse, for example, and they would be very anxious to work here. I would like to ask the ministers whether the D-Visa may be extended to the spouses of Finnish citizens, for example, in order to enable them to take advantage of their potential in our labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u50	Congressman Wrist, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u51	Mr President! There are currently a large number of adults in the employment services, whose place is certainly not there yet. In addition, the situation in families with children, early childhood education, comprehensive school and child welfare is very serious. The pipeline from homes to schools to working life is quite worrying, and now there are more and more young people in employment services who are unable to work — and adults of different ages. Should we not focus primarily on the fact that this new organisation will not become the new social organisation that it is now unfortunately starting to look like? One solution to the shortage of labour would also be that we would have better able, healthy Finnish people in the future to respond to the shortage of labour. Now we have a huge problem with the fact that there are people there who have not received help in time. Now we're gonna come up with all the trick-jobs, and no resource supplement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u52	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u53	Mr President! Now that the Minister is busy with something other than being here, the first question I address to you is that we are in a green transition, and now we should take advantage of that opportunity and potential. I would like to take this opportunity to express a little sympathy for the fact that the assembly has brought up this perniciousness of the licensing system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u54	Thank you. — Mr Matias Mäkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u55	Mr President! The management of the pandemic has long been the most important employment and growth policy, and the results are also excellent: production returned to pre-emergence levels in the summer, and in employment we are on track to achieve our goals. After the crisis, however, and now, we must look specifically at growth policy, at attracting investment and, in particular, at the development of research, development and innovation policy in order to generate investment. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: what means do you see that we would have in Finland to improve our competitiveness in these international investments in research, development and innovation? From the point of view of Tki, but in fact, it is important for companies to be predictable, because we have long-term solutions. At the moment, perhaps the greatest uncertainty is caused by changes in energy prices throughout Europe. How would you see that, in terms of energy prices, predictability could be increased in Finland and, on the other hand, how could we also support domestic production in such a way that it would serve industry better?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u56	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u57	Mr President! During the last period, the Taipalee model procedure was followed by the retirement of those who were unemployed, fulfilling certain conditions, who were no longer eligible for employment. My question is: has such a model been considered by the government, which would be very human and would bring those people out of it who do not belong there? On the other hand, I would like to ask: in the education system we obviously have something very wrong when we have such a high level of unemployment and labour shortages at the same time. Do you have any plans for the education system to really be searched out now so that the Finnish unemployed can get into these jobs and do not need to acquire labour from abroad because of many problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u59	Tack, ärade talman! These include representatives Myllykoski, Mykkänen and Mäkynen. It was great to see — now we were talking about RD — how the technology industry said that theirs, whether, 57 of their member companies had to put 10.5 billion into use over the coming decades, at the same time as this RD report was now out. This is an excellent example of how the public and private sectors can jointly develop Finland. And we also have many good examples of how, in terms of battery strategy and otherwise, public authorities have been genuinely booing. After all, the world doesn't work the way the market does it. It does it somehow. And many companies' research efforts are easy to do elsewhere than in Finland, unless the state is strategically involved in promoting these issues, and so that the companies here invest more in RD and also in attracting others. The easiest way to strengthen those here is, of course, this kind of system level of joint development. How this could be even more encouraged and promoted,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u60	Thank you. — I will give one more reply, then the Ministers will reply, and then the debate will continue. — Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u61	Mr President! The biggest thing at the moment is the shortage of labour. I think the minister was talking about 70,000 job vacancies. The EK has said that 80% of companies experience recruitment problems. It is an obstacle to economic growth, but it is already a major problem in terms of access to services, particularly in health care, but also in many services. The government deserves thanks for having implemented the active model two and the D-Visa. They are the right measures, but they are inadequate. It would now be worth introducing the proposal for a differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefit in the alternative budget of the Assembly, so that this incentive can be readjusted and thus speeded up the completion of these jobs. And then, in this work-related immigration, apart from the fact that specialists are now able to get here more quickly, they should be able to get the usual workforce more quickly. The whole world is competing for labor. We should do it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u62	Thank you. — And Minister Lintilä, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u63	Mr President! Quick coverage: In fact, there were more than one of these licensing systems — a very central issue at the moment. We are in a worse situation than the competitor countries here. We now have the latest of what has been done on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, additional resources, making this accelerated fast track, but I personally believe that we should still get into the law exactly the maximum time of the year for the processing of permits and thereby get this moving forward. This example of Harjavalta is certainly a good example of it. Grahn-Laasonen also asked about his commitment to Tki. We have a relatively good situation at the moment on our ministry's side of RD funding. We can do what the parliamentary agreement has now been reached, and I think it was excellent that it was obtained because it is long-term. Representative Taimela asked about the conditions for the interest-bearing. In practice, we have taken up the reservations that have been made for corona subsidies. I think there's about 20 million left in there. If there are new ones, we will have to make new decisions, pick up new money from somewhere, and that means cutting out others, because these come from inside the spending limits. These are not interest-bearing costs, but are the actions that come from within the framework. That's why it's so hard. Well, Mr Mykkänen also asked about this authorisation, and Holopainen asked about the impact of the study — absolutely one of the key issues. Yes, there is currently a fight on the world market on that side, and in general in this sector the change that will take place — yes, we have such an industrial fourth revolution going on. Representative Essayah, change of ownership: We are currently developing junior loans in Finnvera, from 100,000 to 200,000. We have quite a lot of what the representative has to say. Sipilä worked in terms of domestic ownership. Congressman Pirttähti asked about the battery cluster. This week, the last good success, the Hamina factory, and these are still coming, I could say straight away. Sankelo asked about taxonomy. The Commission has announced that it will be known this year, but it has not heard what the situation is. We'll take it from there. Myllykoski really asked about this green transition. Congratulations, Harjavalta. Today, an energy decision was taken by the Government, 26 million for the hydrogen project in Harjavalta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u66	Thank you. — Minister Haatainen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u67	Mr President! Thank you for those contributions. Mr Pekonen, as Chairman of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, raised this issue with Mr Työchannela Oy. Parliament is going through this now. Mr Essayah also asked about this. So the opinion of the Constitutional Committee is now the one you have asked for, and Parliament will take the time it needs to do so. This is now cut off from the budget. And, of course, the funding comes as if it had been in this budget. It is clear that it will be verified. Why this is happening now in the parliamentary stage is always the case. When preparing for office, it has been seen that this can be done with this model, but, of course, the Constitutional Committee is the last place in which these constitutional legal issues will then be assessed and, of course, they will go. Mr Grahn-Laasonen was concerned about the government's commitment to employment policy and objectives. That is one of the central elements of the government's economic policy and has been hard-working and far-reaching in its decisions: 80,000 more people employed, decisions taken. There are a huge number of decisions from different sectors, including under my own section, in particular this Nordic Employment Service model, the Recruitment Experiment and then this Work Channel Oy is central to them this time, but in the past we have also done and we will. The transfer of services to municipalities will continue in the future, and further steps will be sought. Mr Lehto then asked about the link between the pension pipeline and the Nordic model of employment services. These are both separate issues, but of course this Nordic employment service model also helps older people to find employment. Both contribute to the strengthening of employment. As far as the elderly are concerned, there are these softening elements, such as wage subsidies. Mr Norrback asked if there was any relief for these older people over the age of 60. This tax solution for those aged over 60, which was mentioned in this Question Time by Minister of Finance Saarikko, is what the Ministry of Finance explains. Representative Pirttilahti raised this question from the Finnish Immigration Service. Now, about two years ago, at the beginning of the year two years ago, this immigration from work and study was transferred to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and we set up our own immigration unit there. Then we'll do Migri's results together with the Ministry of the Interior. That's where the warrants are. The D visa was asked by Mr Virta if it would come to the spouses later. It also applies to spouses, this "D" visa. Mr Ranne then pointed out that these unemployed job seekers have a lot of people with multiple problems. That is how I understood your question. And yes, in the case of young people, through these cabs, we have also added such different kinds of support, such as psychological support, that such short-term therapies can be reached. There is help and support for many: access to education and so on, low-threshold assistance, and that cab operation has been impressive, especially for young people. Mr Kankaanniemi asked about this education system and its role, and should we not get people who live here to work? That is what employment policy is doing, and I fully agree with you that education and training are essential here. This is where we've forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u68	Thank you. — I note that it is time for Minister Lintilä to leave by 6:10 p.m.,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u69	Honorable Mr. Speaker! The government has now taken seriously the improvement of the operating conditions of industry. Several solutions have been sought outside the Government Programme for the new industry across Finland. We can talk about an industrial billion when we add together the impact of solutions over a number of years. The industrial electricity tax has been reduced to a minimum in the EU and support for electrification is still being introduced. Fairway charges have been reduced, double depreciation until the end of 2025. In addition, Finland’s sustainable growth programme supports the green transition of industry in many ways. This highlighted nuclear power, Olkiluoto three, which will soon be plugged into the network. Finland’s largest climate action — 1600 megawatts produce electricity. I would like to ask: How is Pyhäjoki and Fennovoima's Hanhikivi nuclear power project, is there still room for one nuclear power plant in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u70	Thank you. — Mr Eskelinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u71	Mr President! Employment is developing well and is at a higher level than it has been in years. It is a great thing that this budget, too, also invests in RD spending, and of course the work of the parliamentary working group is behind this. Companies currently have a high level of confidence and a high level of willingness to invest, as investment news from industry has almost been heard almost weekly in recent weeks. It is great that we also have here on the RR and RRF side tools for revitalising and, in particular, innovation and investment support. But mainly to Minister Lintilä before he leaves: both are largely to support the green transition. Do we also have sufficient resources to provide traditional investment support? Everyone in this Chamber is now talking about labour shortages, and Minister Hatainen is mainly asking whether these are fast tools,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u72	Thank you. — Mr Slunga-Poutsalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u73	Mr President! We will certainly all be happy with every unemployed person who can get a job — whether he or she can get a job in the public or private sector. But if we look at this whole from the point of view of the carrying capacity of society, it seems that we have now increased a great deal of jobs in the public sector, and we would need more for tax revenues and exports to the private sector. I had to check the number of job vacancies at the moment: 12790 full-time, more than 12 months of paid work. Only 12,000 seats. So how do we get more jobs on the private side? This is the fact that the energy tax on industry has been set at the EU minimum, which has been presented by the Finns of Finland for many years, is one way to go there, but where we can get more
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u74	Thank you. — Mr Kalli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u75	Mr President! Indeed, from the outset, we should thank the government and Minister Lintilä for this very recent decision taken today on the planned green hydrogen project in Harjavalta. It is an excellent example of what opportunities the green transition offers Finland, and it is hoped that this aid decision will enable us to hear about the actual investment news as soon as possible. Of course, in order for the green transition to become a reality, many things must come to pass, and we must ensure that the environment remains attractive. There's been a lot of talk about a warrant. I would also like to thank Minister Lintilä for the work he has done on it. I hope it goes forward within the government. But the support is also important. How is industrial electrification aid? How is the preparation going, and at what point can we expect a proposal here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u76	Thank you. — Mr Brushanne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u77	Mr President! As many others have pointed out here, energy, zero-emission electricity and heat is a prerequisite for our green transition and for our sustainable development. It must not become a bottleneck when we stop the use of fossil energy, we are cut off from it. It involves wind power, which has been mentioned, and then it involves nuclear power, which has been mentioned. After all, today STUK gave permission to start the Olkiluoto 3 reactor — it is, of course, a joyous news. Perhaps Olkiluoto 3 also tells us that nuclear power is not always the fastest and cheapest. But the development of small modular reactors in the world is very interesting. This is research and development in France, the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States, including here in Finland. Minister Lintilä has mentioned that the overall reform of nuclear energy legislation will take its time — that is certainly the case. Great, if it could be speeded up, but I would have asked if, while the law was being developed and reformed,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u78	Congressman Salmonkoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u79	Mr President! As Mr Mäkynen said, we have just finished the work of the parliamentary research group. Thank you for your cooperation. In this connection, he wondered about the price of energy. I myself will ask from the point of view of households. The opposition has tried to impose higher energy prices on the government, even though it is an increase in world market prices. The result is, of course, an increase in transmission prices due to the absurd privatisations of the electricity transmission monopoly, which should be brought under control. It would therefore also be useful to clarify the responsibility of electricity companies in the current situation. The aggressive marketing of market electricity exposed to price changes to consumers is questionable, especially if the contractual terms have not been clearly communicated. I should like to ask Minister Lintilä: is the government going to instruct electricity companies trading on exchanges of electricity to change their behaviour? Should customers also have the right to terminate an expensive fixed-term electricity exchange agreement without a two-week exchange period?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u80	Thank you. — Mr Mäkinen Riitta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u81	Thank you, Mr President. For my part, I would like to express my warm thanks to Mr Mäky and the members of the whole parliamentary RD team for the fine work that has been done this autumn. It was excellent that, at the end of the day, the work was completed and that the law on the public contribution was introduced so that the level would indeed be raised to 1.3% by 30 C.E. Mr Strand has made an excellent speech here. He has already mentioned the exit of the technology industry today in response to this end of the working group. But I myself wonder whether the investment of the technology industry alone is sufficient. What other active measures are currently planned, and what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that other sectors of industry and industry also take part in these efforts?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u82	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u83	Mr President! I was delighted that Minister Lintilä raised the issue of a processing guarantee. According to business estimates, we have more than EUR 3 billion of different investments just waiting for permission. Actually, the question is that when this kind of handling guarantee would be possible. I am concerned because, as Mr Mykkänen pointed out in his previous speech, the government has increased these complaints and is going to increase them further; that is, one hand does not know what the other is doing. Would you, in the government, now coordinate this and promise Parliament to bring forward proposals that will allow for a maximum of one year's processing time for large investments? Mr Harjanne gave a very good speech in which he raised the issue of legislation enabling small nuclear reactors. I hope that this would be another matter in which the government would move forward quickly, making Finland a country where the introduction of new technologies would be possible, because we will need fast more emission-free domestic electricity even after Olkiluoto three.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u84	Thank you. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u85	President! The availability of skilled labour both at home and abroad is a challenge. Of course, the decisions in the budget regarding attracting foreign experts and fluent licensing practices are important. We also have a entry in the Government Programme: ‘Students are granted a residence permit for a full degree, and after graduation they will be held for two years. “ I should like to ask Minister Hatainen: what is the government's plan to extend the residence permit for international students and the job-seeking permit, or, for example, the possibility for doctoral researchers who are already highly qualified and their family members to have a stronger residence permit?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u86	Thank you. — Representative Lehto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u87	Mr President! Here in the government budget book it says that ensuring affordable access to energy is one of the foundations for economic growth. This should also be remembered by the government when making tax decisions that affordable energy is needed. Well, the other thing is, as has been said in the government circles, that the green transition also takes jobs, and then when you look at that VATT research, it says that the green recovery takes money and is slow. Well, now we get our own money from the recovery fund at a high interest rate, which then makes a green recovery. It won't last long. That we should do little to plan whether we need to make such a tight green transition, faster than the rest of Europe. The second thing we will get money from the recovery fund is the EUR 70 million active model for action number two, and it has been said that it is not enough. If the Nordic model would require more than 200 million, I will ask the minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u88	Thank you. — Mr Malm, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u89	Mr President! When it comes to productivity and competitiveness, it is of course worth remembering the central part of work there too. Productivity guarantees the strengthening of the economy, but the guarantee of productivity is to stay at work. Its productivity is always produced by man. That is why I am very concerned about what to pay for when you are exhausted and are on long sick leave, when you work overtime on behalf of your co-workers, or what to pay if you are on disability pension. I would like to ask the government: how does the government intend to influence the division of labour so that productivity and competitiveness can be realised in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u90	Thank you. — Mr Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u94	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u95	Mr President! The poor employment of immigrants conceals the contradiction that is linked to the wider debate on immigration. The Greens want to close their eyes and ears to the facts, and as a result we repeatedly hear illogical proposals for solutions. Although statistics show lower employment among immigrants, immigration is presented as the only solution to labour shortages. The more evidence we get of the poor success of integration, the more people want to spend money on it. The less people from abroad adapt to the demands of Finnish working life, the more demands will be made for lower standards. We need to wake up to this downward spiral. By counting the bar or shoveling money, these problems are getting worse. — At the same time, the answer to Mrs Virra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u96	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u97	Mr President! Then let us talk about those who are already in the country and about the spouses that Mr Virta raised here. Approximately 150,000 working-age women of foreign background live in Finland. Just under half, 43 per cent, have a degree in higher education, which is significantly higher than the level of education of men born in Finland. However, the employment rate for women with foreign background is only 55%. One in two takes 15 years to get the first job. This is primarily a Finnish phenomenon. We also do little compared to the other Nordic countries. Increasing the employment rate of women with foreign background to the level of women with Finnish background to 72% would mean 25,000 new jobs. The Committee on Finance stresses these sufficient resources for integration training. At the moment, it is not possible to get there — not to do badly there. Similarly, the funding of centres of excellence should continue and this number of foreign-language speakers should be taken into account in the funding of employment services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u98	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u99	Mr President! New jobs are created in companies. When we create an inspiring outlook for companies, we need a view of skilled, entrepreneurial employees. We need entrepreneurship education, which is an issue that unites administrative sectors. Thank you for receiving funds from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy's section Christmas gift money for Kanta-Häme youth entrepreneurship education, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for 4H activities and the Ministry of Education and Culture for the Youth Entrepreneurship programme and the expansion of Business Village activities. Finland also needs new entrepreneurs for the generation of companies. Too many companies don't have a successor. At the same time, there are still areas where too many people have been trained, as Mr Filatov said. I very much hope that entrepreneurship education will be part of continuous learning, and so I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u100	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u101	Mr President! I'll take over from this labour shortage theme. Mr Lintilä is right in saying that this is a global problem, but it must be understood that these labour markets are also changing, that is to say, the need for high-level skills and, on the one hand, the need to increase the level of work to be carried out, but on the other hand, the level of university work in between is decreasing, and that is a global problem. If you look at the labour market in the United States, for example, you are now in a situation where many service companies have simply had to reduce their opening hours, because there is no labour market, even though wages have been raised by several dollars an hour, but because other sectors are able to pay even better and social security has also been increased, the equation has become that the service sector does not want to have people. I fear that Finland will soon be in a situation other than health care, that the level of service will start to decline if we do not get more of this labour force from home and abroad. My question is: what is the government going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u102	Thank you. — I will give you two more answers, and then we will go to the ministers' replies and then we will go to the list of speakers. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u103	Mr President! Success in integrating immigrants is one of the key factors in strengthening our economy. In addition to language training, many immigrants need to develop or update their professional skills in order to be employed and integrated. The centres of excellence set up by cities have been an important opening-up to integration policy. The Centres have succeeded in creating effective services for large numbers of customers. The mapping and development of competence, language training and support for job search are carried out on a customer-oriented basis. The funding search for centres of excellence has been secured for next year, but after that the situation will be open. According to the Government Programme, the centre of expertise activities will be strengthened. My question to the Minister is: how is it to be ensured that these effective employment services for immigrants can be secured?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u104	Thank you. — And Mr Mäkynen, Mr Matias, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u105	Mr President! In a recent question to the Minister, I asked about the electricity price in industry, but in August of this year a new electricity market law came into force, which next year will lead to a drop of up to ten euros in electricity transmission prices for consumers over a year or a month. I would ask that when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also called for further work on the calculation of these electricity transmission prices, how is it? Is the task force set up, and is there a legislative process going on? In the course of the work of this parliamentary task force for research and development, there were also a number of practical issues that should be developed, particularly the strengthening of cooperation between universities and businesses, to which we are now receiving a tax reduction. What other means could there be? On the other hand, the entry into the market of innovation, scaling, was highlighted. What means does the Minister see that we can find to improve these?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u106	Thank you. — First Minister Lintilä, 4 minutes, and then Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u107	Mr President! First of all, the representative Mr Kettunen asked about our other nuclear projects, namely, in practice, Hanhikivi. Indeed, as I said, Olkiluoto three now comes into critical condition in January, is connected to the network in February and should be in full production in June. Hanhikivi is in the construction phase, or at the point where we expect a request for a building permit from them in my ministry, an application, and that is what they are doing at the moment. In practice, it is a very technical decision if it is in such a state with all the criteria that it will be authorised. Mr Kalli asked — and here are others — about this green transition. This is definitely the biggest investment initiative at the moment, absolutely. If you have looked at the situation in Sweden, there is an investment of EUR 100 billion in northern Sweden, i.e. EUR 100 billion, not SEK. I claim that about 90% of the 100 billion is a green transition. The companies I visit tell me about investment projects that are practically a green transition, that is, there is a circular economy, there are energy-related issues and so on. This is going all over the world. I am a little surprised that some people want to be in four- limb braking in this situation when, however, we have a certain amount of open bananas where the investments come from.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u110	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u212	Congressman Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u214	Minister Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u321	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u337	Mr President! It is quite true that, in these times, we should consider how kind we have been, and this is a question that each of us should ask himself. But we also need a touch of magic at Christmas, and, Mr Purra, the opposition has enough imagination for Santa Claus to fly with reindeer. It's not like Santa Claus's coming out of the fuel will get caught, even though we share our common concern about the high price of gas. Here, too, Santa has found a climate-proof solution. [Laughter] Mr President! Whatever it is, let the Christmas spirit come to Purra, the Parliament groups of the Finns Party, the Coalition Party and all the opposition parliamentary parties, as well as the parliamentary groups of the Government. May Santa bring in his bags, although unfortunately there may be no bags of money, lots of Christmas peace and good cheer, and may the whole Finnish people find a lucky almond in Christmas porridge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-16-ps-153.u338	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry (MmVM 20/2021 vp), the agreement between the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Norway on the extension of the fishing rule and then the draft law at second reading is decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry (MmVM 20/2021 vp).
