ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate. Congressman Marttinen, Matias.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u2	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, the stock savings account has become a hugely popular form of investment in recent years. The number of stock savers has already risen to nearly one million in Finland, and nearly two and a half hundred thousand equity savings accounts have already been opened. Therefore, it is justified and important that the government has proposed certain changes to these comparisons, but at the same time as the government proposal was brought into this house, it would also have been justified to further dismantle restrictions and regulation related to the equity savings account. In this respect, together with the Christian Democrats in the Committee on Budgets, we have raised objections to proposals for statements that the government should immediately start preparing amendments to the law, such as the regulation of the number of accounts and the cap on the deposit of the account, which would be completely abolished, because, Mr President, the equity savings account is currently the only investment vehicle with such artificial restrictions. In other words, very wealthy investors are quite free to invest their money as they wish, but in the case of ordinary small investors who put 200 euros a month into that account and want to invest for their future, and even if for their retirement, very long-term, as we know, young people in particular have gone on to make this long-term investment, it is still the small investors' investment through the equity savings account that is limited in law. We do not see any justification for this in any way. Secondly, Madam President, we have also pointed out in the motion for a statement that the government should start preparing for the so-called The Sipilä Group's proposal to introduce this new-born equity savings account in the future. Thus, in practice, a deposit would be made for each new-born equity savings account, which could also encourage this long-term investment. I think that this proposal from the Sipilä Group was excellent and I would like the government to begin to implement it. Madam Speaker! So, briefly: So we need to go together to see even more comprehensively how this position of ordinary retail investors can be strengthened in Finland. It is of great importance to our country as a whole and to the economy as a whole, and I see and believe that there is also a very large majority in this Chamber to make wider reforms and changes to the legislation on equity savings accounts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u3	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u4	Madam President! Mr Marttinen spoke well and I support his proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u5	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u6	Madam President! I must say that I have had a lot of discussions with Mr Marttinen on this issue and also on the same lines. Yes, in the longer term, we are encouraged by the kind of national capitalism, and the experience of this with regard to equity savings accounts has inspired young people, but also women: it has been seen that women have not yet been enthusiastic about investing, and this has also increased considerably. In other words, I hope — and I think there will be the next government to reform investment and also the tax procedure for these — that we will go in such a direction as to encourage popular capitalism, investment and ownership. And I must thank the government for the fact that it is a good thing that these metaphors are now being corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u7	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u8	Thank you, honourable Speaker! I am submitting a proposal for a statement under protest 1 which is along the same lines as the one suggested above, among other things, by the Coalition Party, that changes be made to the equity savings account in such a way that this top is raised, for example, up to 100,000. That's all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u9	Congressman Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u10	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal for the correction of the veracities is justified. Representative Marttinen gave an excellent speech on the wider development needs of the equity savings account. More than 200,000 equity savings accounts opened indicate that the share savings account has been a big success story. It has attracted special interest in young people and has also inspired women into the world of stock saving. We are experiencing many positive developments, including a growing interest in the responsibility of investing — the trend of responsible investment is now under way — and this stock savings account has certainly attracted that particular interest on the low threshold to become a small investor, and that is how national capitalism is progressing. Our goals and wishes here in Parliament should be that we have an increasingly economical and knowledgeable young age group, and therefore, as an example of an innovative proposal in Sipilä's domestic ownership programme, a new-born equity savings account would be a very welcome proposal. Like Mr Ovaska, I do not see any reason why the next government should take these steps, but the present government could very well bring these proposals to Parliament and they could receive broad support here. In other words, promoting national capitalism and ensuring that Finns become prosperous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u11	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u12	Mr President! I support Mrs Vähämäki's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u13	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u14	Mr President! I would also like to support the presentations made by Mr Marttinen. Mr Grahn-Laasonen also gave a very important speech on how important it is to us in Finland that these equity savings accounts are being developed. One of the things I have been thinking about myself and about which I have spoken to experts is how, through this, we can also get money for unlisted companies. In fact, updating the daily value of the company's share is the question of what the experts should agree on, so that unlisted companies could also be included in national capitalism through the equity savings account. But it is very good that the government is going to develop this and hopefully this will not be the end of the process, but will go forward in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u15	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u16	Madam President! The Government's proposal to amend the lottery law is poorly prepared, unclear, contradictory and ineffective. Furthermore, it is incomprehensible that the package was taken through as an urgent budget law. The objective of reforming the lottery law, in particular in order to improve the prevention and reduction of the harm caused by gambling, must be supported, but the proposal also proposes that legal changes be made which do not in any way contribute to achieving this objective. Some of the changes seem to have been made so that something can be said to have been done. The call for automation to be placed in such a way that they can be controlled, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, without being seen, is absurd. Accessible control and business operations without a visual connection to the machines are not simultaneous in a large number of outlets, as there is simply no place in small business spaces where machines can be hidden from the eye. We therefore suggested that the implementation of unhindered controls should be a primary regulation guiding the principle of placement. Furthermore, the anti-fraud measures required by the proposal do not work, as several experts consulted by the committee said. In Norway, for example, where barriers to payment transactions have been in use for a long time, the number of gambling, including gambling abroad, has increased significantly. At the same time, gambling problems have increased and payment methods have moved away from operators authorised by financial supervision outside Europe to third parties who are not supervised by any European financial supervision body. The experts consulted by the committee therefore considered it likely that in Finland, too, anti-payments would lead to a transfer of payments outside the control of the authorities. The protest of the Finns of Peru will address other problems of the motion and propose changes. Two statements on our proposal, one on the prevention and treatment of gambling problems and the other on the too low loss limits, were finally adopted as unanimous statements by the committee. Instead, the other two remained in our objection. In the first place, we are calling for measures to be taken to transfer cash dispensers to gambling halls from large trading units in cities. The second statement deals with the questionable entity on which this whole cage, with its political and economic interests, is based. We call on the government to act in such a way that the beneficiaries of gambling profits are transferred to the budgetary spending limits procedure and that funding is allocated to those who are genuinely useful to society. Mr President! Therefore, I will make a proposal for a change of reasoning and statements based on the objections of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u17	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u18	Madam President! This government proposal for a new lottery law is, in many ways, somewhat the worst possible. In fact, it almost does not respond at all to the main problems that our gambling system is currently facing. The main cause of gambling problems in Finland is also, specifically, slot machines placed in windboxes, but in practice the government is making only cosmetic changes, which will not solve the problem in any way, even in a significant way. Another key problem with our gambling system is the fate link between gambling returns and the beneficiaries who benefit from them in many ways, creating unhealthy incentives. The government is not dealing with this central problem of our gambling system either. On the other hand, the government has put forward a proposal which seeks to curb freedom mainly on the Internet, but in no essential way succeeds. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs as such was awake and found the central problem of the protection of assets in the form of the safeguards presented and stated that, as far as the repatriation of profits or funds deposited in a gambling account is concerned, the protection of assets guaranteed by the Constitution prevents the imposition of the kind of blocking of payment transactions proposed by the government. It would have been consistent with the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Administrative Committee would have removed the ban on money transfers from the bill as a whole, but unfortunately the government parties had no will to do this. Hopefully, in this regard, the next government will want to make the necessary corrections when, as Mr Purrak has already said, there has been no evidence of any problems with the game or of any lessening effect on gambling. In fact, the results of the studies from Norway show the opposite. However, when we have to move forward and the amendments to the articles have already been voted on last week, we should give the government sufficient guidelines on how to proceed. In this way, I shall make five motions for statements in response to protest No 2 of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u19	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u20	Mr President! First of all, I support the proposals made by Mr Purra. I must say that when I was in committee on this law, at the very least, I now lost faith in this entire lottery law and gambling system. It is the case that, when this law has been abused in the Ministry, the majority of the contributors have been beneficiaries of the proceeds of Veikkaus. It is quite clear that this whole issue will then become blurred and conflicts of interest will come into such legislation in a way that cannot be acceptable. It is now the case that the whole system is designed to prevent gambling losses, but in fact this law does not take any effective action to prevent them. It seems that the main reason for this is that at the same time we want to keep to the profits that the beneficiaries receive. Now, from what I have heard, I think that at some point this system needs to be corrected. The lottery law should purely care for the regulation of gambling in this country, and Veikkaus and its profits should be a completely different issue. After all, if you look at what all these profits are used for, it will inevitably come to mind at times whether they are of general interest, what kind of activities money is given to year after year, and whether they are really what is to be paid for these winnings. Now, as I see it, the third sector has traditionally been a voluntary sector, operates on membership fees and works on donations, but for some reason we have, at some point, been wound up in such a way that, in fact, these Veikkaus revenues and the public sector finance this activity. This cannot make any sense, especially when it is not a matter of public interest. In the previous speeches, the problem of these block payments was well addressed, among other things, which are not really useful on the basis of expert advice. However, as Mr Rydman's speech indicated, the government parties were not prepared to correct this. I myself wish at this point that perhaps the next government will correct this system and this lottery law as they should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u21	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u22	Mr President! Firstly, I support the proposals made by Mr Rydman. This amendment to the lottery law, which has been tabled by the government, is somewhat wrong. First of all, this proposal does not contain any impact assessment for this current system of gambling and an alternative system of exclusive rights. This proposal has not examined at all whether the objectives set for the gambling system in Finland — including reducing gambling harm — could be achieved by an alternative system that would lessen the scope of freedom of business, for example. In other words, there is a complete lack of such an examination of the options. Secondly, the absurdity of this proposal is that the stated aim is indeed to reduce the risk of gambling, but this proposal does not remove the issue which is most likely to cause gambling problems, i.e. the dislocation of slot machines, and does not transfer these machines to the arcades. This fact that slot machines are the main source of gambling problems, problem gambling, is quite clear from the expert opinions received by the Administrative Committee. On the other hand, this proposal restricts something that has not been shown in the study to prevent the emergence of harmful gambling, i.e. to create barriers to payment transactions and thus, in principle, to restrict the freedom of the Internet in a problematic way. On the one hand, barriers to payment transport cause a whole host of other problems, i.e. they are, first of all, very expensive, as has been pointed out in the expert opinions received by the Administrative Committee, and therefore ineffective, but they also cause an increase in the risk of money laundering, because, as a result of these inhibitions, payment services are transferred to institutions and operators which are not necessarily subject to the regulation of money laundering in Finland and necessarily even in the EU. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Bank of Finland has also been very critical in its opinion on these obstacles to payment services. These draft statements by the Assembly would help to improve the system in a more rational way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u23	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u24	Madam President! Mr Rydman has already presented an objection to the Assembly, and I would like to make a specific comment on it, which would require the government to take immediate action to promote the diversification of funding channels for associations, organisations and other bodies engaged in the work of general interest and self-financing. This is a very important issue. In this connection, Mr Kauunto has already taken a legislative initiative in which he proposed extending the donation reductions of the community and the natural person in such a way as to promote, among other things, the diversification of funding channels for associations, organisations and others engaged in public works, as defined in the lottery law, and the voluntary collection of funds, which suffer from the fall in the yield of Veikkaus. Regrettably, the government has not taken up this good bill, but I hope that this objection by the Assembly will go through.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u25	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u26	Madam President! In 2016, when this law was reformed, the Administrative Committee already stated that there is far too much urgency for this whole reform. We have now learned nothing from this: a new presentation has been brought in in a hurry again. Unfortunately, as has been said here, these key objectives have not been met. Mr Pelkonen raised a very important, interesting issue here, which has been mentioned in this Chamber during the last period and in the previous period and in the previous period, and that is precisely how we can get the associations of general interest and those who donate to them in some way within the scope of tax reductions so that this benefit comes directly to these associations. In time, when President Martti Ahtisaari presented this reform through his own working group, he stated in that final report that this could easily produce 50,000 jobs. I do not think that any government should fail to use such a door, which is held open. This is an opportunity widely used around the world for a certain number of associations to be donated in a year, and if its purpose is to be socially significant, then to be entitled to tax deductions. This issue should now be taken into closer consideration, not approached as a matter of principle as a bad thing, but seen as a truly important factor in employment. Well, now there is a particular reason why these legislative reforms relating to gambling, all of them, have ignored the way in which this loss of income is finally being made available to the organisations of general interest. This parliamentary group, which is currently considering this, also seems to be in a very interesting position. We will see whether there will be a result in which we will actually be able to reform and bring peace to the organisations so that they can anticipate their own activities within the framework that they know that their funding is more than one year secure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u27	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u28	Mr President! Looks like there's a real maneuver going on here on the political right. For the first reading of the law, I prepared for something that I did not say out loud at the time. I looked through the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which states that these changes are necessary. In summary, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy said: ‘This is a step in the right direction. “ The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which I am a member, made two rather significant amendments to this lottery law, but, in general, it is also appropriate that a great deal was seen in this direction, and it also considers this lottery law to be necessary and appropriate. Unfortunately, in my view, the political right is now very much overshooting. I would have liked it if I knew that there were a lot of very fresh people among them, that you would have looked at the results of the Economic Survey on Friday last week, under the heading ‘The incidence of money problems has fallen’. This survey has been conducted since 2017 one to three times a year, this year for interest rate reasons only once. And surprise hi: Last time the survey was conducted a year ago in November, when this rate was 2.6 per cent. Now it had fallen to 1.8%. Of course, for many reasons, the interest rate also has a significant role to play, since, among other things, slot machines were also out of service for a long time, but it certainly has an impact on these set limits, which players can set themselves, by mandatory authentication and by the fact that the number of slot machines has been halved. So, ladies and gentlemen, a small dose of honesty is now involved in this debate. Seriously, however, this lottery law is a very important reform, which also includes new innovations: that Veikkaus can introduce this new business, which is business-to-business, and which also develops the development of his own games, certainly responsibility ahead. In addition, these blockages, which have now been criticised by the right here — let me quote from the Administrative Committee: ‘The Management Committee considers that the prevention of payment traffic can be achieved without worrying about the possibility of circumventing them. The introduction of barriers can be estimated to increase the awareness of players that they target unregulated activities under the lottery law, which are also not controlled by national authorities. It can also be estimated that barriers to payment services will raise the threshold for gambling by gambling companies outside the exclusive system.’ Is the political right not at all concerned that some EUR 400 million is being played out of Finland? Profits go to tax havens, problems remain in Finland. That's why this system we're now moving into... Let me say this again for the sake of the review: Unauthorised gambling activities are generally restricted in 21 European countries. Money transfers to unauthorised gambling sites can also be widely combated in the Netherlands, Greece, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. Yes, we are looking for the right solutions, and I would like to stress that the starting point is to limit the number of gambling problems, but also to maintain the capacity of the bet. The 700 million to 800 million which, in the future, can also be allocated to major purposes — culture, science, art, youth — is important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u29	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u30	Mr President! This government proposal for a lottery law is very important and, as a reform, I consider this to be a success. It is precisely the right steps forward, as Mr Gustafsson said earlier. But at the heart of everything is the fight against gambling disadvantages. When we know that gambling poses both social and economic problems and challenges for Finns, this reform is now starting to tackle this issue. That is why I consider this criticism of this timetable by the opposition to be somewhat unusual, since we should not have time to waste in trying to help prevent gambling from becoming a problem. Now it is precisely this step forward in this fight against the disadvantages of gambling. As the Committee on Administrative Affairs states in this report, the monopoly is not in itself the problem; it is the monopoly system that allows, in other words, to tackle the problems of gambling. And, as Mr Gustafsson said earlier, breaking up the gambling monopoly would mean moving away from this activity to companies that pay their profits to tax havens, and the question is, of course, very critical of this monopoly system: are you even on the side of the fight against the problems of gambling, or are you ideologically against this monopoly system of gambling? This is the question that you should be able to answer in this Chamber too. Gambling is not leaving this world, this society, because we are removing the bet. That, too, seems to me to be a fact. Mr President! This government proposal brings mandatory identification to all forms of gambling and Veikkaus games. It is an important step forward and, in addition, restricts the advertising of Veikkaus. In addition, with good cooperation in the Administrative Committee, we adopted a statement on these loss limits, which were found to be excessively high, and we hope that the government will now, at the level of the regulation, adopt these loss limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u31	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u32	Madam President! The problem of gambling is a disease that should be taken seriously, and it is not worth building a right-wing-left-political setting, although perhaps some may have the enthusiasm to mislead the matter itself from the actual substance of the matter to some kind of political ideology twisting. At the same time, of course, it is necessary to wonder that, if, as should be seen, the social problem of gambling problems is so serious that solutions should be sought regardless of ideology, then sometimes there is a slight feeling that, for ideological reasons, a monopoly system is defended, regardless of the outcome of the monopoly system in practice. Of course, gambling is not a button trade that could operate without regulation, and it does not work anywhere in the world without regulation. In Western societies, in some way, all have quite a significant relegation of the way gambling can legally be played. It is easy to agree with Mr Heinäluoma, for example, that gambling will by no means stop by significantly tightening up the position of Veikkaus or making the legislative framework significantly tense. Nor will the problem of gambling end with a monopoly system of this kind. If it were as it has been claimed from that left that an exclusive system would allow us to deal with gambling problems specifically, it would then seem rather strange against this background, which is why there is an internationally significant gambling problem in Finland. In fact, the fact that we have national games so aggressively marketed by the national gaming company has contributed to creating that culture, which is why so many Finns are currently struggling with gambling problems. What is essential is to understand that, even if we have a system of exclusive rights formally, there is actually no such system of exclusive rights in the digital environment. It may be subject to different payment restrictions and others, but the material examined does not prove that these are likely to reduce gambling problems. In fact, the results of the research even point in the opposite direction. It would then be relevant to ask whether this system of ours is still one that meets the challenges of our time, and would it be more sensible to reform the system as long as it is still renewable before Veikkaus has lost its significant market share somewhere else?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u33	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u34	Madam President! It is a good thing that this lottery law is being amended and that it is precisely in the direction that people with gambling problems want to be genuinely affected. I am a little surprised at the speeches that are trying to find a solution to the problem of freeing up this competition as if it were going to stop. That would blow things up a whole new dimension. So, in this Finnish system, where Veikkaus Oy manages these jobs — and has done so well — above all, the benefits that are available in a reasonable way will be for the benefit of the Finns. Now, if we release this situation, which is the only euro that flows into tax havens and Finland will be left with only disadvantages — nothing but disadvantages. In other words, I would like to see some realism here, ladies and gentlemen. There has also been talk of Internet freedom. We all know what freedom of the Internet today is: anyone who wants to do something there that is not in accordance with good manners or laws — it succeeds. You can order drugs there and everything, and it certainly works in ways that we parliamentarians cannot even imagine. However, it is important to consider this gambling management in Finland as a monopoly and so that Finland also benefits from it and remains under some sort of control. It's true this Internet world is crawling all over the place. It offers new, new opportunities to circumvent the laws, and someone will probably win in it if you play somewhere, but then you have to remember the saddest option that it is a very small part that can be won there. There 99% of the people lose their money and lose their grip on life, and then they are the targets of various care measures in our society. Is that right, too? It is good that these laws are being reformed. This Finnish system is good. True, it cannot be compared to the fact that if we freed the situation, we would achieve a better situation. At least that's not something anyone can think seriously about. Certainly, if it is released, it will get so out of hand that no one will be able to catch it once it has gotten out of hand. That we go on like this every now and then, changing these laws and clarifying this job, making it work with as little harm as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u35	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u36	Mr President! Just as Mr Rydman has just said, even though we are here in Finland. Betting has been a market leader to a very large extent, yet we still have disadvantages of this magnitude, as we do. They are all in that expert report, and it must be said that there is also the research that shows that slot machines are one of the most addictive things to be done here than cosmetic changes. I can’t help but think of what’s more important: preventing gambling harm or making profits. I'm sure this is where this is going to fight. However, I find it extraordinary that, if we think about what I have just said, that when this law was being drafted, the majority of the authors of the opinion have been beneficiaries, then it is quite clear that they do not see the point that the revenue of the bet will collapse because they know that it will have a direct impact on their income as well. Here is the problem that when there are too many hands to ask for, then these sensible measures will not be achieved. We should get rid of this, and then perhaps it will be corrected by the fact that these revenues come here in the budget. I personally believe that, at this point, we should also look at the field, the field of organisation, so that the operators of real public interest continue there, and for those who are not operators of general interest, we must see whether this is a matter which is to be financed through the budget. As far as these payment blocks are concerned, we did see more of a problem with the fact that there is no researched information about them, that they are working, and, as Mr Rydman said here, it is rather the opposite. Instead, this system is very expensive and transfers money to those under whom, in terms of terrorism and money laundering, among other things, we may lose money out of reach, and I think it is a problem of some sort in the Finnish system. That is how we are going forward, and perhaps even this law will be amended further in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u37	Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome the fact that it is precisely the role of Veikkaus that is being strengthened and at the same time that these measures are being taken to reduce gambling problems. This kind of compulsory identification is a very good thing, because then it brings limits to playing, and it is also good for the individual, that in a way that machine reminds you of maintaining the limits of playing. We all need to remember that gambling has been practiced throughout the centuries and will continue to be sure to play, because it has been one way for people to get money or lose money. That is why, in my opinion, under supervision, this will reduce the problems of gambling losses and also reduce the desire to do an illegal gambling business and thereby lose money. I think that this reform is all right and necessary in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u39	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u40	Madam President! This reform is necessary, as Mr Gustafsson quoted from the various statements made by the various committees: it is precisely this right-hand approach and the fact that it is, however, well identified and highlighted here, and it is recognised that the problem of gambling is dependent, and that is what we must definitely focus on. Of course, it is also important to hear about those beneficiaries who are, as it were, dependent on the profits of gambling, but the balance must be clear that we will have to go ahead and work on solving the problems then, if we can, hopefully, bring this more to the point where the problem of gambling is at the heart of the problem, which must be backed up by the support system. I do welcome the monopoly system at this stage, because we need tax resources to deal with the problems of gambling. In that sense, when we are unable to deny people gambling, it is good to note that we need those tax revenues. However, I do not believe that if there was no monopoly, there could be targeted tax revenue from gambling. There are different systems, and confrontation alone is not fruitful, but we should look at the whole system. At this point, I think it is very important that we have this monopoly and that tax revenue can come. By the way, someone arranges this gambling, and I do not know how it can be arranged in a controlled way so that we can then also support those with gambling problems. And I know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u41	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u42	It is easy to agree with Mrs Myllykoski that when the gambling system is being reformed or genuinely reformed — this draft lottery bill, after all, is not so much new now — then, quite specifically, problem gambling and the prevention of gambling problems should be at the heart of the whole thinking and reform. But then it is good to ask the question, which is why this Finnish model has at least not been very successful in preventing gambling problems. In fact, there is good reason to argue that it has even been specifically capable of generating a variety of gambling problems. Compared to Europe, there is a very high level of problem gambling in Finland, and it is hardly surprising because the domestic exclusive system has been explicitly based on a very strong, aggressive gambling marketing and the provision of gambling to people in almost every possible place throughout society. Little wonder, then, that people who are susceptible to gambling have been exposed to it at a very early stage. At the same time, it should also be understood that even in countries without an exclusive system, gambling is not the wild west. Not at all, because in all Western societies it has been considered that gambling is an area of life with many potential problems of such importance that gambling must be sought and regulated in one way or another. In fact, in many countries there is much stricter regulation than there has been in Finland, no matter how much such a system of exclusive rights has been in place. At the same time, we need to understand that we no longer have a return to a time where it was possible to determine at national level what kind of services, games or others can be used, but that the network has led, in any case, to good and bad, to cross-border services and all kinds of possibilities also passing. The responsible legislator should take the facts as facts and then consider what is truly the most effective and sensible way to organise matters within the context of the facts in which we live. There is no way the Internet can be reached, there is no way that money transfers can be blocked. This proposal can, of course, channel transfers of money into the hands of those who are far more critical ethically and economically, and many enforcement authorities are a little concerned about what this law will ultimately mean in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u43	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u44	Madam President! Just now, when there was talk of this right side of the left and how the right is viewed now in these matters, the amount of the history of the bet itself and what the money is spent on: I understand that this original Veikkaus has left the Workers' Sports Federation and then at some point it was accompanied by SVUL and this money was spent on sport in Finland. Later legislative changes also brought culture into it, which in itself I agree with and approve of these various disability organizations, but when Veikkaus distributes more than half a million dollars to various Somali associations, Lieksa Somalis and others, organises bicycle training for immigrant women, it is quite a long way from that original idea. I am surprised that on the left there is absolutely no concern that such a monopoly company will be run by someone on a salary of EUR 400000. It's okay with you, but then they throw all the accusations that we're trying to do something wrong. After all, the intention is probably to remove gambling problems and gambling disadvantages, but then we are concerned about that revenue. Congressman Myllykoski made a good point in my opinion. If I did, you did not completely exclude these other options. By the way, when Veikkaus distributes that money, it should be used there for sport and Finnish association activities, for the benefit of Finnish young people, as might these companies outside the monopoly. However, they have also concluded sponsorship agreements with athletes and others, so that I do not completely rule out the idea that there are others in Finland. I can see that this is good, but this money allocation to activities that do not fall under this idea is unacceptable. I would, however, like to see this bet working, but it should be focused on the original.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u45	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u46	Mr President! First of all, Mr Rydman: You stated that our Veikkaus Oy is aggressively marketing its products and games. Mr Rydman probably knows that now that Sweden has moved to this licensing system, these licensing companies spend 20 times as much euros on marketing, aggressive marketing, as Veikkaus did on us. Then you can ask, if you are concerned about gambling disadvantages, problem gambling, when no person has been able to be credible to determine how such an 80-90 license system operator is more credible in managing their responsibility — companies that, of course, seek maximum profit. Somehow now I am puzzled by this Rydman way of thinking in this context, with all due respect. There is, of course, a coalition in the background. From their own point of view, they are not enthusiastic about this system of exclusive rights. In the background, then, perhaps a wish to enter such a licensing system. Then, Mr Rantanen: I think you are also well aware of how we have a strong system of social associations and operators in Finland, dozens of associations and organisations focusing on health and social issues. That's how much I personally know people from there, that I know that they're high-quality, high-quality, great people. [MariBantasy Call]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u49	You can move on, if you want to continue, to the podium. - Well, then let's move on. Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u50	Madam President! Mr Gustafsson seems to expect me to have some unspeakable background purposes. I do have the habit of saying my thoughts in full and in such a way that there would be little behind them. It may be that Mr Gustafsson has some kind of background motive, but I do not see it as a matter of concern to them to go and guess, but rather to listen to what he says and will be said here. It is now essential to ask what the practical results are, what the various gambling systems have achieved. The Finnish system, contrary to what it has justified itself, has produced a rather large and relatively high problem of gambling in Europe and in the wider Western world. Then, of course, if you want to remain intellectually honest, you must be able to ask why our system does not produce such results as it justifies itself. Mr Gustafsson also mentioned that there are gambling companies which, as private companies, seek to maximise their own profits. Well, private companies themselves are probably trying to maximise their profits, but there are always restrictions on gambling in a regulated environment. In fact, in the Finnish exclusivity system, Veikkaus has been a company that has, in fact — specifically required and directed by politicians — tried to maximise its results. It is not very long ago that the goal of profit was explicitly set for Veikkaus by politicians. There was a desire to have enough money, which can then be shared for various, many good purposes in themselves. It is only recently that a little effort has been made to cut this off and we have moved on to the question of profit estimates, so that it does not seem so bad in terms of the European legal perspective, but it has been very much said towards Brussels that the purpose of our system is specifically to prevent or deal with the negative effects of gambling problems. However, when in practice it seems that this has rather been such a nice cash machine, it has also guided the company’s operations and its goals. At the same time, we need to understand that if our system were to change second or if slot machines were to be slightly less available, it would be more likely that money would be transferred to something other than gambling when those machines were there in the store. Maybe we should buy some food or maybe some medicine.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u51	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u52	Mr President! I am trying to make this my last speech, and I have no intention of prolonging the sitting. Perhaps so much now from this recent history that, as the enlightened colleague here probably knows, 2017 to the Slot Machine Association and Hippos and Then Rahis and the vending machines came to the bet. I agree with the estimates that machines must play a significant role in problem gambling. Well, that is why their number has now been halved in the last two years, and I have such an estimate that this direction will probably continue in the future. It is not realistic to think that, when this merger took place, there would then be some sort of new situation that was suddenly decided on somewhere, that there would be a gradual change in the case of vending machines that has now been made, which I think has been the right one. It is also based on this powerful identification, which was already required by the lottery law 2019 and which has also led to this. I just wanted to say this out loud because, in a certain way, I am offended when I am a long-liner. In time, when the father came home from the factory, he brought in a green envelope with his playable standard bet so that the Pansion Star could make money for the social activities of children and young people, and I have always learned to appreciate the activities of Veikkaus. But, as I said, there have been unquestionably problems with these cash dispensers, and I think that they have been tried to solve them in the right and fine way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u53	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u54	Mr President! I fully understand Mr Gustafsson's point of view. He is concerned about the source of that money for these associations of general interest. However, I myself would like to draw attention to the fact that some consideration should also be given to what kind of associations they are. The legislation has now changed this so that a significant proportion goes to all groups with immigrant backgrounds, to their associations, and they get all kinds of communists to ask for that money. That's not acceptable. There are causes and consequences. Then there is the fact that if this monopoly of Veikkaus was dismantled, and someone spoke here, that the money would then go to some tax haven in Naurusaari. This bet job is a pretty small thing in itself. Some time ago, I believe that the political left was also deciding that Fortum's electricity networks were sold, that is, that it did not break the monopoly, but that the monopoly was sold abroad, and that is how the money will now be passed on from maintaining the electricity grid to Naurusaari by these foreign companies. Now, to Mr Gustafsson, when it seems to be a matter of heart to you and you remembered your youth when Dad brought you those bet notes: I, too, recall my youth, and at that time this money, which became the money of the bet, was spent on sport and supporting sport. I also understand and agree with these various organisations for the disabled and support for culture, but I hope that Mr Gustafsson will also take to heart this fact that these subsidies for immigrant associations will be removed from that divisional list of Veikkaus. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u55	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u56	Madam President! In my opinion, Mr Gustafsson's speech brought a good and interesting perspective to the history of Finnish gambling, and through a personal, personal childhood memory it also offered a pretty good perspective on the culture, history and environment of Finnish gambling and gambling in which the Finnish gambling system has evolved and lived. Reforms are needed and I therefore regret that, in this government proposal, many of the main problems related to the current Finnish gambling and the Finnish gambling system are not addressed and, insofar as improvements are made, they are very small in scale. But most of all, it is precisely the fact that, instead of interfering with these big ones, these blockages make it significantly more difficult for the Finnish industry and, in many ways, for the poker culture that characterises top-notch sports, which has been very likely to generate money in Finland, because Finnish poker professionals in international arenas have been quite successful and able to win more than they have lost. This is the definition of poker pros. It may be that these barriers to money transfers are easy to circumvent in themselves, but nevertheless it does put a sad stigmatism on the respectable skill, knowledge and profession in itself, when a little more vis-à-vis the future will have to be used. At the same time, when they have to use them, it is also very likely to transfer money transfers to some platforms that are more difficult to reach and follow up to Finnish authorities, which at its worst can create a bundle of new problems without the old ones being properly resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u57	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u58	Thank you, Madam President. It has been very interesting to listen to this debate. I would like to add one more point of view to this — this is just my own opinion and probably the opinion of about a thousand small entrepreneurs — of these famous gaming machines. Today, when shops are allowed to be open 24/7, every source of income is extremely important, especially for R-kiosks and small shops. Especially for small shops and kiosks just slot machines and online points, issuing a passport, Schenker, Matkahuolto — those additional services bring the entrepreneur the famous result. I'm sorry in this debate that no one ever takes that issue into account, because I know that too... Look, I understand that those sharks are big, but they're bad for Alko, too. When the assembly wants the wine at the store, where do they put the wine there? Shall we put them somewhere in the back room so that one by one the wine can be fetched? In my opinion, even alcohol abuse is relatively high in Finland. Either way, I think I should keep my eye on it... Maybe someone's laughing that if you don't get the results, then let's shut it down. But those things are just facts now when the stores are open all the time. Every euro is important to a small entrepreneur. That is the point of view I just wanted to bring into this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u59	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u65	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Within a five-year transitional period, social and health services' affiliated entities and their owners have had the opportunity to adapt to the so-called normal situation. It is also a question of the credibility of decision-making, which means that these deadlines cannot be constantly passed on, but must be predictable for the future. The Competition and Consumer Authority has clarified and concluded that the market shares of the affiliated entities controlled by public contracting entities are already significant in Finland. The objection by the Assembly has given due cause and I therefore propose that this bill be rejected in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u67	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u68	Mr President! I support Mr Grahn-Laasonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u69	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u70	Thank you, Mr President. The Group of the Party of European Socialists finds it very regrettable that the government has promised the Commission an amendment of the law and has not sought to find out how the right in force in Finland to meet the requirements of the EIA Directive and how it can be implemented in a different and better way. We are concerned about Finland's slow licensing system. According to recent reports, Finland has a variety of investments worth over EUR 3 billion that are stuck in a permit pipeline waiting to be processed. When these investments are urgently needed to ensure, among other things, a green transition, Finland cannot afford this. We objected to adding text to the explanatory statement. We are concerned, among other things, that the extension of the right of appeal, which is contained in this Chemical Safety Act, will extend the overall period of authorisation for investments by the yva-requirers, and we hope that this concern about authorisation and its slow processes in Finland will be taken seriously. I would therefore like to table an amendment following the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u71	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u72	Mr President! I support Mr Grahn-Laasonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u73	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 20/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u74	Madam President! Indeed, the Government’s proposal to Parliament to regulate fisheries in the waters of the Teno River referred to in Article 5(2) of the Agreement2 is now under discussion, although it is stated that it will prolong the ‘rule’. In recent years, it is precisely because of the very weak salmon stock of 20 years that Teno has agreed to restrict fishing in Teno between Norway and Finland. Even now, we have seen in this year's calculations that abstinence has clearly improved the salmon situation, but it is still very bad. It is a very bad situation for Sámi, tourism entrepreneurs and local owners of fishing rights if the salmon disappears from Teno. However, it is one of the most important Atlantic salmon breeding rivers in the world with its tributaries. And when it is known that some 30 hereditary salmon strains are present in Teno’s waters, it is an important issue. We do not yet know why this reduction in the salmon stock is so drastic, but the committee has in its own report taken a very good position on the fact that we need to increase research considerably, not only for Norway and Finland. The Committee considers it important that we find a balanced and fair solution to the restrictions on salmon fishing in the coming years. We must take note of the fact that our indigenous people in Sámi, on the basis of various international agreements, have the right to practise their own culture and a restriction on fishing in that regard prevents and is, so to speak, contrary to international agreements. But, of course, when the committee thinks about it, it is always a shame that we are going to have to deal with the other kind of fishing, that is to say, preventing fish stocks from being taxed by fishing, but it has been necessary at this point to ensure that Teno's rising salmon comes. I believe that a solution can be found between Finland and Norway to enable salmon stocks to recover. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u75	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u76	Madam President! Now it is a little quieter than the last time this was at first reading, but there was a great deal of criticism on the part of the Group of the European People's Party about this too and about the fact that the number of staff who are obliged to organise these dialogues in companies under the Yt law is 35. To this end, I would like to say with certainty that, according to Article 6 of this proposed new cooperation, dialogue refers to the handling of matters between the employer and staff representatives, which promotes an adequate and timely flow of information between the employer and the staff, as well as the empowerment of staff in matters relating to their work, working conditions or position in the company. Continuity of the dialogue will be achieved in such a way that dialogues will, in principle, have to be organised at least quarterly. It may seem an administrative burden and an increase in red tape, but I believe that companies that really pay attention to this interaction and dialogue will also have the opportunity for employers to gain their own benefits from dialogue with workers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u77	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u78	Thank you, Madam President. In the present proposal, the conditions for full electric car purchasing aid are almost the same as in the current law applicable between 18 and 21. The purchase aid for full electric cars will therefore amount to EUR 2000 for the purchase or long-term rental of a fully electric passenger car. Thus, the price limit for the supply aid remains the same as in the current law, in which the maximum price of the car may be EUR 50000. The purchase aid for a full electric car could only be applied for by private individuals. Madam President! This point is precisely the point on which much has been discussed. As a result, I personally would have liked to see aid opened up not only for the purchase of private cars but also for the purchase of cars for taxi use, the electrification of the taxi fleet when it is only just beginning and the demand for electric cars is also growing in the taxi fleet. The emission requirements imposed by public procurement also require an electrification of the taxi fleet. Madam President! However, it should be borne in mind that the ability of taxi operators to invest in new, more expensive technologies is limited, as the market has been significantly reduced and the profitability of the taxi sector is exceptionally low in the current market situation. Mr President! Finally, for the sake of clarity, the Finns of Peru submitted together with the National Coalition Party that the purchase subsidy would also have come to the taxis. A level playing field could thus have been ensured by adding taxis to the beneficiaries of the acquisition aid. The objection was worded as follows: ‘The draft law proposed by the government is generally to be supported. However, the Groups of the Party of European Socialists and the People's Party's Committee do not see as justified in terms of reductions in emissions that the taxi industry should be excluded from the scope of the full electric car supply subsidy. On the contrary, as quickly as possible, the electrification of the taxi fleet would result in a reduction in road transport emissions as quickly as possible and it is therefore justified that taxis should be eligible for procurement aid.’ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u79	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-13-ps-150.u80	Madam President! Compared to the rest of Europe, Finland is a sparsely populated country that needs its own car. Climate change, however, does not stop at our borders, but its effects extend all over the world. That is why we also need to make our motoring more environmentally sustainable. The most important thing is to make this change fair. The Government therefore proposes to continue to support the purchase and conversion of vehicles with the aim of increasing the attractiveness and demand of non-fossil power vehicles. With this support, we will ensure that everyone has the opportunity and means to move on to the environment in a sustainable way. The amount of the acquisition and conversion aid is set at EUR 2000, which guarantees that the aid will be distributed to several Finnish private individuals. If the aid amount were higher, there would be a risk that only a small proportion of the citizens would benefit from it. The amount of aid proposed ensures that each individual wishing to receive the aid has the opportunity to apply for it. Madam President! Finland's goal is to be carbon neutral by 2035. Transport accounts for about one fifth of Finland’s emissions, and by far most of the emissions are caused by road transport. That is why it is crucial that emissions from road transport are reduced and that our fleet is renewed to fossil-free. Conversion aid enables old and used petrol cars to be converted into e.g. ethanol or biogas cars with a fully competitive fuel price with petrol. The conversion aid ensures that Grandpa’s old It is also possible to turn Toyota into a zero emission. Contrary to what is often said, fossil-free transport does not mean that alternatives or free movement are being undermined, but vice versa. Fossil traffic increases the individual’s choice and freedom when we get rid of foreign fossil addiction. The future of motoring lies in domestic electricity, biogas, ethanol and other alternative drivers. Mr President! Aid for conversion or procurement alone is not sufficient to promote non-fossil transport. In addition to subsidies, there is a need to increase the coverage and functionality of the charging and distribution infrastructure for alternative power. This will ensure that alternative operating forces become a genuinely viable option. This is why it is important to support charging and distribution infrastructure with public funds in areas where charging points would otherwise not be created. In the future, it will be important to explore more comprehensive possibilities for extending the support programme to emerging technologies. It is particularly important to look for ways to support the development of hydrogen and biogas vehicles. The rapid development of alternative forces also requires monitoring of the implementation and functioning of the law now being enacted. When implementing the road map for fossil-free transport, we must continue to identify every possible means of reducing transport emissions.
