ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u2	Madam President! Of Finland's surface area, 22.8 million hectares, or 75 per cent of our land area is forest. This is a classic example when European colleagues ask us how many forests there are in Finland: we only have the one forest in which we live and where we live in practice. Indeed, 25% of our forest area is owned by the State, and this citizens' initiative is directly concerned with this state-owned forest, but it is certainly good to discuss forests more extensively in this context. After all, a huge proportion of Finnish households own forests. 61% of our forests are privately owned just like this, and indeed some 8% of Finland's forests are owned by different companies. All in all, the income from the management of forests, the carrying money, comes to every municipality in Finland. It is about EUR 2 billion of this household's carry-on money that comes into our economy every year, but it is important to understand how much the value chains from these will produce for our economy. Of the value of our goods exports, over EUR 20 billion comes from these traditional forest industry products. There are paper, uncoated and coated, cardboard, sawn timber, cellulose, of course, many new products which are being developed all the time to replace fossil raw materials. On the other hand, forest bioenergy accounts for almost one third of all our primary energy use, so it does not matter how forests are managed in Finland. In this sense, of course, when these economic effects are so great, it is important that we also take into account the other side of the matter, that we Finns are forest people. We're all in a forest relationship. The forest is part of the Finnish landscape. It is an absolutely central part of a variety of recreational activities in everyday life, whether it is about moving around in its natural forest or, for example, collecting berries and mushrooms, hunting, fishing, so on, but it is also a key source of many other livelihoods, such as tourism, which has developed enormously in recent years. In this respect too, it is important to discuss how forests are managed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u3	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u4	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Kalmar, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, for the fact that in such a matter as it seemed, at least in principle, that it would certainly divide the troops, it has been possible to produce a report which is unanimous, quite thorough. This citizens' initiative started with a ban on open felling in the forests of the state, and the committee has dealt quite thoroughly with this whole issue. As Mr Autto said earlier, about 22.8 million hectares of Finland's surface area, or 75 per cent, three quarters, is forest. Of this forest sector, the state owns a good quarter, private individuals around 61 per cent and others about 8 per cent. And it is also noteworthy that, according to forest reserves data, the number of trees in Finland has started to grow strongly in the late 1960s. Since the 1970s, the growth of the growing stock has been higher than the removal and, at the same time, the volume of the growing stock has increased by more than 40%, as stated in this committee's report. Between 2009 and 2017 the annual growth rate of the growing stock And when this committee’s work has been thorough, they have also gone through what these forests are like. The most typical age group of Finnish forests is 40-60-year-old forests, about one-fifth of the forest area of our country. The proportions of age groups 1 to 20 years, 21 to 40 years and 61 to 80 years are also more than 15 %. The age group 81-100 years represents 12% of the forest land sector, and this report states that, apart from northern Finland, the share of forests over 100 years of age has been growing since the 1920s. This committee's report goes through this proposal for a citizens' initiative, among other things, in the way in which the forestry industry is a key sector for our agriculture's economy. In 2019, the forest industry accounted for nearly 20 per cent of the value of our country's goods exports. According to the data of the Natural Resources Centre, there were a total of approximately 63,000 Finns in direct employment in the forest sector last year. The impact on carbon sequestration, carbon stocks, impacts on forest biodiversity, impacts on water bodies and other very detailed effects is examined here, but also, for example, the recreational use of forests and so on. I believe that the Committee's conclusions are well-founded and well-considered and emphasise this whole: biodiversity, the promotion of carbon sequestration and adaptation to climate change, the improvement of the status of water bodies, the conditions for the recreational and tourist use of forests and so on. I believe that this has been done quite thoroughly and, as I began my speech, I do want the chairman of the committee, Mrs Anne of the Centre. Kalmaria thanks for the fact that it has been possible to combine these different aspects of the forest quite well. So, ladies and gentlemen, our forests have grown year after year. The carbon that is committed to trees has also fought climate change, and now, in fact, the countries that have destroyed their own forests centuries ago are coming to give advice on how forests should be managed in Finland. And I do not understand this equation, and that is why I have been concerned about following this dispute over forestry policy by Prime Minister Sanna Marin's left-wing government. The forest dispute in the taxonomy has been such that Finland’s voice is unlikely to be heard in the EU, and these harmful measures against us, which are harmful to Finnish forest owners, will come into force despite the fact that the Centre has announced that it will vote against them. It is true, Mr President, that the influence of the government on this issue of taxonomy in the EU has been unclassical. Influencing the EU has been of inferior value, and unfortunately it will be affected by Finnish forest owners and also by Finnish forest habitats. In fact, the worst moment in all of this was last week or last week when the EU Commissioner for Forests came to Finland. The government of our country, the left-wing government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin, was not then able to form a position or express its position to the Commissioner responsible for forestry policy. The position was open and the matter was going in the wrong direction in the EU. And, yes, Minister Saarikko was quite right when his accusing finger pointed specifically at Prime Minister Marin. Marin has failed in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u9	And at this point I would say that there is therefore a citizens' initiative and a second reading, but I know that it was not possible for Mr Kalmar, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to speak on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry at first reading, so, exceptionally, I will give Mr Kalmar a two-minute reply on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I am proud of my committee that we were able to defend the forests of the Finnish State in this uniform way. The will of the citizens' initiative was quite a good state of mind. They wanted more diversity, more attention to the environment, this type of thing with their initiative. In fact, this response to our citizens' initiative has taken this into account: we have two statements, one of which wants to ensure that Metsähallitus' revenue targets are such that we can continue to pursue this sustainable forestry. After all, we have indications that, sometimes under too much pressure, even too young forests have been cut or this type of action has been taken, and this should not be the case. The second statement is that, when we overturned this initiative — we do not want open fellings to be banned — we unanimously state that a variety of different methods of forest management should be used in the state forests, suitable for each area and for each site, and yet we also want to encourage continuous farming, which this citizens' initiative encouraged, to be carried out to an increasing extent in forests where it is the best possible form of logging. For example, certain types of peatland forests, multifunctional forests, recreational areas and this type of forest should go in that direction. More generally, I would like forest policy to understand that when we hold it in Finnish hands,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u11	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u12	Mr President! When this citizens' initiative came to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I was still allowed to be a member of the committee. Of course, I have already left there later, but I should like to add my thanks to those who have said that a good and truly thorough work was done by the committee on this citizens' initiative. This included extensive consultations with researchers in the fields of forestry, natural sciences and environmental science, and these conclusions, as already listed in the previous speeches, have been summarised in this report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. In general terms, from this citizens' initiative, it is also stated in this report that the aim of these changes is to contribute to the achievement of biodiversity objectives in forests, to strengthen the carbon stock of forests and soils, to improve the capacity of forest and forestry to adapt to climate change, and to improve the status of water bodies and the conditions for recreational and tourist use. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry welcomes the objectives of the citizens' initiative and considers that the achievement of these objectives should be a key element in the management of state forests in particular. And as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, has just said, two statements have also been made in this regard. Mr President! I think it is wonderful that citizens' initiatives are successful in ensuring that these issues are examined very thoroughly here by the committees, even though they are not on our table as legislative proposals at the moment. In this way, Parliament will also be kept informed of what is going on in our forestry, in our forest management and whether there is a need for some kind of legislative change in this area in the future. It now seems that the committee has done very well in this regard too, perhaps even in historical terms, that you have been able to speak unanimously on this point — perhaps it must be said here — because state forests are very diverse in the sense that there are different kinds of forests: there are so-called traditional economic forests, but there are also, of course, many protected areas and many other forests. Of course, this citizens' initiative has now been particularly relevant to these economic forests, because, of course, there are no actual open fellings in such protected areas. However, I believe that we are moving forward in such a way as to encourage the development of a method of logging which is suitable for each site, but also conducive to the objectives of this citizens' initiative, and I would like to thank the Committee for its excellent work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u13	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u14	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I personally feel, as Mr Multala did, that these citizens' initiatives, whatever the subject matter, are therefore welcome for the committees to actually look into the matter, to consult dozens of experts and then to produce a report which Parliament will then, in its own way, discuss. Mr President! First of all, we already have a forest law that respects the choice of forest owners in how they manage their forests. In that sense, this citizens' initiative goes a little far, as if by the forest law it were denying a certain type of forest management method in the countries of the state. Personally, and I have come to understand that it is the will of the whole Parliament, that we, Finland, have a long-term approach to increasing carbon sinks, increasing carbon stocks in Finnish forests in the long term, and that will not be possible if we do not use new, better seedlings. Their growth potential, i.e. their carbon sequestration potential, is between 10% and 25% higher than through normal reform. In other words, we must also favour open felling along with different kinds of other forest management methods and forestry methods in the state countries, so that we can increase carbon stocks and increase carbon sinks. There's a lot of talk about forest policy. Yesterday I was looking at A-talk, as I'm sure many others were, and it came to mind just how much intimidation this now contains, whatever political stances this debate involves. When I look at the national forest investment and the threat of Finnish species, the red book, this becomes such a summary that the protection of old forests has increased clearly, the average volume of trees in Finland has increased clearly, the proportion and number of large trees has increased clearly, the number of wounds has increased sixfold, the number of trees left uncut in the end fellings has increased. So not everything is as negative as the public debate suggests. Of course, you can wonder what the purpose and motive of this debate is, I do not know. And if we are still looking at the endangered nature of Finnish species, the Red Paper 2019 says that nine per cent of forest species are endangered. This figure has been unchanged throughout the 21st century. So there has been no disaster here, even though the public debate says it has. The Red Book, which I trust at least because, as was said yesterday at Studio A, is like a Bible, proves another. And if we go to the average volume of decay wood in Southern Finland's wood production area, it has increased. Mr President, I myself wonder that when this public debate proves otherwise that there is a major national emergency and a state of emergency with regard to the diversity of forests and so on, these official figures prove something else. Mr President! Now that we are discussing forests, yesterday's debate may have focused on one small subject, this taxonomy, but as chairman of the Committee on Finance's Agriculture section, I now want to say to the Members of Parliament who are here on this important issue that the various funds already own half a million hectares of Finnish forests. Several forest funds and tens of thousands of hectares have been sold abroad, which means that Finnish forest property is currently in the new division. This should now be registered by Members of Parliament as to what is happening in this country. And much is said about coal trade, compensations and other fine things, but if Finland's carbon sequestration is compensated for industrial emissions somewhere else in the world, then I have that idea and my own life experience supports that big money wins small money. And if Finnish forests are bought elsewhere in the world, whatever it is, then it will be just as it should not be, that Finnish forest ownership will drift outside Finland's borders and it will never come back from there again. It does not help that at present the funds are domestic, as several funds have been sold abroad. So, yes, this should now be registered. This is a real concern that Finland will be bought for compensation purposes with big money, and anyone who follows the prices of forest farms knows that they have escaped beyond the reach of ordinary forest owners. It is these funds and foreign agencies that offer high prices, and of course the seller sells where it gets the best price. This I wanted to point out that I personally find it worrying that our national property, the Finnish forests, escape even for other purposes, and then they may no longer benefit the Finnish forest industry, do not increase employment and do not increase tax revenues in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u15	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u16	Madam President! Thank you very much, Mr Eestilä, for your excellent speech. He said this great problem of Finnish forestry directly and honestly and with the right words. Thank you for your good speech. The second thanks go of course to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Anne Kalmar, and to the committee as a whole, for the quality of the work and, above all, for the sensible conclusions. I have been somewhat disturbed by the fact that there is no recognition of the facts in this forest discussion. It is worth remembering the big fact that Finland's net exports in practice account for more than 20 per cent of forest industry products. At the same time, it drives the metal industry, the chemical industry, construction and, in many forms, the energy industry. The chemical industry is on the sidelines with a huge new volume that we will not know in ten years' time — if this house allows its development to continue. All kinds of claims that we are going to destroy or destroy forests, are not true in the light of any information, and I find it irresponsible to speak here constantly about the need to protect forests. If climate change is to be combated, we need to manage the forests even better, make it grow up to 130, up to 140 million cubic metres a year, and the carbon sink will certainly be fine. Why has that forest grown so well? Because it's been reformed. The old forest doesn't grow. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what happens in Germany and Central Europe in general: old, untreated or overly dense young forests die up. Last summer in Germany and Central Europe more than 100 million mots of wood were killed because of lack of care and overage. If we want to deal with climate change, we need to manage the forests well. This kind of talk, which I have heard from the Greens in particular recently, is absolutely scandalous. Why aren't they telling the truth? It is strange now that the truth in this house has no value in these words of theirs at this point. Why is it not stated, even though the Constitution specifically requires that we stick to the truth and justice? I've never understood that. The Finnish Forest Research Institute, the current Luke, has studied our forests for over 100 years, and the mots are known, the growth is known, the condition of the forests is known, and those who claim that the diversity is currently on the edge: that is not true either. If the size of the forest holding is about 25 to 30 hectares — there are more than 500,000 forest owners in Finland and the average area of the forest stand is about 30 hectares — and every forest area, every independent farm, has about 20 forest patterns, then there is no more complex system. Another thing: When you look at those forests, there's a lot of forests that haven't moved anything in ten years. With this automation, diversity is achieved without compensation. I hope from you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will stick to the truth, because it is absolutely the best option for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-19-ps-137.u17	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. Firstly, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on TaVM 31/2021 vp, it is decided at the sole reading on the reservation and explanation and then at the second reading on the legislative proposals.
