ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure. I'm opening a conversation. Congressman Ronkainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u2	Mr President! The government is finally waking up to the reality of the corona virus situation. Before Christmas... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u7	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u8	Mr President! We are talking here in Parliament about corona and the vaccination obligation of health care personnel, which, according to the chairman of the Finnish Federation of Local and Basic Nurses, would in practice mean forced vaccination. Forced vaccination would further increase the burden on carers and affect the attractiveness of the health care sector, which is already suffering from labour shortages. In my opinion, this law, when it comes into force, could cause a crisis there among the medical staff. Mr President! How many times have you been vaccinated? I will answer it myself, and I apologise for the question, namely that vaccination information is everyone's own personal health information and it is none of their business. Many vaccinated nurses feel this way too. Each adult may decide whether to take the vaccine or not. But perhaps it would be better to put it this way: how many vaccines are you prepared to take to keep the corona passport working? I'll answer this myself. With this question, I am simply trying to raise representatives in this Chamber to wonder how many spikes they are willing to take before the camel’s back breaks. That, too, is their own business. What is a full series of vaccines in the future, we do not know. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, doubt that some health professionals themselves will be able to weigh the benefits of the vaccine against the risks posed by the vaccine? Yesterday I had a conversation with someone and she said that she thought the nurses would trust science. I replied that perhaps they trust science, only reading them from a different source. I find the role of the media a little strange, because the mainstream media has proclaimed one truth, but at the same time there are many critical and quite opposite views on the Internet, which are written and communicated by the vaccine development actors who are quite worthy of consideration. Among other things, the person who has been referred to as the developer of mRNA technology has himself made quite critical statements about, among other things, the vaccination of children. With current information, I also take vaccination of children with a question mark, because when Yle asked Finnish experts about this issue in the spring, the Chief Medical Officer of the Institute for Health and Welfare and the Director of the University of Tampere Vaccination Research Centre answered as follows: The Yle case asked about the conditions under which vaccination of children could be started. These included the fact that the disease is more serious in children and the vaccine is highly resistant to infectivity and long-term vaccine protection. Now, in December, it has been decided that interest rate amortizations will extend to those aged between 5 and 11 years of age, and these earlier THL statements seemed to have no further relevance. Mr President! A lot has recently been said about the spirit of Helsinki in Finland, and I would also like to bring up the ethics of doctors. Everyone knows that in 75 Helsinki it was agreed that Europe's borders will be permanent and that all citizens will enjoy equal human rights, but who knows that in 64 C.E., the Helsinki Declaration on Human Medical Research was adopted at the General Assembly of the World Medical Association as the most visible and certainly the most important declaration? I personally feel that these corona vaccination measures in Finland are currently violating the Helsinki Declaration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u11	Thank you. — Mr Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! As you know, I have repeatedly insisted that the content of corona vaccines should be studied in Finland before they can be injected into people here. However, none of you have ever made a dent in your ear about it. I am sure that if the substances in question had been examined in accordance with my wish and request, we would all have unanimously declared this madness to be over in this country. I don't know what still has to happen, that reason wins in this house. Perhaps it will take the terrible consequences of bringing this bill into force. Ladies and gentlemen! We parliamentarians have the personal independence and the personal obligation to respect only our constitution in our decisions, as provided for in Article 29 of the Constitution. I repeat: personal independence and a personal obligation to respect only our constitution in our decisions. If we, ladies and gentlemen, accept this government's proposal, we will then take a shocking decision, which is invalid in breach of Article 7:2 of the Labour Protection Act and Articles 15, 18 and 22 of the Constitution and of human rights treaties and the Equality Act and goes beyond our discretion. So by accepting this motion we are guilty of a serious crime. As all of us will be aware of this by this speech at the latest, we cannot appeal to ignorance in the preliminary investigation of crime in Finland or in the process of the International Criminal Court. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in this last part-session of this year's Parliament in an historicly hard place. I hope that each of us understands that, including those who failed to attend this most important part-session in our history. Ladies and gentlemen! I have prayed to you for understanding and wisdom for this day. I have also prayed to you for courage and strength so that, in the midst of all this corruption, you, as individuals and through your conscience, will be able to decide on this very important matter of concern to the people of Finland so that you will not be guided by group disciplines, party disciplines or by your fear of becoming the eyepiece of the mainstream media. Mr President! I support Mr Ronkainen's motion for rejection and wish the whole Finnish people a very good new year. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u13	Thank you. — Mr Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u14	Mr President! First of all, let me answer the question of what these vaccines contain. Yes, the contents of those vaccines have been studied. There is no coronavirus, sars-covid-2 virus, or even parts thereof, in this mRNA vaccine. Instead, the vaccine contains a transmitter-mRNA containing instructions for the body to produce a coronavirus surface protein, a so-called spike protein. And in addition, this vaccine contains quite normal vaccine binders — water, salts, sugar, fats — and then it has the very small fat particle inside which this substance is hidden so that it can enter the muscle cell. So we know what's in it. I wonder at the plentiful messages that have come from the fact that the content of the vaccine is not as if it were not reported or not known.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u19	Thank you. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u20	Mr President! The proposal therefore proposes to introduce a new Article 48a of the Act on communicable diseases, which is provisionally in force. It aims to improve the conditions for the protection of the health of customers and patients exposed to serious penalties for the interest rate. The social and health care service provider should therefore be obliged to ensure that the staff have adequate protection against the epidemic. This means that the worker should be protected either by corona vaccination or by a disease that has been sick for up to six months. If a social worker has a medical reason for not taking the vaccine, he could work by demonstrating a negative corona test result. President! If the conditions for an employee are not met, the employer should primarily provide other suitable work in accordance with the contract of employment or other suitable work, i.e., in practice, work without close contact with the customer or patient. In the view of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the protection of the lives and health of customers and patients, as well as the ability to function are also very strong grounds for the adoption of the proposed Article 48a. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, regulation can be regarded as a requirement for the health status of workers in the social and health care sector. President! It is possible that regulation may challenge the availability of labour in the social services sector. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore wisely stresses the need to monitor the implementation of the change and, in particular, its impact on the duty of the public authorities to ensure adequate social and health services for everyone and to promote the health of the population. All of us — all of us — recognize the fact that a professional in the field is needed for vital work. We also know that during almost two years of the pandemic, the workers in the social welfare sector have been working under a huge workload — most of them exemplaryly and with a very high level of responsibility, heroically. However, we are still in a serious situation. Omicron appears to penetrate the vaccine shield more easily than previous variants. That is why I wish that the third round of vaccines would go fast and comprehensively. We need up-to-date protection against variants, which is why last week's recommendation on the interval between vaccinations was reduced for the third dose of vaccine. That's a good thing. President! These temporary changes are not just nice legislation. Nevertheless, I think they are justified, but I really hope that our common and prolonged fight against the plague will soon be just a memory, at the very least, of learning to live with it. Only together will we survive through our rights and obligations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u22	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u23	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. The draft statement made by Mr Räsänen, which was distributed on behalf of Mr Sari Tanus, is worded as follows: ‘The Commission requires that government measures to protect patients and workers from the serious follow-up of Covid-19 in vulnerable clients and patients are introduced to an antigenic short-term test to test staff and visitors in close contact, so that patients and workers can be protected from therisk of infection and to ensure adequate numbers of social and health care staff I also support the motion to reject this proposal. Mr President! I am also one of those who have already received three vaccinations. I think it is important that those who do so can take this vaccine for themselves to protect ourselves and our fellow citizens. However, this presentation has been made carelessly in a hurry. Even its discussion of the Constitutional Committee, in my opinion, contains details which I was very surprised to read in that opinion. There was a great deal of emphasis on how this vaccine would protect everyone. That is not the case. It would have been good if the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had also pointed out that, despite the vaccines, people are getting these infections, including those who have been vaccinated. This law contains a very foreign element in Finnish legislation, a pressure element. The people in this country who are currently at the forefront of the fight against this disease and its consequences are now the people to whom this bill is directed. For us Christian Democrats, it is totally unreasonable — completely unreasonable — and therefore it should have been used to protect these people, even better than to bring in a law that people feel is a law of forced vaccination. We here are talking about the fact that this is not necessarily a matter of necessity. Then when you read these explanatory notes, it is stated that this is not a coercive law, but if the almost unanimous view of those who do this work is that this is a coercive law, this is a threat law,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u25	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u26	Mr President! We are all here, elected by the Finnish people and on behalf of the Finnish people, not on our own business, but I would like to start with a very personal example. I visit my soon - to - be - 93 - year - old mother once a week who is in the city of Pori for home nursing. He is treated at home two to three times a day, and occasionally he is treated at an interval of 24 hours. I sincerely hope that the medical staff who is treating him has taken and received the corona vaccines. This is simply one of the things that makes it difficult for me to think that an unvaccinated person would treat these very fragile elderly people. The fact that we are talking about tests is not the opposite of this. Tests can be used to supplement this protection from vaccination, which we certainly do not disagree with here. As regards the general corona situation, I cannot, of course, talk for very long about my place, but I would like to point out that we know that the number of people who have been vaccinated in intensive care is 20 times, i.e. 20 times, less common than those who have not taken the vaccine. If it had not been for the nine million vaccines that we have had in Finland, our hospitals would have gone beyond the limits of their endurance long ago. Right now, we're close to that. I would like to quote a few points from the excellent opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, within the time available. The last sentence of the third paragraph reads: ‘The regulation does not include compulsory vaccination. “ The last sentence of the fifth paragraph is:‘The criteria for the proposed The sixth sentence is The first sentence of In my opinion, there is nothing unclear about this. We need to legislate on this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u27	Thank you. — Mr Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u28	Mr President! In this motion for rejection, Mr Ronkainen gave broad reasons for rejecting this law, and I agree with all of them. We know that the vaccine does not guarantee anything, it does not guarantee that it is not infected. Instead, for example, the rapid test taken before the shift shows whether the nurse is carrying the virus at that time. — Mr Lindén must also admit that this is the case and that it will not change. The True Finns have proposed changes in this section. We have conducted extensive rapid testing and we are not in favour of this corona pass or the coercive vaccine. Although it is not wanted in the government parties to admit that it is a question of forced vaccination, it is therefore perceived that nothing can be done about it. However, I would like to make a proposal from the People’s Republic of Finland: ‘The Commission requires that government measures to introduce an antigen in social and health services to test guests
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u29	Thank you. — Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u30	Mr President! I, too, support Mr Ronkainen's motion for rejection and Mr Juuso's motion for a statement. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Finns have spoken about the importance of rapid tests and the possibility of preventing and combating the coronavirus epidemic at a very early stage in the autumn. On 14 December, here in Parliament, a statement was voted on — even then — in which we raised these rapid tests. It is very important that the government finally hears this important issue. We should all remember that vaccination does not exclusively protect against infection and does not prevent infection: This is an important fact. It's a reality, and everyone should remember it. It is good that people take the vaccines, and it is a personal choice for everyone, but it is nevertheless possible to carry and infect the corona virus. It is therefore very important that, for example, rapid tests are also controlled and monitored, precisely those who give the first sign of whether or not the infected person is a carrier, and then the person can formally apply for laboratory testing. It is now very important that tests are available. In that sense, the government is late that home tests, rapid tests have been sold out of shops and are not available to citizens. But that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're It is also very important to remember that when you go to a hospital, both guests and the medical staff themselves can carry the virus and infect you even if you have been vaccinated. So we are in the middle of big business, and the Finns of Peru think that fast tests should be introduced more widely in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u31	Thank you. — Mr Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u32	Mr President! From this day forward, the country will have severe restrictions that will reduce the lives of millions of Finns. I hope that together we can do everything we can to ensure that these restrictions can be relaxed as quickly as possible. In particular, I am concerned about restrictions on sports facilities and group sports activities, not least because of the health of the elderly and young people. Well, what can we do? Of course, it is clear that the most important way that we as a society can do is to speed up vaccinations, both the coverage of the first and second vaccines and this access to a third booster dose for a large part of the population. In this respect, the most important decision of this day in Parliament is probably a change in the amount of Kela compensation for vaccines given in occupational health care. We just got word from our e-mails that Parliament's occupational health promises 10. From January onwards, the campaign, and I very much hope that even in the first days of January, health care in Finland will be able to provide a third vaccination. I was able to book my own third vaccination shift today in Espoo for the 14th, but let's see if it needs to be used, and hopefully by then there will be a large third vaccination for people of working age already. Let us all do this, and I hope that the government will make further proposals to make qualifications more flexible, to involve pharmacies in the vaccination process and to ensure that the municipalities finally cooperate in every way with all those who can act in this regard. As part of this package — to keep our health care up in the next few weeks — we certainly need to increase the vaccination coverage of health professionals. That is why this bill, which is now on the table, difficult as it is, is acceptable and supported by the Assembly. Quick tests are needed. Fortunately, they have become widely used in society over the last month, and hopefully there will be more access. We are also in favour of the draft law on the abolition of VAT on speed tests, but rapid tests do not replace the vaccine. The rapid tests do not replace the vaccine — and the tone in this regard is at least unclear in the statements made in these Chamber, which have been made in the same speeches, in which there has been a rejection of the draft law and, therefore, a rejection of the health sector's vaccination obligation. We support this bill and consider rapid tests to be useful, but they do not replace vaccination coverage. Now let's work on the vaccination coverage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u33	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u34	Mr President! The world has been hit hard by an epidemic of interest rates, and it is up to us decision-makers to make decisions. They're not always easy. I understand that this bill has raised a lot of concerns and questions, and it is important that this has also been carefully dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I support this proposal and our parliamentary group supports it. The protection of the lives and health of customers, patients and staff, and the maintenance of the carrying capacity and functioning of the entire health system during an epidemic, are important grounds to provide for this Article 48a. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I would like to underline it, has also carefully dealt with this proposal and considered it proportionate and has also stated that, when you look at the whole proposal, this is not a mandatory vaccination, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. What is good here — and there is also the chairman of the committee — is that this is not new regulation. A number of legal scholars have said that this claim is already more or less in the current legislation and this only clarifies it. It is good that this is said out loud. It is also good to say, fortunately, that the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon, is present, that this regulation does not only apply to social and health care professionals, but also applies, according to the explanatory statement, to persons who are engaged in cleaning and catering activities, for example, who, in carrying out their duties, could pose a risk of infection to the customer and to the patient. What is close contact, Mr President, is not strictly regulated by this law, and I think it is important that the committee drew attention to the need to follow this up and give instructions on what this means, and then perhaps to clarify the regulation so that we know who is affected by this regulation. I'm sure this will raise some questions, and I understand that. However, there is no precise definition of close contact — STM has stated that the formation of a risk of infection is influenced by a number of factors and that the risk assessment is always specific — and that is why such guidance is certainly needed. That is what I want to say, Mr President, that science is important. Science has brought in vaccines that are the surest way to deal with this epidemic. They have their own side too, but I say that even though rapid tests are needed and promoted — a reduction in value added tax comes in this sitting — they do not protect against serious diseases, for example. Vaccines are needed, and I encourage everyone who can take them to take the vaccines in their turn. I would like to say that this report was valuable in the fact that this is an area where the inclusion of occupational health care is tightened up. It is good that the compensation is increased, but a regulation should be adopted to make it easier for municipalities to transfer responsibility to occupational health care in order to involve occupational health care. There are 1.9 million people there, and Finns will have to wait for the third vaccination when private health care is taken more strongly elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u35	Congressman Salmon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u36	Mr President! This bill before us has caused a great deal of concern to the citizens — it is also expressed by the number of mail we have received — and I am sure that this concern is justified, and it must not be underestimated to any extent. However, I have noticed that there is also some misinformation on the content of this bill. Let's talk about forced vaccination. Finnish legislation does not contain provisions which force people into the body to give vaccines, nor does this proposal contain them, nor should it contain them. This also applies not to all healthcare professionals, but only to those who, according to the proposal, are in a position to perform tasks that involve a risk of contagion from close contact to clients or patients susceptible to serious covid-19 consequences. Secondly, this is not the only option. Those who have suffered from this disease — and there are quite a lot of them in Finland, tens of thousands — have had adequate protection, so they are not required to have a vaccine. And there is also the possibility of a test, although it must be recognized and acknowledged that it applies above all to those who have a medical barrier to taking the vaccine. Another perhaps fundamental misunderstanding is that there would be some automatic right to dismiss a person from his/her duties if he/she did not take the vaccine. That is not the case. [JaniMäkeläarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u40	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u41	Mr President! There is now a fixed-term change in Article 48 of the Act on Disease Control, i.e. this bill would be in force until the end of 2022 and concerns the obligation to have a vaccine for certain persons who are mainly social workers, but there may also be other persons involved in support services who are in close contact with vulnerable persons. We all certainly want to be in a very vulnerable position, or aged, if we ourselves or our loved ones are being treated and are in poor health or have just received cancer treatments, that treatment is safe and reliable. All of them also have the right to health and to life, and we must not risk creating a risk for them by our own actions. In that regard, this bill is justified by the fact that we are here specifically protecting the weaker. As has been well pointed out here, the person who has been vaccinated is spreading the disease less. Unfortunately, it cannot prevent distribution entirely, but the vaccinated person is clearly less spread than the non-vaccinated, and this is very important. It must also be borne in mind that the unvaccinated burden our health system 20 times as much as the vaccinated, and when we look at this scale of epidemic, everyone will realise that at the same time we are putting our entire social and health care system at risk if we are opposed to the vaccines. Quick tests are also needed. In practice, we have been driving them and we welcome them, but they are not an alternative to vaccination; they are a complementary element. They are certainly worth using, and hopefully they will also be made more accessible to the country in the future. I would also like to point out here that no one will be dismissed on the grounds of refusing vaccination, but rather on the grounds that other tasks are being offered, or, if that is not possible, on the basis of a fixed-term cut in wages. But for forced vaccination
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u42	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u43	Mr President! In this law, therefore, in the case of social services, in those tasks involving close contact with particularly vulnerable persons, such as disabled people, elderly people, babies and so on, a social worker would have to have a vaccination or, at most, a disease that was sick six months earlier, that he could perform these tasks. This pandemic has been such that we have had to constantly reflect on the relationship between constitutional rights and the individual and then the society and community that we are protecting. Mr President, at least on this point I myself wonder that Article 7 of the Constitution, the right to life, is the reason why I am in favour of this draft law. This is only temporary, for about a year. This applies not only to nursing staff, but also to those involved in such matters as food services or cleaning. As Mr Salmon, for example, said earlier, we are not here to lay off people, but rather to seek other work in accordance with the contract of employment or other work, and if there is no such work, then simply the payment of wages will cease for a period of time, but the person will not be laid off. I also think it is good to follow this law when it comes into force, what effects it will have on the staff: how many people will be left out of it who would otherwise be in these jobs and whether the remaining people will be overburdened. Of course we have to follow this. I believe that, for example, the rapid tests presented in these statements, which could replace this series of vaccinations or disease, do not seem to me to be sufficient protection. As has been said several times here, those who have taken the full vaccination course both themselves are less likely to infect this disease and themselves are less likely to get it, and if they do, it is highly unlikely that they will get a worse form of that disease than the unvaccinated one. We have to think all the time about the burden of our health care, and we are already very close to full capacity for intensive care. Mr President! I am in favour of this law and I hope that we can move forward with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u44	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u45	Mr President! I am not in favour of this law, but I am in favour of Mr Ronkainen's motion to reject it. There have been speeches here, in particular by the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, even by the chairman and vice-president, which, in my opinion, are not true. I don't know why. Do they not know their cause, or do they deliberately speak anything other than real knowledge in this Chamber? Yes, Vice-President Laiho should be aware that this obligation is imposed on a much wider number of nurses than on those who care for the most fragile cancer patients. It is not true to claim that it is directed only at them. And, Mr Salmon, who are the health professionals who are not affected by this issue if it concerns even the cleaning staff? Which health professionals are excluded from this, in the opinion of the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health? I would like to hear an answer to this. If the employer cannot find another job — and probably cannot find another job when this obligation applies even to cleaning workers — then the employer has a subjective right to pay the wages. How can the Social Democrats, as some kind of Labour Party, accept and even defend such a proposal? Aren't they the Labour Party anymore? The corona line of the Finnish Government is marked by a lack of line. The actions come from abroad, imitated, half-hearted and late. This time, when there is no indication of what really should be done, the government will now, in the interests of certainty, restrict restaurants and gymnasiums and bring this kind of vaccine pressure from nurses to the hall. With regional election greetings, the government and its auxiliary party want to put pressure on Finnish nurses to be vaccinated, even though they feel that they have good reason not to take the vaccine. The vaccine obviously protects its taker against a serious form of disease. However, it does not protect against infection or transmission. The surest proof that the vaccine does not protect it is that the government has had to withdraw him from its own vaccine passport between its legs: it has only been stipulated that the vaccine passport will no longer be available. If the vaccine were to protect against infection and its spread, why should the vaccine passport be suspended? And why, if the vaccine passport does not work, do you in practice produce a vaccine passport for social welfare and health work? That's what it's really about, isn't it? Many times there have been calls for opinions and statements from the Constitutional Committee. I'm talking a little bit about them, too. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been very critical of the introduction of a vaccine passport for essential services or workplaces. The vaccine passport has mainly been approved as an alternative to the restrictions of activity on a fixed-term basis. This regulation is actually the introduction of a vaccine passport to the workplace. What's next? Where is the government going to force this unworkable vaccine passport with the support of its party? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs takes account of the actual availability of social and health care services, i.e. that if, as a result of this legislation, there is a significant drop in the number of carers who resign from their duties, the availability of care will be jeopardised to the extent that there is a constitutional problem: the administration does not guarantee the right of citizens to live, because there is not enough medical staff, because the government, through its own measures, has created a situation in which there is not enough medical staff. How can you in the government live with this situation? How are you going to follow this? And above all, if these redundancies happen, what will you do? Which one of you is going to pray for those nurses back to their jobs? Now try to understand where we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u46	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u47	Mr President! There is one good thing about this law and that is the aim of this law: it is therefore intended to protect our most fragile individuals in this country. But the problem is that this government proposal does not do it, not when we know very well — when Mr Salmon said here that, based on the last information, this government proposal has been made — that the latest information is that this omicronvariant in particular goes through these vaccines. I myself have a close, intimate experience of this: a nurse who had been vaccinated three times worked in a place where very fragile disabled people were treated, and she had three vaccines, but she was still infected. What are we going to do with such a presentation, in which we are now going to have these other nurses take these vaccines when they can carry the disease and infect it further? That is why, before the shift, the Finns have presented this test, a rapid antigen test, which would enable us to verify whether this person has the disease right now, so that he would be healthy and not subject specifically to these most fragile, our elderly and disabled people. It has to be said that this is actually a coercive vaccine, because the test can only be used when you have a medical reason for it and, in my view, these documents state that such a medical reason may be, for example, an anaphylactic reaction to the vaccine in the past, a severe allergic reaction. In practice, however, it is likely to be quite rare. I consider this to be very bad in principle alone, and here I quote Jaana Hallamamaa, Professor of Social Ethics, who was in an excellent interview with MTV Three in Newsextra, where she said: ‘Emergency in society is the most extreme way. Its price can be the loss of confidence, the deepening of confrontation and the creation of hostilities.” This is exactly what the government's proposal in question is and I do not think that Finland should go in this direction. We know that health care personnel take vaccines quite well, but the rest of them may have a reason why they do not. I would therefore say that if we really want to protect fragile people here, the government should, in a very hurry, bring in these rapid tests. In fact, the EU had even sent them to Finland, the EU has carried out these rapid tests for EUR 100 million, and I am surprised,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u48	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u49	Mr President! There have been a lot of speeches and quite emotional speeches. Representative Ronkainen, who has just left the Chamber, opened the debate in such a way that the interest rate policies of this government do not have a head, does not run away, and stated that this proposal, as the Finns of Finland have said almost all over the board, is already a wolf at birth — there are many arguments to be found. This is a performance of both rhetorical power and an attempt by the Arguments to bring this down. Mr President! We are now in a somewhat difficult position as political decision-makers when we have to genuinely resolve a matter in which our expertise is not sufficient. Our expertise is not sufficient. Here Mr Salmon, as chairman of the committee, said that our only chance is of course to rely on information and also to try to minimise the risks. So we do not have absolute data, but we can, through risk management, assess what is the lowest risk. Yes — Mr Rantanen, in this last speech, strongly stressed that, even if there were three vaccinations, it may be that a person is ill and capable of spreading and spreading the disease, but these are extreme exceptional situations. They're emergency situations. The vast majority of vaccinees do not get the same disease and do not spread the disease, and then, in this situation, we must try to minimise the risk. It is the only chance we, as political decision-makers, can see that we are getting facts before us and we are trying to minimise these risks. On that basis, this government proposal is not a wolf at its birth, but it is precisely taking up the right issue and trying to help in this situation, which is now becoming exceptionally difficult once again. Mr President! There is another term that has been used a lot here, that this is about the need for vaccination. I would like to take the introductory words of Mr Lindén to myself, because I am in exactly the same situation. I have a 90-year-old mother who lives in Oulunkylä and gets home care three times a day and hangs out there at home, and I have exactly the same feeling as her: how do I wish that every nurse who goes to her is absolutely healthy. In this situation, if we can only ensure it by vaccination, minimize these risks, then we will be vaccinated, vaccinated. And now it is not a question of having to take a vaccine, but of having to live under the pressure of those who are being treated or those who are being treated so that we can be genuinely treated by people who may have illnesses. At least it is the duty of society to minimise the risk of disease. Think about it. Think about it. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u50	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u51	Mr President! However, there seems to be a consensus in this Chamber that the objective of this legislation is to protect the most vulnerable, the most fragile, patients. But what we disagree with here is whether this law is proportionate to it and whether it is absolutely certain that this legislation could reduce the risk of these people getting sick, that this law, as it were, is worth being passed by Parliament. We Christian Democrats have considered this very carefully and said that this is the wrong way and, in fact, it is still inadequate in this case, because, as we know, according to current knowledge, the person who has been vaccinated can also spread the virus. We are also very concerned that this draft law, as it stands, is exacerbating the climate in an area where people are extremely burdened and tired at the moment. I have to say that I am surprised when, even under current legislation, it is possible to ask the employee whether his vaccination protection is in order, and even if the worker is not actually obliged to tell me about it, the ethical starting point for the care sector, customer orientation, will certainly create a very strong obligation to do so also for a person belonging to the medical staff. The employer can then arrange to ensure patient safety if the nurse is unable to take the vaccine for one reason or another. So, when you consider what the consequences of this legislation will be — and this is where Mr Salmon explained the way forward in the situation — the result is that, at worst, you can be deprived of your salary. So he can be arrested for his salary and his pay can be stopped. In that sense, I agree with Mr Silja Paavola's question as to whether it can be proportionate and right to do so. I think it is extraordinary that we have a rather left-wing government, in this way, attacking the situation of care workers and making it worse and certainly tightening up this climate even further. Mr President! The Christian Democrats are saying that we should get the antigen tests quickly, because they would actually be the way we could ensure that the staff or visitors in close contact do not actually have that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u52	Thank you. — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u53	Mr President! The aim of this legislation is to protect elderly people in nursing homes and patients in hospitals. It should be noted that, especially in this autumn, we have had an epidemic of non-vaccinated diseases, especially as regards the burden of intensive care. I would like to see a message from this Chamber also for health care staff that it is also useful for their own health to take vaccines, not just to protect patients or the elderly, but also themselves. Many times in this Chamber it has now been well established that the rapid test does not replace vaccines. It is a good thing that rapid testing is being increased, and that will also be the subject of a second legislative proposal today. Of course, it is also important that effective, effective means be put in place to reduce the progress and effects of the epidemic, which least affect people's lives, including effective masks and also ventilation, for example, which has been found to be of great benefit. Similarly, when returning to schools, we need to consider how we can use the means of rapid testing to keep schools open for as long as possible, if they are expected to be useful. Mr President! It is really important to listen to the views of health care staff, and the message that comes from there is that remuneration must be in line with the burden of work. That is right, as has been said here, the majority have taken the vaccines. It is not a concern for most people that vaccines should be taken when health professionals, the majority of them, know and understand that they are worth taking. Their concern is whether the remuneration corresponds to the burden of work, and this is likely to be the high risk at the moment as regards the ability and motivation of the staff. I hope that there will also be a serious focus here on the hopes and concerns that come from the field. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u54	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u55	Mr President! I really came here to tell you what's going on with this story, where it comes from. This goes for the first time that it was claimed that the vaccine protects a little from everything, almost the same way as the magic cloak in the army, but it was not said, so to speak, that after taking the vaccine you can still spread. So they brought things a little woolly here to everyone's attention. All in all, he went from government to government to try to get this recommendation, stuffing up vaccines, underestimating threats to get people to take vaccines. We got the media into this whole mess to tell you that you're almost dead if you don't take the vaccine. For some reason, this push didn’t go as far as wanted and people got quite a reaction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u69	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u70	Mr President! I will now correct here: Mr Lindén, you are well aware of the many speeches made by our parliamentary group, by the leadership of the party, that we are not opposed to vaccines. We are in favour of a national vaccination programme and we have urged people who are able to take the vaccine and want to take it, to vaccinate for their own protection. Now, if you could at last put an end to that misinformation in this Chamber. Let's talk about the right things. When you yourself often bring forth the talk of knowledge and verified information, do also as you wish and shout from it to others. The People's Party of Finland has brought up the problems of the corona pass at a very early stage, for example, and we have explained why we are opposed to it. On the radio at that turn of the month, at the beginning of this month, we raised the possibility of this rapid testing as a party, and very soon after that there were also messages from health care experts that the passport does not really prevent the spread of the disease and that is not the best way to do so, even though we were ridiculed about it and pointed out that we are anti-vaccinating because we raised the problems we had in the vaccine passport. Well, we have certainly brought up this rapid testing in time, and here representatives of Lindén, Kiljune and the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have said on many occasions that this will be established. Well, let us now go to your committee's report, which is on the basis of the vote today. In this report, you, the government parties, say, including the coalition, even the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out that it would be good to test the unvaccinated or those who have not had the disease before working shifts. It would be a possible way to reduce the risk of customers and patients. It's got information, risk analysis. In addition, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that regular testing of unvaccinated workers could therefore be an option in principle. It is then stated that testing does not, however, protect the worker from being infected, and again it is stated that it is contrary to the aims of the proposal. So you yourself say that there are problems. It is also noted that the person tested may also be infected during the test interval and infect other persons while working.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u75	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u76	Mr President! My speech isn't five minutes. It's a lot shorter, but it's so important that I wanted to get in the toilet. It would be good if adult Finns took a vaccine. But I'm against forced vaccination. Many people have understandable reasons, reasons, which is why they do not want vaccination in this corona epidemic. There's a desperate shortage of medical personnel. The number of staff can no longer be reduced, on the contrary, so forced vaccination would lead to a dangerous situation in the workplace and would further burden nurses in hospitals, nursing homes. And what about the following professional groups? Where will this be extended? There are a lot of professions where people are close to each other. Such coercion as a measure can lead to major problems, as there is also a drastic restriction of individual freedom. I've taken the shots myself, but you have to have your own choice. I believe that if you receive a corona and the vaccinations have been taken, the disease would probably be milder. That's what I believe. That's why I've taken the shots, but it has to be wrong. Tests and good precautions should be taken extensively, not coercive vaccination. I believe that the corona will visit the entire nation, and it has been said that this omicron, its birth, can even lead to the virus destroying itself. I therefore support Mr Ronkainen's rejection of the government's proposal on forced vaccination and Mr Juuso's statement. The Christian Democrats have also made a good statement. The Finns of Peru have proposed a great deal of rapid tests, so it will be immediately used. - Thank you. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u77	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u78	Mr President! There is a government proposal to amend the 230 Act on communicable diseases on a temporary basis, and in summary this is about the compulsory vaccination of health care personnel. As I have already said in this Chamber, I am very concerned that if the proposed legislative amendment goes through, the shortage of nurses in the social and health sector will become even worse. According to the government's own proposal, the unvaccinated share of social and health professionals is about 10%. If half of the non-vaccinated people took the vaccine, it is estimated that some 16,000 people in the health care sector would not be protected. They would be threatened by losing a job or at least losing a salary. — In fact, they would not lose their jobs, but has it occurred to you that one of them might resign himself from the job? I've been having a nurse problem lately. According to THL, in 2020 only 13% of the municipalities did not have recruitment problems for nurses, 57% of the municipalities had problems from time to time, and as much as 30% had recruitment problems continuously. In the middle of Christmas, Yle reported on the carnal everyday life of nurses in the middle of a pandemic. Christmas leave spends overtime on day care providers, mostly on return, if you can get free at all. Not many nurses get time off for Christmas, according to the news. Nursing staff have a working year full of corona, both working days and working weeks have been stretched. A nurse interviewed by Yle says of the past year: ‘There have been long working days,and often a six-day working week. Working days are not what is planned for the schedule; they often stretch or even begin earlier. There have been additional working days even on weekends’. He also tells us that there is not enough time and effort to engage in any special activities at home. Yle’s news points out that at the same time the nurses’ mind has been undermined by all the other work that has been left under the shadow of the corona. People are still suffering from hypertension or diabetes, wounds need to be treated, prescriptions new or new customers who need to be evaluated. In addition to these, some nurses have identified vaccine-related harm among their clients there. The leading lawyer, Matias Nyma, from Tehy, estimates that a significant proportion of the members of the organization work at Christmas. She tells me that nurses are getting tired, and it does not apply only to those who work with the corona. Interest is reflected in all other health care. Mr President! A little bit about the conversation in this Chamber. Congressman Salmon assured me that we'd be looking for another job first. Congressman Laiho said no one will be fired. Have you in the government thought at all about the possibility that health care staff who have worked for two years to treat the interest may resign themselves? Have you thought about it at all? If you are thinking about losing your salary or resigning, there is some difference if this pandemic continues for a long time. There are nurses in different situations. There are young and old, there are houseguests who may feel this as blackmail. There may be someone there who has a vaccine problem with someone close to him. There are also those who do not have a mortgage, and they may be of age, and if they are tired of their work, what will they do? Mr President! That Saramo just claimed that we, the Finns, are feeding this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u87	Thank you. — I note that a valuable debate in the Chamber is to address the representatives of the ‘representatives’. — Mr Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u88	Mr President! In this pandemic situation, the most important and most painful problem at the moment is the growing shortage of medical staff, and we will be facing this problem in the coming years, even if it is hoped that at some point the pandemic will go away. I personally fear that this bill, which we are now discussing, will have a negative impact on the availability of healthcare staff, and that is why I find this problematic. We currently have a shortage of vaccinees, testers, trackers and intensive care workers, as well as shortcomings in specialist medical care, elderly services and basic health care, and we should now send positive messages to the medical staff that they are appreciated and that they are not, as it were, subject to ultimatums that some people find problematic. I would also remind you that, in Article 48 of the Act on communicable diseases already in force, the employer is obliged to use the necessary vaccine protection staff with patients and customers susceptible to serious consequences of communicable diseases in customer and patient work. In other words, the law already in force has the potential to ensure that these fragile patients are treated specifically by those who have received good vaccination protection. So, how does this new proposal now differ from current legislation? Yes, I personally believe that the most significant change in this is precisely the possibility of suspending the payment of wages. In other words, in extreme circumstances, there is a risk that the payment of wages may be suspended during the period of incapacity for work for a reason caused by the worker, and that he is also not entitled to benefits under the Unemployment Protection Act. I do find this particular extreme sanction problematic. When I took the view that the next list of speakers was specifically made up of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance, I hope you will tell me how it is possible that the left-wing parties have adopted such an extreme sanction, which is therefore different from the possibilities of the current law. Isn't this going too far? Of course, there will be the possibility of income support, but it will also have its own delays, and it will first measure out all the funds and dwellings before there is a chance to start receiving income support. I myself have had a lot of discussions with these nurses who have opposed this proposal, and I have tried to gain confidence in these vaccines for people who are afraid of vaccines, and also by my own example to encourage them to take vaccines. But we only have people among us who, for one reason or another, have fears and doubts about the vaccines — there may be disinformation on the back of which the people are addicted as if they are, some have seen, for example, vaccine problems with Pandemrix at the time of swine flu and have decided that this is not why they are taking these vaccines. There are many reasons, but there are those people who have taken this decision strictly, and I believe that the possibility of suspending pay and also of refusing unemployment benefit are too far-reaching measures in this context. In other words, I believe that these means of protecting vulnerable persons in social and health services, combined with the possibility of rapid testing, under Article 48 of the current law, would have been sufficient and would have been the right way to do so. Then, too, it is very important to provide proper information, to answer all the questions, including the difficult questions that are asked, and also the questions that may seem to us to be taken for granted. We have to give our citizens answers. There are so many of these messages that it is not possible for everyone to respond to them, but I would like the authorities and the media to find these responses in order to improve their confidence in vaccines and in the fight against corona. Fortunately, we have a relatively high level of vaccine coverage, and it is also high in the case of health care staff, but then we have the figure of about 10%, for which these extreme sanctions can be imposed, which are certainly undesirable. We need all the nurses at work, and I do not think it is time to deepen these divisions and create such a mood that vaccines are forced, as it were, and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u89	Thank you. — Mr Ojala-Niemela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u90	Mr President! This year we have dealt with more than 120 interest rates in Parliament. That's an awful lot. In the context of this public feedback, I have learned that unfortunately the functioning of the Constitutional Committee is not well known. In Finland, the Constitutional Committee exercises prior control and evaluates in advance the constitutionality of the Government’s proposals and the relationship with international treaties. This will avoid any later finding a law unconstitutional. In Europe, for example, there is a constitutional court in many countries, where it can then be stated that the law is not constitutional in retrospect, when the law may have been in force for several years, when it is of course more difficult to turn those laws into new ones. Well, this proposal, which is now being discussed here in Parliament, that is, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on covid-19 vaccine protection for social and health care personnel, was unanimous and in accordance with the Constitution. The committee noted that regulation is an obligation for social and health care operators to ensure that services to particularly vulnerable patients and customers are provided only by staff who are protected against covid-19. The regulation can therefore be considered as a requirement for staff to be subject to a medical condition. In an expert consultation with me, expert Kaarlo Tuori aptly stated: ‘The proposed regulation does not contain a requirement for vaccination. I find it difficult to see as a restriction on personal integrity a regulation requiring a job seeker or employee to demonstrate that he or she fulfils the health conditions resulting from the nature of the job in professions whose operators are responsible for the lives or health of other persons, whether they are a traffic pilot, a fireman, a doctor or a nurse. Nor can I see in such a requirement the restriction of the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 18 of the Constitution. The right to pursue a business or profession does not mean that everyone has the right to pursue every profession. Legal conditions justified by the nature of the tasks may be imposed, whether in terms of training, health status or vaccine protection, without these conditions being considered as fundamental rights restrictions within the meaning of our fundamental rights doctrine or in violation of the equality protected by the Constitution of persons who do not have them.’ That's heavy. Well, for those who, for health reasons, are not able to take a vaccine, for example, they must be offered other work in accordance with the Employment Contracts Act. This involves job rotation, telework, lay-offs and only as a last resort — just as a last resort — the suspension of pay. As I said earlier, there are different eligibility criteria for different professions and this is comparable to the eligibility criteria for medical staff who are in contact with fragile people. The fundamental rights of non-vaccinated persons have been highlighted in this debate. Others also have fundamental rights, [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group] A few points have been raised in this debate, which I will correct: Representatives Ronkainen and Räsänen pointed out that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had mentioned that there were 55,000 people in Finland in the field of social services without vaccine protection. This is not the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. This is from a government proposal, page 14. Nor do I sign Mr Laukkanen's criticism of the procedure of the Constitutional Committee on this matter. We had extensive consultation with experts, and all the expert assessments were in one direction. There wasn't much of a crossword word there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u91	Thank you. — Representative Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the previous speaker for an excellent speech. Ideologically, as a left-winger, I think that society must always protect the weakest. Finland has done an excellent job so far, even though we have not used force, and we are not now using force, unlike in many other countries. Pragmatically, I think that this hall must believe science, the best existing knowledge, rather than a different kind of nonsense, whether it is climate change or corona, vaccines. We know the vaccine works. It protects both the vaccinated individual and society as a whole. The non-vaccinated load is many times higher in intensive care units, for example. Mr President! It is great that this debate is finally concerned about the situation of the carers. For example, the Finns of Peru were in a hurry to cut off small wages, especially from nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u101	Congressman Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u102	Mr President! I support this bill. I have to ask those who are against the bill: With a hand in your heart, would you like you or your loved ones to be treated by unvaccinated staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u107	Thank you. — And Mr Gustafsson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u108	Mr President! I am starting with this corona passport, when the previous speaker also pointed out that the level of demand for it will probably have to be raised to the three vaccines. I have now been particularly distressed morally by the fact that the Finns of Finland now very much want to highlight the fact that some or some workers in the nursing sector are going to have to do so, even though none of us want to do so, for example, if they are dismissed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u115	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u116	Mr President! The representative, Meri, spoke here, in the same way that the Finns have all used it, that there should be rapid testing first and that there should be no requirement for medical staff to have this responsibility for vaccination. He looked into the eyes of a few of us Social Democrats, Lindén, me and Gustafsson, and appealed to the question whether the problem was that the Finns of Finland put forward such a thing, that there would be rapid testing, rather than requiring vaccination. I can say, Mr Meri: we are not going from that angle to assess this issue at all. As far as we are concerned, we do not have rapid testing either, but both of them are needed, but at this point we are moving on from the fact that the first condition for the care staff is that they have been vaccinated. That is our starting point. Do we have to? The True Finns say that it is imperative: to interfere with human self-determination, it was stated,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u121	Thank you. — Mr Werner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u122	Mr President! I shall begin with Sitat: ‘I pledge my respect and conscience to help my closest friends,health anddisease,in all those activities that are aimed at maintaining health and achievinghumanity with respect, race, religion and status,without prejudice to the obligation to beresponsible. I aim to promote cooperation with different professional groups, as well as constantly developing my skills.” This is the oath that I, too, have sworn to be a nurse since I graduated. This is the oath that can only be broken once. Many of us talk only about rights, but few talk about obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, as a nurse, I believe it is my duty to safeguard the well-being of patients and the health of patients.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u130	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u131	Thank you, Mr President. There's such a lively conversation here that you don't know which one to go with. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for his speech. In his speech, he raised the very issues that I would have liked to see written in this opinion, including the views of Professor Tuori, which were very well-founded and clear. When I criticised this opinion, my criticism was about the lightness of what was in it, to which I am not used to reading the opinions or reports of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This was the reason. I am not leaving now because there is no reason to go any further, but as Mr Ojala-Niemelä will know, I usually read these papers with the ruler and I am not too critical. And even now I may not be so critical as to say that, when it is so big, this would have earned even more detailed and careful justification for this statement, which could have had the views of more than one professor. As we all know and as you all know, even better than I do, it is the opinions of the committees that raise the views of the various experts, and that is the committee's duty. But here this rush has now produced the fact that this really important information must then be taken separately from the committee's website, but it would have been good to have seen it in this regard. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u132	Thank you. — Representative Antikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u133	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I am encouraging everyone to take the vaccine because it protects against a very serious form of corona disease, but this is a voluntary decision by everyone. And unlike the left here, which may be forced by history, freedom-based democracy can never violate human self-determination in this way as it would now be violated by the government's proposal. Mr President! There has previously been talk of how the majority of nurses have given feedback, hope that nurses will take the vaccine or hope that other nurses will take the vaccine, and this is in my view true by the fact that the majority of nurses and other people working with the very sick or weak have taken the vaccine. But if a nurse or someone else working with them does not want or is unable to take a vaccine, for example because of an allergy, then the solution would be to find them some other job, such as at reception, where they would not expose the most vulnerable. It must also be pointed out here that, if we really want to protect the most vulnerable, the solution is to increase the speed test.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u142	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u143	Mr President! I just received reprimands from my words, and you are quite right, they were justified. We talked about it just now, it was also pointed out, it was right, but I would like to rebuke you for the fact that two representatives, Mr Lindén and Mr Gustafsson, are constantly allowed here to do the same thing that others are accused of here. I do not think that this is fair. Representative Saramo there said that we foment people, that researched information is not believed or something similar. True Finns have always believed in researched information, but it is never wrong to speculate, which is why something is not logical or why something does not work. Mr Saramo then spoke of distortion, he himself is guilty of a similar distortion in his next sentence, tried to claim that when 90% of people are vaccinated, they all agree that vaccination is an OK. I'm vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u150	Thank you. — I note that there is a debate here on a government proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases to Parliament. I hope that the debate will focus on that now. And then I would like to say that the President is chairing the floor when the plenary session is in progress. — Representative Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u151	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it is quite clear that this pandemic is bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u156	Thank you. — To Mr Peltokanka, the President shall preside over this plenary session at his own discretion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u157	Mr President! Now that much has been said about this rapid testing and then I think the government has underestimated our good proposal and its operation, I would like to give you a few examples: One of the events with the most corona infections has been the Boardmasters in Cornwall, the southwestern tip of England, in mid-August. There, 5,000 participants were infected. In Finland, too, there was news of the infectious disease. The only thing that was not reported in the Finnish press was that all participants were required to have a corona passport. That's 5,000 corona infections between vaccine-passed vaccine recipients. Mr President! So it has been a long time since vaccinees with a vaccine passport infect the corona forward, even other vaccinated ones. There are already a huge number of examples. Today, news has come from Keuruu. Some kind of council seminar has been held there, and the mayor tells us that masks were used at the event. Now, I'm quoting the Evening Times article: ‘NooraPajarin kommenttaan advocacy to Mayor NooraPajarin kommentta. He himself has obtained a positive result from the home test and is waiting for the official test. According to Pajari, at an event like this, you were surprised. ‘ The masks were almost all used, and other instructions were followed. Apparently, wearing masks and hand hygiene do not prevent the spread of the disease. It has surprised me.” According to Pajari, many of the people who were present have told him that they were double-vaccinated, some even triple-vaccinated. ‘ This was a work seminar in the cool indoors, not a leisure-time leisure opportunity. If it spreads like this, the question arises where it wouldn't spread," Pajari says. ‘We sat with masks on, and there were hand sanitizers, and yet it spread.’ According to Pajari, people were reminded the day before that no symptoms were allowed, masks must be used and good hand hygiene must be remembered. According to Pajari, however, the management of the city can be managed.” There are now two examples in favour of this rapid testing. I wonder why this is not understood. In particular, I see this as something similar to what was done in the eastern neighbor. This is something like that in my opinion, as is limited by a person's own freedom to choose and try to take care of himself and health in good condition. I believe that this government proposal is some form of blackmail or tyranny, and I wonder how the coalition is in favour of this so much. Mr President! A little bit of vaccination for children, because we have not decided on it here in Parliament, but decided somewhere else: according to the general news, experts were asked about the reasons and timetable for vaccination of children and young people in February of this year, and the question was answered by THL’s Chief Medical Officer and Director of the Tampere Vaccine Research Centre. The Yle case asked, among other things, what conditions could start vaccination of children, i.e. what kind of corona virus or its variant should be that vaccination of children should become topical. This chief medical officer replied that ‘that theirability of his children would be more common and more serious than those of his child’. The question as to the situation in which children would be vaccinated,he answers:‘Then the burden of childhood disease is better This director continued:‘If the If the vaccine provides long-term protection, it will In addition,the Director stated Mr President! Now in December, 22.12. It was reported that Coronar vaccinations are also extended to those aged between 5 and 11. Until then, only those at risk had been vaccinated in children between the ages of 5 and 11. The Government decided on that date and the Regulation entered into force on the following day, 23.12. I think it is a good time to ask: were these conditions set out by experts from the THL and the Vaccination Research Centre for vaccination of children met? I do not think they were fulfilled. 22.12. According to this doctor, who has been interviewed earlier by Yle, ‘the serious illness of basic healthy children is rare and vaccination of children is not expected to have the greatest impact on the management of Mr President, this is a matter of concern and concern for an individual representative of this kind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u158	Thank you. — Representative Bracelet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u159	Mr President! We need all health professionals to work: those who have posts, those who are part-time employees, those who are job workers, those who are not currently in the industry but still professionals in the field, those who are Finnish and who are currently working elsewhere. We don't need to blame any social worker. We do not need new lines of division. We need encouragement. As the Finns have said here in many speeches, we encourage everyone to take vaccination. But in our opinion, any pressure is not the answer. We should have had a debate from the outset on the positive aspects of vaccinations, but also on the weaknesses of vaccinations. As long as weaknesses and negative issues are kept hidden and people do not even want to talk about them, but people who want to have a proper debate about the problems, such as the leaking of this vaccine passport at the moment, will be silenced for so long we will have a problem. We're about to be born with an endless cycle of vaccination. We cannot prevent all infections. They don't want to use speed tests here. And as far as vaccines are concerned, it is very strange that it is said and assumed that all the other less accessible means, the alternatives, have already been exhausted, and that is of course not the case. Just as the Finns of Peru have said, rapid tests are an unused resource that should be introduced immediately. I support Mr Ronkainen's motion for rejection, and I would like to say that we need much more listening and respect for each other in this Chamber than we need to talk about unpleasant things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u160	Congressman Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u161	Mr President! A few more comments on the subject: According to the official truth, vaccines do not have much side effects. However, I have just read on the European Parliament's website a resolution stating that a fund is being set up for the victims of covid-19 vaccines, a compensation fund. According to its resolution, about 75,000 people are suffering from neurological damage from vaccines, and we are talking about up to 5,000 deaths — that is, on the official website of the European Parliament, please note. It has been said here that some kind of facts and research should be followed. A few months ago, the Prime Minister announced that when the vaccine coverage exceeds 80%, then normal life begins, this was reported. The old people say once a con is gullible, but twice a con is a fool. Who do we want to be? What facts are we going to believe? The statements of the professors of law have been hailed here without remembering that those statements are in fact opinions — perhaps enlightened opinions, perhaps learned opinions, but opinions. They are not facts, they are interpretations of complex basic legal arrangements, and they cannot be declared here as any truth. Earlier, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Ojala-Niemelä spoke a little over what I said in my previous speech. It is true that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that a corona pass would be defensible for non-essential services, but it was not really the most important part of my speech, but that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was also critical of extending the corona pass to the workplace, and this proposal specifically concerns the extension of the corona pass to the workplace. This was the thorn in my criticism and the point which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs might perhaps want to draw attention to in future in order to be consistent with its own statements and criticisms. I believe that what no one has taken a position on in this debate is what is being done to the unanimous — please note, unanimous — of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the effect that this proposal and this coercive law would result in the resignation of medical staff to the extent that the ability of society to provide health services would be jeopardised. What is the government going to do about this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u162	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u163	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä made an extremely good point, which I myself tried to point out a couple of times earlier: how it is when you don't talk about things with their real names. One thing to note is that there has also been a clear talk here about the fact that if you are unable to accept the work that you normally have done on a daily basis, you are looking for a replacement job or you are looking for an even more replacement job or even more replacement work. Of course, it is easy for many people on the public side to understand that taxpayers' money can be used to look for any kind of paper spinning in there so that it can be done, but this will not be the case on the private side. They're going to have to patch it up for the individual employee because of his coercion. It is guaranteed that the private side will by no means go to put papers around the time. This cannot be done on the private side, let alone in the case of an entrepreneur. The entrepreneur has no choice in this matter. There is no way he can come up with a solution so that he can think of something else to do for himself. And what has not been said much with you today is precisely what has been said — when rapid testing has been carried out — that when vaccinations have been taken, at least more information has come to me from the Hospital District of HUS, for example, that has not been able to get to the test even though there have been symptoms. In that sense, it seems a little challenging: do we really want to be sure that the people who care for the fragile are sure, guaranteed, healthy? This is what I'm calling for. Why can't it be verified? Why is it so hard? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u164	Congressman Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u165	Mr President! We Finns are in favour of all measures for health safety and we urge citizens to act on a voluntary basis. Of course, for us the only problem with this proposal is this. When we were dealing with the corona pass in time, we were concerned that once we went to this kind of game, so how far do we go to take it? We were then assured that this corona passport will only come into force in the necessary cases and in the restricted areas, but then the corona pass was extended and introduced in areas where there were no restrictions. This voluntary service was brought in, people's rights were also restricted in such situations. Now you see what I'm saying. In the case of compulsory vaccinations, when a person is no longer able to do the job in which he is currently in, for example, if he has not been vaccinated, there is also such concern as whether this will be extended, for example later on, to other categories of workers, on a voluntary basis or so on. When that gate is opened, when this principle has been accepted at a general social level, that people can be obliged to do so in the event of a corona situation, then once people get used to this idea, the government will be able to take it forward in the same way as with the corona pass. I would like to ask you now and ask for an honest answer, government parties: will you extend these compulsory vaccinations now that this gate has been opened for the nurses? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u166	In the course of the debate, a proposal for rejection and two proposals for statements have been tabled, so it is necessary to put the matter to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u167	We shall now proceed to the adjourned sitting at 4:37 p.m. and to item 3 of the order of business. In the debate, Jari Ronkainen, supported by Juha Mäenpää, has proposed that the bill be rejected. In addition, with the support of Kaisa Juuso Arja Juvonen, the debate has been followed by an objection. In addition, with the support of Mr Antero Laukkanen, Päivi Räsänen has made a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u168	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u169	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation. Congressman Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u170	Mr President! It is a pleasure to support and support this unanimous proposal to exempt home tests from VAT, and it is also very important that this proposed reduction in tax is fully passed on to consumer prices and that this is followed up. But, President-in-Office, the problem at the moment is that, as a result of the enormous increase in demand, home tests have stopped on the shelves of shops and pharmacies and are difficult to find in practice. In Finland, it is rather late to wake up to this usefulness of home tests, and so demand has only now exploded into the hands, as it were. In other parts of Europe, the demand for home tests has been high for a year and has also been reflected in prices. In Germany, for example, the same test costs considerably less than in Finland. It is also very important that the quality of home tests is carefully monitored. For example, tests must not be allowed to freeze on the way. There have also been sightings of fraud companies in the production of home tests in Europe, and these can emerge more easily when big demand is exploited. One sign that the test is genuine is that it contains instructions for use in Finnish. At the moment, however, there are also tests in stores that do not contain these instructions for use in Finnish but which are accompanied by instructions for use in Finnish. Oversight in such a situation is indeed important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u171	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u172	Mr President! Finland has been very successful with many indicators in the fight against the corona epidemic, but there has been a lack of action in such a way that measures taken quickly in other parts of Europe – the corona pass, rapid tests and the capacity of the entire healthcare system – have unfortunately been delayed in Finland. This presentation is warmly welcome: this would make it easier to get quick tests. Of course, the concern is that the tests are already over, and that is why it would always have been good for this type of presentation to be at an earlier stage in order to be able to prepare for them on the trade side as well. But it is important that this was dealt with quickly and that the report is unanimous. What is also unanimous here is that we drew attention to further preparation. We considered it very important that other VAT exemptions under EU law, which could be considered appropriate in the fight against interest rates, should be evaluated in the future. The Committee believes that the exemption from VAT should also be clarified without delay with regard to materials which would also apply to private service providers in the future, and that the assessments should also take into account the neutrality of competition in the exemption of VAT. So in this report, the Committee on Finance wants to promote greater facilitations for VAT on corona tests and protective equipment, which has already been demanded by the Assembly since March 2020. I consider this to be a real gain in terms of employment, that now, unanimously, this is the position of Parliament if and when this report is adopted. I would like to point out that the government of the country has been involved in calling for legislation for the Commission to implement a zero tax rate for the private sector and for it to be accepted in procurement. This has been done elsewhere in the EU, the government of our country has promoted and demanded this at EU level, but for some reason this has not been introduced in Finland. In other EU countries, this is possible for procurement, but not for the Finnish private sector. At the moment, only the public sector in Finland can acquire protective equipment and supplies at a zero tax rate. I think it is very important that the capacity of the entire health care sector is strongly mobilised to tackle this epidemic. I very much hope that this report will be carried out quickly, and I hope that the government will be able to submit a legislative proposal in January following the report, so that Parliament can deal with it quickly. I would like to say here that it is very important that the whole capacity should be mobilised in order to deal with this epidemic, and this should be brought to an end. And really good is that occupational health care will be introduced. When there is a discussion at that next point, it is good to consider, too, why the bill is not urgent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u173	Congressman Pirttäähti, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u174	Mr President! It is a good government proposal that VAT on home tests be reduced for one year. Of course, there is still an excellent report from the Committee on Finance on which we are dealing. Indeed, the aim of this reduction in value added tax is precisely to reduce consumer prices, and it is hoped that trade will also work in this way, that this will go directly to prices and reduce the potential cost burden on consumers to make these tests available. I hope that these tests will be used in schools as well as in the workplace and elsewhere. Of course, at the moment there have been problems with the availability of the tests in the Christmas season, but I am sure that this will also be resolved when we go to the later part of next year. Of course, the significance of these home tests has increased. We, too, at the Pirkanmaa Hospital District, are currently recommending that if you have a symptomatic person and then you can do this home antigen test, then you do not necessarily have to take that PCR test after this, when you can also determine the condition of this disease and then be at home in peace. Indeed, this report also involves the neutrality of competition on the private and public sides, as has already been mentioned here. It will also be clarified in connection with other protective equipment in the course of next year, hopefully with a rapid rhythm, that we will then be able to get the VAT on these various items to the same level on both the public and the private side. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u175	Thank you. — And Mrs Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u176	Mr President! It is good that efforts are being made to reduce the cost of rapid testing by temporarily abolishing the tax. This must, of course, be seen in terms of how the effects are reflected in prices, and then, if necessary, react if these tax reductions are not reflected in consumer prices. I also hope that we will find out how consumers, people, can get these tests even more cheaply, possibly also free of charge, as in many countries, and whether this would be helpful in slowing down the epidemic. However, even after the abolition of this tax, tests are now quite expensive if they need to be used regularly, and in some countries rapid tests have also been made available directly to consumers. Of course, as a major buyer, the State could also obtain a large reduction in the amount of these purchases and, in organising such a more extensive rapid testing, so that testing would no longer be at least at that price if it were seen to be useful in assessing the total cost of human illness on the other side, if the testing practices were not in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u177	Thank you. — And Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u178	Mr President! In the referral debate I criticized where this sort comes from, that a little downgraded test taxation. In many other countries, when tests are given to people free of charge and testing can be done free of charge — society provides such a service — in Finland, they have to pay for them. So, the worst is a poor presentation in principle. In the referral debate, some also suspected that the tax reduction for these tests would not actually go to consumer prices, but to wholesale or test manufacturers' margins, and, according to the reliable information I have received, the discount has already passed on to wholesale prices — even now, before the Parliament's rubber stamp has fallen on this law. We've been pulled out of our lips, so to speak. Here's a little market economy lesson for the socialist government. For a capitalist, the free money of society is good when it is given on a platter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u179	Congressman Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u180	Mr President! This information presented by Mr Mäkelä was interesting in itself. I personally believe that the degree of competition on the market for these tests is certainly that this will also have an impact on the consumer price. It is important and reasonable that consumers should also be able to carry out self-testing at the lowest possible level, with VAT being temporarily removed from the tests. But when we are also discussing the best possible experts in this field, which we in Parliament have behind us, I would also be interested to challenge the question of whether the technology of antigenic pitching should also be used more widely in the fight against the pandemic as a whole. Of course, the self-sustaining test is a small cost to the consumer, but we, as taxpayers, will each have a huge bill for this big test, and once these antigenic rapid tests have proved to be really good and effective, and when the result is obtained immediately, we will also be able to combat the spread of the disease further. For example, in the Hospital District of Lapland throughout this pandemic, considerable good results have been achieved in the fight against the epidemic, precisely because of the use of these antigenic plagues. And what is still best from the taxpayer's point of view, of course, is that their price is only a fraction of the price of PCR tests. Could there be an even wider solution here, at least as regards the financial burden of the epidemic and the pandemic in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u181	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u182	Mr President! First of all, to Mr Auto, it was precisely in that proposal for a statement by the Christian Democrats that this idea was explicitly stated that these antigen tests and their regular use would enable us to combat this epidemic, because then we would have the knowledge, for example, of the possible carrying of a virus by such nurses as those who are, for example, becoming strangers to people in a more fragile position. This would be a good way of preventing this virus from spreading and raising awareness of whether or not it is the carrier of the infection. To this performance itself: I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kosk, who is still here, for having done a good job in committee and for bringing about a unanimous report. At the end of that, it was absolutely crucial that we found it in the committee's Christmas spirit and compromised the words in such a way that we also received these opposition views in this report. First of all, there is the fact that this VAT reduction goes directly to prices. It is a shared state of will for all, and so is the competitive neutrality of the private and public sectors, which Mr Pirttila has already spoken very well about here. It is important that, when these protective equipment becomes more proposals in January, this issue is in the root of the investigation and is now able to ensure that, in many other countries, this temporary EU directive has been used, so too, then the private side, which, however, is responsible in many municipalities for home visits and similar visits, for example on the elderly side, would receive this VAT reduction for these protective equipment. I hope that in this Parliament, in January, when more of these proposals are coming, we will be able to move forward and that this time in the Ministry of Finance will be used to resolve this issue of competitiveness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u183	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u184	Mr President! After all, this proposal provides for a temporary reduction of VAT on interest-rate tests until the end of 22, and this is a welcome proposal. It could have come earlier, which would have allowed faster use of these rapid tests in Finland, as has been done in other European countries. It is now important to take into account and monitor the fact that VAT is also passed on to consumer prices and to the user level. The report by the Committee on Finance also takes the view that other exemptions from VAT, which can be considered appropriate in the fight against covid-19, need to be clarified without delay: could VAT exemption also apply to these covid materials, as this is possible at EU level. And it would also be important to assess that it would also apply to private service providers, so that public and private would be on the same line when it comes to such a pandemic, which is our common enemy and which we want to eradicate from society. Then, Mr President, to this extended use of rapid tests by Mr Automotive. I agree that we could also use rapid tests as so-called formal rapid tests more than is currently being used. Tests are largely PCR tests, and they are more expensive, taking more time. We should assess what would be the subjects of the rapid tests for which they could be used as so-called 'official rapid tests'. It is cheaper, it is faster, and it also responds to that need more quickly and makes the process smoother. In that sense — and there has also been good results in Lapland as regards the use of rapid tests — they would certainly also have their place as official tests, along with home tests.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u185	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u186	Mr President! You know, with a stick in the eye that remembers the old ones. Well, I'm talking about the conversation. Now there are no Finns in the House, but although there was quite a lot of discussion about this test issue, I did not go on to ask for a further comment on that debate, but I would have reminded you that in May 20, when this corona crisis had lasted for two or three months, I made public a statement that was easy to find with these electronic tools, and it says that if there was a reliable corona virus test that would cost EUR 10 and that every Finn could do once a month, it would be easy to eradicate the epidemic, but with a 200-euro labour-intensive test this is difficult. I am sure that there was some wishful thinking involved, but this was the idea, however, that I am positive about these rapid tests. I have understood and interpreted that what it has so to speak in Finland has been that there have been differences of opinion between the authority of the laboratory sector, let me say, on these matters. I myself, could I say, have been directly in favour of the view that Mr Autto pursued here and that the medical districts of the north have used far more than the medical districts here in the south: these antigen tests. There are calculations to be made about that. After all, in this whole world of diagnostics — it is, of course, a science of its own, and I am not an expert on it — there are concepts of sensitivity, that is, sensitivity and specificity, which can then be compared with different tests. But the very fact that these rapid tests are so much cheaper makes it possible to do much more with the same money, so that even though they are not so accurate, we actually find as much, if not more, positive and then we can isolate people and avoid infections in that way. I have also been concerned to some extent about whether, at a time of such a difficult crisis, when we are talking about the loss of the economy, which is a billion-dollar category — of course, when we start to add up — economics, that is, everything we do, whether it is about vaccination or testing, should be as economic as possible. It is easy to think that they are small costs in this large part, but that is not the case. If I remember correctly, I wonder if it was EUR 1.3 billion what we set aside for testing in 21. After all, it was not all used up, and there will be savings in a certain way, but in any case, economics must always be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u187	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u188	Mr President! This proposal and this report are excellent because this will reduce the cost of testing. Just as Mr Lindén said, and so has Mr Laiho, we have been talking about this before. I remember when a representative Lindén brought it up here too, and that was just the right wishful thinking at the time. Now, however, we are in a situation where these tests are really needed. Today a colleague told me that he had bought a test for everyone, for the whole family, and used it during this Christmas. I think it is precisely that health-security behaviour. But not everyone can afford to buy these tests if they are very expensive. That is why this reduction in VAT on rapid tests is extremely welcome. All in all, just as Mr Laiho rightly pointed out here, it would be worth discussing this in the EU how this VAT could behave in such a way that it could be used to enable everyone to have access to protective equipment and to have access to these tests. Here, when we were talking about these protective equipment, let me just remember when in the spring of 2020, when we became in need of a huge number of protective equipment, then I asked the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health who would now give those protective equipment to those individuals when, for example, the municipality has entered into a contract with an elderly care facility, with a small home or with a service housing, and whether they should be purchased by its private, when they have not been taken into account in the agreements and in the funding. Many small homes and small businesses were in real trouble. It was then given the advice that, yes, it is precisely this municipality, which has concluded a contract, to ensure those protective devices even for the private. Well, unfortunately, the situation has now reached a point where municipalities are unable to provide private protective equipment, and now, however, there is a huge need for such protective equipment in the services of the elderly, for example. Then, when I asked again about the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, they told me that the municipalities receive interest subsidies, they can apply for it, and then the municipalities will receive the compensation when they give to the individuals with whom this service agreement exists. But how could it be when I checked, however, that the municipalities cannot be protected by these corona grants? So now there is a data gap, and I think that this should be corrected, because there is no way that private small homes have been able to take into account the fact that such a pandemic would occur, and they will not be able to apply for that assistance through the TEM again. So somebody's got a problem with this. This law is good, but we should also correct this other problem of protection that would be health-safe. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u189	Thank you. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u190	Mr President! Briefly, this government proposal on VAT-free interest rate tests is a good one and is to be welcomed. At the same rate as this is now taking place, I believe that the government could have extended this duty-free to cover protective equipment, masks and also decontamination and cleaning equipment. It would not have been so important for the state economy in these challenges that we are now facing together here, but for many people who, in addition to the corona tests, have to obtain these protective equipment, masks and desifications, this VAT exemption would also have played a major role in them. That is why I am disappointed in this motion. I think it is incomplete, but I am in favour of it, because this is an important issue for the test to be exempt from VAT.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u191	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u192	Mr President! I am in favour of this bill on the abolition of VAT on rapid tests. There are now no representatives of the Finns of Finland in the Chamber, but I am surprised, for example, at what Mr Mäkelä has said, in which he criticises this too. It is typical of the Finns who criticize everything but have no choice as to how things should be done. Mr Essayah, I would like to say to you that rapid tests do not replace vaccinations, under no circumstances, but, of course, they are a good addition to this whole and certainly bring security and also a sense of safety to people. Of course, it is good — when we value science — to find out what their true degree of reliability is. I myself at least assume that if there is a positive result, then we will go to a laboratory-confirmed test, but the negative test result is not always a negative test result, and we will need further research on this. Mr President! I believe that it is up to the government to ensure that there are enough of these tests in Finland to allow people to use them when we recommend them. Just as Mr Kopra said earlier, it would also be good if there were no VAT on these other corona control instruments, such as disinfectants and masks. This raises some questions from citizens, particularly as to why masks are not VAT-free. The fact is that there is a tax deduction for the masks used between home and work if the employer does not offer them, but it may not be sufficient for everyone — I am thinking in particular of pensioners and others who, of course, have to move around shops and so on and use masks, which can cost a lot of money over a month. Mr President! I am in favour of this bill, but just as Mr Kopra said, it could have been a little more complete.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u193	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u194	Mr President! Indeed, it was good to hear expert colleagues' views that this antigen technology could become even more important in the future, even when official tests are carried out. There is good experience of this in the northern medical districts, and it is not a small matter at all. As Mr Lindén described, more than one billion classes have been set aside for the coming year and this past year to carry out these tests, and if, indeed, this antigen technology reaches a tenth of what has been paid for in the past for testing, then it will also be possible to save billions of dollars just from the point of view of the state economy, when the state has promised the municipalities to fully compensate for all the costs that this pandemic situation is becoming for the municipalities. To Mrs Essayah, I would like to say that this contribution made by the Christian Democrats in the previous paragraph was in itself good and proper and in the right direction, but I really think that this is not a question of either-or-thought, but of both—and indeed. For this pandemic to end, we need immunity to all people in the world, both in Finland and widely through vaccines, and as long as this pandemic is on, we need testing to prevent the pandemic from getting worse and protect the most vulnerable people. In this respect, this government proposal is now very good that the price of home tests is falling and the threshold for testing is falling.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u195	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u196	Thank you, Mr President. For representatives of Autto and Kauma: Indeed, vaccines are needed but there is also a need for this antigen test, i.e. there is no confrontation, but these are needed. In addition, health masks are still needed, distances are needed, hygiene is needed. With all these measures, we must fight this corona virus. In that sense, I think it is important that we in Finland continue to increase this vaccine coverage. As I have said before, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group is probably the most vaccinated group in this house, and in that sense our group does not think that we should take a vaccine, but we have just said that this legislative proposal, which was discussed in the previous paragraph, is the so-called vaccine obligation adopted here by the majority of Parliament, we do not consider it a proportionate way of taking this matter forward. In that sense, we fear that it will lead to opposition and neglect of other health - safety measures. That is why we also made this statement, which clearly states that we need these antigen tests. In that sense, it is important that now, in this draft law, the VAT on home tests should be reduced and, therefore, this matter should be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u197	Thank you. — And Mr Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u198	Mr President! I think there has been a good debate here on this bill and report, too, as it was on the same subject that was put to the vote. I think it was very good that the various groups here are pointing out that they are not opposed to vaccination and vaccines. We know the significance of vaccines in Finland to reduce our various cases of disease and what has been done in the world: more health. Since I know that vaccination alone is not enough, these different tests are also important, but just as Mrs Essayah has said here and everyone else of you, we need security intervals, we need protective devices. This is exactly what we need... If we are talking about hybrid influence in general in this world, that is, if that is what needs precisely that kind of hybrid influence, that is, a variety of actions are needed. I am a little concerned about that if we only look at one thing in society. We will never get out of this if we make such a black and white picture of this corona situation and the pandemic situation, which cannot be used and what can be used. Of course we will be against the Constitution at some point, and I am certainly not in favour of forced vaccination, certainly not, but we must go out and find ways to get rid of this evil disease. We currently have young people in that ICU, and we have been able to read in the media today how nurses, my colleagues there who care for these young patients, see before their eyes when these young patients die. We cannot be confident that a young person will survive this, or that I will only have a corona with mild symptoms. We can't trust it. That's why we really have to do what we have to do to use all these methods. Vaccination is a rock base, one stone base, but as we are aware, this virus does not bow down to images, so to speak, but changes shape all the time and needs new means. That is why we need to have a variety of tools in the toolbox, and this is precisely one test. And what has just been voted on: of course, antigen testing is needed to complete it. It's not either—or, it's both—that. We also need new technology. I warmly recommend that we also invest in development, research and development work, that tests be obtained that are even more certain. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u199	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u200	Mr President! I was inspired by Mr Risiko's wise speech just now and, after a moment of reflection, I decided to ask for the floor. I hope that this will be understood in the right way. I have practiced the history of health care, and although now the corona epidemic is quite different — I stress this, quite differently — from tuberculosis, we actually have a dramatic but interesting phase in Finnish history from there between World War I and World War II, when between 5,000 and 8,000 people died each year from tuberculosis. It was definitely our biggest national disease — it is a bacterial disease for which, of course, there were no medicines at the time, and effective drugs were only obtained after the wars — but even then it was necessary for Finnish society to spin. Well, of course, we were mainly an agricultural-dominated society, and life had been structured in many other ways very differently than today, but we were then built a separate hospital facility for these patients alone. We had an extensive Anti-Tuberculosis Association. For example, when I came to Turku in the early '70s to study, students were subjected to mandatory lung X-rays specifically to screen for tuberculosis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u201	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u202	Mr President! I followed the debate on this VAT reduction in my room, and I thank the Members for using very heavy speeches. We recognize not only the necessity of this test but also the fact that to some extent prices have been running away and even randomness. Here you can take a number of examples of the international situation and the situation in Finland. On my own visit abroad, I recognise test situations where there is no euro or very small test compensation, including when it is needed for air travel. When visitors come to Finland, which is now coming to us too, in practice some of the guests will refrain from coming because the cost of testing for the return flight is closer to 300 euros. If you've got a bigger family with you, that's gonna be a fatal price. So in this respect, there is air in these prices, and the market economy may not now work in the way that market economy advocates here many times suggest, but in this situation there is a little like this kind of monopoly, where it can be priced quite unreasonably, and consumers, individual citizens, people, are in this rather vulnerable situation. What is important is that this reduction in VAT is aimed at making the prices of these tests reasonable and better, but at some point we should be able to see through this too, so that there is no such robbery farming.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u203	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u204	Mr President! Let's be brief. Representative Lindén here recalled tuberculosis, and I have to say: my own nursing career I have started at the TB hospital, Härmä Hospital, and when you mentioned this history of havina and what happened with TB treatment, this is a little bit similar in our corona situation, although it is not entirely comparable, as you said. But even then the vaccine was started for that reason — and it was found, even on the website of THL, the National Institute for Health and Welfare — that the vaccine specifically prevents bad forms of disease. I've been treating someone with brain tuberculosis myself, and I know what that means. That's when they started developing those vaccines. Not all came to benefit, much perished, it is said that at that time at the worst time every hour, and it was a bad time, but a vaccine was developed. It didn't help all the cases, but it prevented the most difficult ones. The same thing is going to happen very far in Korona. This vaccine doesn't stop everyone. The vaccines are developing all the time, but if we can avoid hospitalization and the most severe cases of disease and death... Human life is so important that we must all defend it at all costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u205	Thank you. — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u206	Mr President! At the moment, you can get a test free of charge, and if we switch to a rapid test, which is already partly recommended by the authorities, I would wonder if this test could also be obtained at free or very low prices. This proposal, which is good, does not provide an adequate answer to this question yet, and of course it could be thought that this home testing might perhaps be cheaper and at least burden less health care staff than the actual testing that has so far been trusted. The market economy is, of course, operating as a market economy in such a situation where demand is high. These tests are wanted and almost forced to be obtained, and then prices tend to rise, and that is why, in my previous speech, I asked whether the State could also act as a buyer and possibly as a large wholesale buyer and also get prices down. Of course, we must all find a lasting solution to lower the cost of home testing, and we must be particularly careful to ensure that the abolition of the tax does not go down there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u207	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u208	Mr President! We are now dealing with this abolition of VAT on home testing, which is a necessary proposal, but I wanted to raise this point again, which was raised here by Mrs Holopainen. When the authorities recommend home testing, that is exactly how it is. I myself see it as a problem in a certain way when recommending home tests, if those home tests are not available and at a low price. This proposal, for its part, reduces consumer prices — or should do so — i.e. the price of these home tests will fall, but if the authorities recommend home tests, even if they are the primary test, if they suspect the corona infection, then they should also be easily available, first of all, so that they can be bought in shops and pharmacies — at present they are not, in many places, the end of many places — and the price should also be reasonable. This is certainly something that needs to be clarified and evaluated with a very fast timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u209	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I'm opening a conversation. — — — — Presentation, Minister Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u210	Mr President! The present presentation is designed to ensure and facilitate access to vaccination to protect insured persons against covid-19 disease and to facilitate the employer's ability to provide these vaccines in their occupational health care. The reimbursement rate for the vaccination measure for the Korona vaccine under the Health Insurance Act would be increased to EUR 16 per vaccination measure. The amount of compensation would thus increase from the current EUR 10 to EUR 6. The reimbursement costs of the compensation for the vaccination measure would be financed from State resources. Mr President! The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. No amendment is proposed to the entry into force of the Act amending the Health Insurance Act, i.e. until 30 June 1962. Other temporary changes to the Health Insurance Act related to covid-19 are also valid until the end of June.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u211	Thank you. — And Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u212	Mr President! A concrete and clear legislative proposal, which is still short and which is why we do not need long speeches as such. However, while I was reading and reflecting and mirroring this in the recent debate, there were quite a few French lines on the note, but I am trying to stay within this three-minute space. My first point is that this is not a new law now. Now that we have discussed why health care has not been so and so much exploited and so much so, I would like to remind you that for the year ending 18 February, the government adopted a bill HE 13/2021, which had then passed the parliamentary process so that it was enacted on 11 March 2021. That was the $10 compensation, and I went over it yesterday and I remember the committee reading. It heard 15 expert opinions, which were largely, in fact, all, positive, but then there was a dispute as to whether it was the right or the wrong compensation. One of the opinions said that it should be between EUR 25 and EUR 30, together with EUR 20, and then THL said that EUR 5 would be appropriate, and KT, the municipal employers said that EUR 10 is definitely too much. Well, that's when the 10 euros came to an end. Has the EUR 10 been the reason that last year there has not been so much of these in occupational health care, or is it the case that municipalities have focused on large mass vaccinations, which go through 10 patients per hour of vaccinations, and in that way, of course, the age groups that were first in priority, i.e. the elderly, who were not even in occupational health care? When vaccines were scarce, then, of course, prioritising was the right thing to do. Well, we are now in a new situation: there are enough vaccines available and a third vaccination is all very much awaited. I myself have voluntarily booked it on January 24th, when I come six months from the second vaccine. I haven't rushed into it since. But I would now like to point out that perhaps the political debate around this has been somewhat too intense. Now that you read that government’s proposal, it is estimated that some 300,000 of these would be assigned to occupational health care, and so far this year, in the year ending, there have been 60,000 made. It accounts for about 3 percent of the 13 million vaccines that will then be carried out, while in Finland all, or about 85%, may then have the three vaccines. A significant and good thing, not to criticise this, but this cost-accounting debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u213	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u214	Mr President! Indeed, this bill is warmly welcome. The tax on this vaccination measure, which is carried out in occupational health care, will be increased from EUR 10 to EUR 16. After all, the bill did not go to the consultation, but everyone who was consulted was in favour of this, and this is welcome. That is right, this alone is not enough to involve occupational health care rapidly. I would ask the Minister whether regulations or other measures are intended to facilitate the way in which occupational health care can be included. It's been part slow. In the capital region, for example, we would like HUS to coordinate this, but there has been some confusion about what is legally possible, and that is why we need measures to facilitate how municipalities can transfer their responsibilities. After all, we are now negotiating with occupational health care and also with the employer, and if the big regions want to speed this up quickly, there is still a need for government assistance. I hope that this kind of amendment of the regulation will come soon, and I will ask whether it is coming. This is an urgent measure. I wonder when Lindén here is underestimating that there is a small group that could be vaccinated with this. 1.9 million people are in occupational health care. Minister Kiuru has said that the rate of vaccination is too slow. THL has said there are no perpetrators, but there are vaccines. It would therefore be necessary to have all the means available, occupational health care and also pharmacies. I therefore wonder and ask, Mr President, the Council of Presidents, why this was not urgent. Why wait until February or somewhere while the third round in the rest of the Nordic countries is being vaccinated as a matter of urgency? The Minister, Denmark and Norway have taken the pharmacies strongly on board. In Norway alone, pharmacies receive 100,000 third vaccinations a week. It would be urgent to get the vaccinations started before the end of the year. So I ask about a stronger involvement of occupational health care, whether there is going to be a regulation, a regulation for this, and I also ask about pharmacies when the Pharmacy has made a report that there are already a hundred pharmacies with health care professionals who could immediately start vaccination and some 440 pharmacies after a small education. In other parts of Europe, millions of people have been vaccinated in a pharmacy. Is it possible that this legislative amendment could be made? And why is it needed? Because public health care is very heavily burdened. In HUS, heart surgery has had to be postponed, among other things, in children. We need care debt, care for people, public health care. That's where the medical staff is really stressed out. It is therefore important that occupational health care and, hopefully, pharmacies should be included. Pharmacies could also test, as in the rest of Europe. Estonia, for example, has already carried out rapid tests and has been involved in the testing of pharmacies. So these are what I am asking and I thank you for this bill. I think this is urgent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u215	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u216	Mr President! This proposal to amend Section 8 of Chapter 3 of the Health Insurance Act is a necessary and welcome proposal, i.e. an increase in the rate of reimbursement of the vaccination measure for corona vaccine from the current EUR 10 to EUR 16. This amount of compensation was discussed during the previous reading and we made a strong point on the part of the Assembly that this EUR 10 is too low, and now it will only be possible to correct it. Good, of course, late as never, but it is important that it is more or less the same as the cost. There were also estimates that it would be much higher than this EUR 16, but that is what has now been achieved. The public sector has done great work in these mass vaccinations and has been able to vaccinate large numbers of people, but these do not rule out each other in any way, but require a wide range of routes to vaccinate. And, as Mr Sarkomaa has pointed out here, in addition to health at work, pharmacies should also be involved in allowing vaccinations, all possible routes. As far as occupational health care is concerned, I would also like to point out that, at least for myself, I think it is very necessary that occupational health care should be applied to the workplace to give them vaccines. It also lowers the vaccination threshold, brings more workers within the scope of vaccinations, and then, of course, there will also be higher costs for occupational health care. We should see that there is a wider repertoire also in the way in which those vaccinations are carried out there in practical work. And then I would also like to raise this amendment to the regulation, which was also raised here by Mr Sarkomaa. At the moment, there is a lack of clarity in the field as to who will then receive the vaccinations: can private occupational health care also provide that vaccination service, and who will also act as a negotiator? Is it a hospital district, or do municipalities always have to act? This is a very grey area at the moment, and the municipalities have to improvise themselves and try to do so quickly, even though the letter of the law is not always fully fulfilled or, at the very least, unclear.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u217	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u218	Mr President! At the very beginning, I would like to ask you the same question as Mr Sarkomaa, Minister: why is this law now left waiting for our next meeting in February to be adopted? After all, we are very busy with this issue so that we can increase the vaccination coverage. Since the beginning of this pandemic less than two years ago, I have wondered about the government's policy in that it has mainly been used only by the public sector to deal with vaccination coverage and testing, yet we know that it is very incomplete. Although they have done this excellently for themselves, just as Mr Sarkomaa said there, 1.9 million Finns are still in the field of occupational health, and in such a situation we must fully use all the capacity available to us. We all know that the third corona vaccine is needed, and perhaps later even the fourth, which is already going on in Israel, among others. I would also like to point out that, of course, when occupational health is provided with these vaccines, compensation must be appropriate. It cannot be just a matter decided by the STM alone or by a very unilateral decision. It must, after all, bear those costs, because people have to pay wages and companies have to get along. However, while I say this, I also point out that pharmacies should also be involved in this. I have long wondered that, while pharmacies in other parts of Europe carry out both antigen testing and vaccination, we are still not going to do this. Among other things, this is one reason why these tests are still so expensive. We are talking about the cost of two or three hundred euros, even for the test, and it does not seem to make any sense, especially because we are different in this. Some people have the opportunity to go on a trip and take a test and take their families with them, but then those who do not have this opportunity for money are in a worse position. If, for example, pharmacies were able to do these things, if they were allowed to carry out these tests, they would certainly come down, as they have done elsewhere in Europe. In Italy, for example, the antigen test costs less than EUR 30, and we talk about a country with the same cost level as Finland by the way. Mr President! I hope, Minister, that you will reconsider that we will have this law in force earlier and occupational health care in the context of vaccinations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u219	Thank you. — Mr Mari Holopainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u220	Mr President! I hope that now, with this legislation, the rising compensation for vaccination will encourage more occupational health care providers to carry out vaccinations on a larger scale than has been the case so far. It is true that the public sector has handled this well, first of all, of course, it is responsible for all these costs and also for the compensation to the private side, but it has also, as many have said here, carried out these mass vaccinations very effectively, and thank you for that. The online booking also works quite well. Quite quickly, therefore, a wide range of processes have been put into transport and have also been put into action. However, it is good that when we have a limited number of occupational health staff or health care staff at all, we can all be involved in these efforts. I also hope that pharmacies and other health care professionals will be involved, who will not typically do vaccinations if we do not get to this stage, which would be really necessary and desirable, so that third vaccinations can be given as soon as possible, and I am sure that then the next rounds will come. Of course, this process should be designed as efficiently as possible and, of course, in such a way as to be cost-effective. I did not quite understand the debate in the press about whether municipalities should be obliged to use health at work. This sounds a little risky from a cost point of view. If this were an absolute obligation, then it might then have an effect on prices raising, but of course all these ambiguities in those processes, whose responsibility is what, it is worth finding out and implementing flexibly. I hope, of course, that many employers now see this as an opportunity to get staff vaccinated as quickly as possible and to prevent the worst forms of disease and to keep people as healthy as possible. I hope that many health professionals will now seize this opportunity when this compensation is also raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u221	Thank you. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u222	Mr President! The basic level and starting point of the proposal is favourable and good, but of course I wonder why it is only now that we start working on this matter. Secondly, I am surprised that now that we are about to get things right, why not get it right quickly, but just hang around, waiting for the February reading. In fact, occupational health care has not been able to participate in vaccinations due to this low level of compensation. It is good that it is now being raised to better reflect the cost of the vaccination, and therefore the situation can be established that occupational health care can actually participate in these vaccinations. In my view, the situation has been unfair and distorted in so far as — I am referring here to Mr Lindén’s speech — the fact that, in principle, all costs will be reimbursed to public vaccines. In fact, they will get the money that goes into it — the municipalities, the hospital districts — whatever the cost. On the other hand, occupational health care was strangled to the EUR 10 that does not actually deal with it. Well, now it will be raised and hopefully the situation will be created that the private sector can be involved in vaccination. But I think this has been the wrong course of action. The government is consciously segregating the actors. You cannot now claim that Finland has jointly rejected the corona, when you have set such limits so that not everyone can participate in these efforts. What is the real and correct cost level? It is said that it is even more than EUR 16, but obviously this EUR 16 will do it, now that we have heard the positive news that the job has also started in occupational health care, and that is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u225	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u226	Mr President! I hope that this increase in the vaccination allowance will indeed contribute to improving the vaccination coverage. I must say that, like the previous speakers here, I am surprised that it has taken the government so long to bring this proposal here to Parliament, and even now, because of the Christmas break, it will be delayed. Here you can see, as in the previous VAT issue, that this is a clear ideological attitude towards this private side, unfortunately a negative one, and yet the basis and basis of our health care system has always been that we have a functioning and good cooperation between the public and the private and it has been balanced. In that sense, it seems unfortunate that traffic has been left behind in this area. [Aki Lindén’s interlude] Unfortunately, I have to say that even here in Parliament there has been some time in moving these things forward, so it is only today that we have received information from our e-mails that health and safety in this Parliament will be allowed to start this vaccination. Indeed, it has been a problem even for us representatives to receive these vaccinations in our own communities, because many small municipalities, for example, may not have had vaccinations available on Mondays, and we in small towns have then wondered where and where to go to get them. In that sense, it could be said that MPs in Finland have certainly not been better treated than other citizens, but if you could even get there on the same line, that would of course be all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u227	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u228	Mr President! From the previous pandemic, we learned three critical points. One is that communication should go smoothly and it is worth being there with lawyers when you think about communication, that there will be no illegal messages and that there will be no clear communication. The second is management, and the third is to involve as many players as possible — and precisely that private and public cooperation are good. Unfortunately, the problem with this government has been precisely that of anti-privateism. So if you think about spring 2020, the use of masks was not supported because there were no masks and the private was not good enough to help. Then came the tests, offered help from a private person, but it wasn't good enough. And then it was gradually realized that, yes, more of those tests must be done, for example, at borders, at airports. Well, then we talked about these vaccinations. Still not good enough for private help. We have evidence that the private sector has provided this assistance. Now, however, the situation has become so clear to the government that simply the public sector cannot work alone in this area; we need those hand pairs, we need those people to do that work. And now we have a problem with vaccination coverage, and it has often been said that it is not so much a case of anti-vaccination, but simply that we need those vaccines. We need them now that there are vaccines. Some are getting older, and in February, a large proportion of the vaccines are getting older. We're gonna need them to move now, but we're gonna need those hand pairs. I think that the Minister's proposal is very much to be welcomed, since it now brings this occupational health care into these efforts. It's just worth it. By working together on this issue too, i.e. this corona pandemic is worth taking care of. The President-in-Office of the Council has been asked in this Chamber whether the Council of Presidents has somehow held this issue back here in Parliament. That is not the case, indeed, but we have just discussed this in the Council of Presidents today, and we have been informed that the government has not considered this urgent enough to be an urgent matter here in Parliament. I would like to ask you, Mr Sarkkinen: is this the case that you considered that this was not an urgent matter but that this could then only be continued in February? Personally, I would see that now that we are here and we were having this Christmas break — and none of us were able to take a break now, because we have had to do a lot of pandemic-related work here and a lot of other things are going on — we would very well be here to deal with this issue in my opinion, so that we can get moving. For example, occupational health care is able to promote these vaccinations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u229	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u230	Mr President! When it happened that my own speech was right at the beginning and I kind of went on to respond to the criticism that came up in the subsequent speeches, it went a little backwards. Some points were raised in this debate. I would like to say absolutely now that I do not see any anti-privateism or any ideology here. It may be that the circumstances may have made me more involved in this matter than the average, but it must now be remembered that since 11 March 21 this has been completely possible — that is, this same amendment of the law has already been made — but it was only then for the 10th. Now we are going to change it to EUR 16, and I know many occupational health services that have done it with that ten. Yesterday's news told us of our great players that they're doing it with the 10 now until it's 16. This calculation is also set out in this Government’s explanatory statement. In the district of Päijät-Häme, as many as 13% of all vaccines have been administered in the context of occupational health care — but they have been particularly large employers. Then there was the question of this regulation: Has it been overlooked that the regulation was adopted on 16 December and entered into force on 17 December? A regulation specifically calling on municipalities to examine the possibilities of occupational health care in their territory. So it has so far been possible, voluntary, and the municipalities have not done so in many places, but now a regulation has entered into force, which then calls for this to be clarified. Well, third of all, I was not underestimating when I was talking about the 3%. That calculation is in this government proposal, which has stated that we now have the number one and number two practically acquired among people and we have 1.9 million people in occupational health care, and it is estimated that 80% of them might take the third vaccine, and that this would, as a general rule, also be carried out in a mass-vaccination manner, because this is precisely the benefit of scalable economies when vaccinated in such a way, and 70% of them would carry it out in health care and some would continue to use these municipal opportunities, even if they are in employment or in service, and some of them have already received the third vaccine. This results in a calculation of 300,000 vaccines. It is a significant sum, and its price estimate is EUR 3.8 million, of course, then. But I compared the 300,000 to the 13 million: we now have about ten million vaccines, and when this third vaccine has been taken care of, we have 13 million, and in that sense it will remain in this 3% proportion. At the end of the day — but I will not continue to speak any longer — I would say that the provisions on health insurance here are very interesting. So now we're not using employment income insurance, we're using health care insurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u231	Thank you. — Minister Sarkkinen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u232	Mr President! Thank you to Parliament for a wide-ranging debate. To begin with, as Mr Lindén pointed out, the government has been trying from the outset to involve health at work in the vaccination process. The original compensation legislation was introduced to Parliament as early as February. Municipalities are responsible for the implementation of vaccinations and have been very varied in the way in which occupational health has been exploited throughout Finland: in some municipalities very widely and in some municipalities not. Mr President! I see the involvement of occupational health in this vaccine activity as important because, on the one hand, it can lower the threshold for some people to take vaccinations when it is brought there for health at work and possibly even at work, and, on the other hand, it can release municipal resources for other important health care. We know that our health care system is under all strain at the moment, and it can also bring more vaccinators into this work and thus speed up our vaccination work. Mr President! Mr Sarkomaa asked about these regulations, and just as Mr Lindén has already opened, the government decided to amend the vaccination regulation just before Christmas so that municipalities should be obliged to investigate the possibility for occupational health service providers to participate in interest rate vaccinations in their territory, i.e. municipalities will be directed even more strongly to include health at work in their territory. Mr President! For this level of compensation and the logic of compensation: Therefore, if the municipality makes use of health at work, the municipality can buy vaccinations from occupational health care or it can agree with the employer and occupational health care that vaccinations are carried out at the expense of the employer. In this case, it remains for the employer to decide whether to use the so-called Kela compensation for the costs of vaccination to be borne by the employer or compensation for occupational health care. Already today, many employers have been prepared to replace the vaccine with their employees at this current level of compensation of EUR 10, and hopefully in the future more employers will be prepared to do so at this higher level of compensation. Mr President! This year, following the adoption of that original law, the consultant concluded that EUR 12 would be this estimate of the cost of the vaccination, i.e. in that sense the level of compensation of EUR 16 cannot be considered insufficient, although it is certainly the case that the costs of the different activities carried out by different operators are very different. Mr President! Then I would just like to say briefly about these pharmacies that the role of pharmacies needs to be considered. I myself am open to it, but it is also perhaps part of a broader debate on the role of pharmacies and the range of services and also on the range of healthcare services. Then on these dates: Mr President, Parliament itself decides on its own time and on its own meeting. I personally did not want to ask Parliament to suspend its sitting alone on this matter, but if Parliament believes that this is what it wants to do, I would welcome it very much, but it is a matter in the hands of Parliament. I myself think that the knowledge that this change is coming can in itself, when it goes to the airport, send the message that we are moving forward, and an increasing number of employers and operators will hopefully go along with this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-28-ps-159.u233	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament decide to suspend the 2021 Parliaments at the end of this session. The Council of Presidents also proposes that Parliament meet at the 2022 Parliaments at 12 noon on Tuesday 1.2.2022, when the 2021 Parliaments end.
