ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Vanhanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u2	Mr President! The Government has submitted the second draft amending budget for the year 21. At the heart of the performance is a significant support package for culture, art, sport and the field of events, amounting to approximately EUR 225 million. In advance, I apologise for the fact that there are many numbers in this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u7	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u8	Madam President! Good Minister of Finance and good colleagues! Thank you, Mr Vanhanen, for presenting this amending budget. Here comes a little help for culture, events and physical activity, but it must be said, in the interests of honesty, that this guarantee of events remains quite modest. It is a word that the government is now repeating, but it will not, ladies and gentlemen of the political parties, save what is happening to us. It has been limited out of a significant number of, for example, serial activities and a lot of other events. And these measures are now quite amazing. At the same time you allow to open the Veikkaus casino in Helsinki, 350 people can come to the casino indoors, but your restriction on events means that for example to the opening game of the Seinäjoen SJK’s Veikkausliitto in the 6000-person outdoor viewing room [PasiKivisaari requests reply ] — Mr Kivisaari, in Seinäjoki to an outdoor audience of 6,000 — you will allow 20 people to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u15	At this point, I do not give answers. Three speeches, which have been made in advance, can then be taken to the debate. — — — — And now, Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u16	Madam President! This amending budget raises one thing above the others, and it is the concern of the field of events and the cultural population, which the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party shares. We have certainly all received an enormous signal that the cultural people are amazed that the left-wing green government focused on arguing over peat and that the area of the event was a matter of concern to its peat. Now we in the Committee on Budgets are concerned about where the motion for an event guarantee is. According to the information in the public domain, it's still incomplete. We are very concerned and we hope that the Minister of Finance will be able to confirm that this bill is ready. Mr President! The last few weeks did give rise to great hope in the parliamentary group and in Finns. Finally, in the left-wing green government, a party was found whose conscience was awakened to the irresponsible line of the government to live uglyly on the children. I believe that there was hope in many families if now a mother or father could get a job, or a young person who had been without a summer job. But the disappointment was shocking, at least in the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, and I believe that in many homes. The debtor's result was much worse than anyone could ever fear. The restoration of responsibility promised by the President of the Centre Party, Annika Saarikko, for over a week, to Finland as a whole and to the airport of the Centre was an empty speech, I must say. [Joonas Könttä’s interlude] And now I have to say, Minister of Finance, that it is clear from everything that you and, above all, the officials of your ministry were pushed behind the door of the debt row, and that is something that can be seen. When the VM then received those figures from the bank where the door was not opened, the VM immediately sent those results to the spending limits of the left-wing green government. The VM estimates that the employment impact was only a quarter of what the government announced — the distorted figures of the left-wing green government failed to stand up to the light of day. And they found the right reason to break the frame. Korona has changed Finland a lot, it has disciplined Finland, but it should not be allowed to crawl behind it, as the government does. And the officials of the VM wrote on their blog when they finally got the results and numbers of the spending limits committee — quite frankly they wrote — that ‘in the government’s term, ‘reforms have been carried out which had not been prepared for fundingin the frameworks of the election season’. So breaking the frame was a matter of will. We continued the policy that has been taken before the interest rate, that is to say, reforms are being carried out, most of it important in itself, but we do not care where the money comes from. Someone wrote — and I do not remember who I am quoting here, but I did say — that we are going to go on the Marin—Mäkynen economic line, where it is thought that money is available from the bank, that loans are always available and that people can be taxed. Mr President! The government justified the breach of the spending limits with a mere interest rate, but that was not the case either, and now I would like to ask whether future left-wing green budget debates will be carried out without a framework, without a Minister of Finance. That's what it looks like, and I feel bad about it. This is not how responsible Finns should be handled. Mr President! Government policy makes the mind of a person who supports the Finnish welfare society very low. This is cold and hard politics. We do not accept in the parliamentary group that people are being pushed into unemployment. We do not accept the risk of endangering the Finnish welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u17	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u18	Mr President! Today we have an amending budget, which includes, among other things, the money from the event guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u23	We will take Mrs Lindén's floor and then we will take the floor. — — — — Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u24	Madam President! It was interesting in a way to hear the speeches made by representatives Heinonen, Sarkomaa and Multala. I would characterize that the first two are part of the coven's resentment fraction. On the other hand, this speech by Mr Multanen was much more positive and reassuring.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u27	I would now ask those Members who wish to make a response to the debate to stand up and press the V button on the floor. — And this debate will be launched by Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u28	Mr President! Yes, Mr Heinonen, who sees nothing good in support of the sports, cultural and event sectors, links all possible events on the basis that this aid of 230 million is nothing at all. I believe that there are quite a few people in this Chamber who are pleased with this package, this package of support for these vital sectors, but I am concerned when Mr Heinonen does not see that. But it's great that you brought up Seinäjoki and SJK. Personally, I agree that it is a little overcompensated that only 20 people can actually be taken to 6,000 stadiums, but Mr Heinonen forgets that we have moved from Parliament's wish and also from the demands of the coalition to regional and local decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u31	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u32	Madam President! The cultural and event sectors, physical activity, must be the worst affected by this corona crisis. This package will increase to about EUR half a billion the support given to the cultural and event sector. These introductory remarks did not really touch this amending budget very much, so it can certainly be said that it is quite a good one. Instead, there was criticism of the spending limits argument and demand that we return to the frameworks. What would that mean? Well, that would mean, for example, a cut of EUR 300 million for culture, physical activity and youth work. When you call for a return to the frameworks, spending limits exceedes, among other things, by compensating for the collapse of the winnings. So you want 300 million cuts in culture, exercise, youth. [of the Coalition Party : No! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u33	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u34	Mr President! The rest of Mr Arhinmäki's speech was a good one. We agree that cultural and sporting events of this kind must be opened up. It is not a question of not having enough support, but of allowing them to do so, of finding those safe ways. We are talking about a transitional period, a few months, and we are allowing cultural people, sportspeople, to do, to organise, to seek safe ways. But this first part, this spending limits procedure: It does not mean, Mr Arhinmäki, that culture and exercise should be cut off. The spending limits are the total expenditure level. It's been like that for 30 years. There have been different colors of governments, and Arhinmäki has also been involved. Different-colored governments — they make those value choices, but the main thing is that we stick to the framework because it protects the taxpayer from politicians who waste money. Every single government before this government for the last 30 years has adhered to the spending limits rule. The framework is established by Parliament, it is the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u35	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u36	Mr President! When you listened to the contributions of the people of the United States at the beginning of this debate,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u46	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u47	Mr President! Yes, Mr Lindtman, that gloom comes from our looking further than our noses. If we look at where Finland is, we are in a situation where we are in the worst third of Europe in terms of the sustainability gap, in terms of how we can secure welfare services in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u48	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u49	Mr President! Having listened to Mr Mykkänen, I am beginning to understand what this is all about. [Base Finns Group : Well? ] Your own line is so messed up that you try to cover it up, that you shoot everything that moves, and you bludgeon about everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u50	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u51	Mr President! The biggest point of criticism for us is that you let the people understand that you made the employment impact of 40,000 people, and when we go to the Ministry of Finance — whose officials were not counted and not even the minister himself in these negotiations — their official calculations indicate that more than 10,000 jobs are about to be created. That, Mr Lindtman, is what it is all about, Mr Lindtman, that you have not been able to take the employment measures which, by the way, during the last period when the coalition was in the government and in the centre. 140,000 were born on the Sipilä line. It's a pretty tough record of the measures that could be taken. And when the end result is what I said earlier, that you will eventually decide, for example, to cut 50 million in the cultural sector, what will you say to those people when you glow here that they have been saved,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u52	Ville Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u53	Honorable Speaker! I'm a representative. Lindtman agrees that not everything is wrong in Finland. Of course, there are some things. I also agree with Mr Heinonen that there are throws in these employment figures, and in a slightly bad way, yes. Now that we see that the first additional budget for this year was dealt with on 16 March. It was stated in that committee that the government had returned in 2021 to comply with the spending limits, and this did not get very well out of date. Now that this 500 million covid supplement was agreed in the autumn on the budget and in the course of the negotiations, 139 million for the first additional budget and 277 million for this budget, only 84 million will remain. This is a rather small sum, so it may be that the frameworks in this respect too are likely to be exceeded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u54	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u55	Mr President! Thank you for having the opportunity to discuss the cultural and cultural support package, and thank the government for the fact that the size of the package is now such that it really and truly responds to the challenges of culture. When we talked about employment issues, I also need to understand how large and relevant both the culture and the field of events are also employed. This seems to be often forgotten in the debate. Previous aid packages ignored the role of freelancers, and this aid package is better placed to respond to it. However, the corona period has also highlighted the difficulties faced by freelancers and so-called shredders in terms of both social security and pension security and the like, and we therefore need more long-term solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u56	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u57	Madam President! When we look at the big picture of the economy in the background there, it is quite clear that we need employment measures, we need major structural reforms and we need good family policies and improved birth rates. These are the things behind it that are a challenge to our economy, no matter what this covid epidemic is now. But this amending budget. It is, of course, a good thing that the field of events and art, science, sport, sport receive funding here, but it must be noted that, despite the compensation, there will be more than 41 million reductions for next year and 23 reductions for the year 54 million. That's a lot of money. And in that sense when you look at the percentage of physical activity, the exercise, which is the most dependent on these odds, will suffer the most in spite of the compensation. This is where I hope that the Ministry of Finance will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u59	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u60	Irade the Talman! Of course, the fact that TPS is in the league finals is a sign that the world books are somewhat confused,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u63	Congressman Kiviranta. - Now you're not wearing a microphone yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u64	Mr President! In this situation, the government acts exactly as it should, i.e. supports the sectors most affected by the interest rate. This additional budget includes a relatively large support package for the event, arts, culture and sports sectors. There's no way out of it. The situation in this Chamber also seems very safe for the opposition to do the work it deserves. As usual, the coalition opposition blames the government for two things: that the government spends too little money and that the government spends far too little. Support for the event sector is more than in order, as business in this sector has been almost completely stagnant for over a year. The Event Guarantee is a necessary tool for managing the financial risks inherent in the organisation of events.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u65	Congressman Kiljunen, Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u69	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u70	Madam President! I think it is quite symptomatic when here the representatives of the RKP and also the representatives of the centre, as it were, show approval that the most important instrument and instrument of economic policy in this country, namely the breaking of the spending limits procedure, would be as if acceptable and permissible. You are the first government that really violates this own spending framework,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u71	Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u72	Mr President! I believe that we all agree that we want to get to work as well as possible and that the epidemic must be dealt with in such a way that it could also be possible for cultural people to get back to work. That's got to be the goal. However, no one is sure how the summer is going, how the epidemic will fade, how regionally the decisions of the authorities can be changed in how the events are organised, how many people there can be. Nevertheless, the objective must be to prepare these events, and that is why this event guarantee system has been created. Hopefully, it will encourage the organisers of events to try these, and a long time ago it will show us how well we manage the epidemic. The fact that we are directing in this package, in addition to previous packages, over EUR 200 million to cultural people and events, should not be allowed to experience in the opposition either that the government is trying to raise points from the cultural community. That money is taxpayers' money for the years to come, and now it is up to us, this Chamber, to assess whether it is a proportionate contribution to the losses in this situation, [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u75	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u76	Mr President! So the year 24 is at the spending limits level. It's usually called a technical frame. It is done in such a way as to clean the table as well as possible for the next government to make its value choices. It is not worth it, for goodness' sake, now to claim that it is a responsible economic policy if you leave it to the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u79	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u80	Madam President! Mr Orpo, now that you are so strongly criticising the fact that the next two years are trying to provide for the post-counsel management of the interest rate, [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u83	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u84	Mr President! It is very difficult for me to understand the logic of Mr Arhinmäki. We are not criticising the fact that the field of events is being supported. That is what we have wanted, because that is how we will be able to maintain these jobs. But we are criticising this funding. You want to be indebted to our children and grandchildren, [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u86	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u87	Mr President! After all, the government is doing this as it has said and promised, and now, as part of this amending budget, support for cultural actors is being directed at half a billion euros, including support for the event sector and the sports sector. This has been welcomed by the SDP Parliamentary Group. This will enable us to support this sector, which has suffered a great deal in the midst of the corona crisis. And I think it is important that we should also be able to dismantle these regional restrictions, because that is what the cultural sector most expects to be able to organise these events and events. It is not primarily about the support packages, but about getting back to normal. That must be the goal. But, Mr President, I wonder very much about this populism of the coalition. At the same time, it is required not to take on any more debt, and then the next sentence already talks about why the government does not provide sufficient support for the cultural or event sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u88	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u89	Madam President! It is indeed a good thing that this money is coming now, what this sector has really been waiting for for for a very long time, because it is really incomprehensible that it took so long. As an auto-sportsman and as an event organizer of motorsports, I would say that the government has been bypassing these activities all along in the round. Let's go right and left, 'cause we're behind on everything. A good example is now this event guarantee. We'll be in May. It's not in the package. This summer has really been lost. Event organizers don't do events a month earlier, they start many times even a year earlier. The event guarantee should have come in January at the latest, if it is to be said that this summer these event organizers have any prospect of getting some benefit from this support. I really have to tell you, it's great that money is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u90	Like this. — And to that end, Minister Vanhanen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u91	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Orpo was forced to leave the Chamber, but I would still like to correct the misunderstanding that has taken place in this debate of recent days. The cuts that the government is making will not be for the year 24 but will be for the year 23, that is to say, this government and this Parliament will make permanent savings decisions, and they will come into force from the first day of the year 23. This government is responsible for this. The next Parliament will not be entrusted with this task, which means that this government will clean the table, as it should, for its part.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u92	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u93	We shall now proceed to the third reading of item 3 which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — The debate on this will continue, Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u94	Mr President! The second draft amending budget for 2021 will increase the need for net government borrowing by EUR 286 million. The support package for the cultural, sports and event sectors accounts for more than EUR 200 million. I really want to thank the government for this package. Every one of us here knows how important the aid package is. It has been a terrible year for these sectors. I would like to focus my remarks on this very whole, although the amending budget contains other important points, such as compensation for the restaurant closure. As a result of interest, there have been strong restrictions and bans. The events have been cancelled and postponed since last year's spring. Tens of thousands of people employed by events have been left without jobs and livelihoods. The future has been almost impossible to predict and plans have had to be made on the basis of wishes rather than knowledge. This uncertainty has contributed to increasing the plight of the sector. With interest - rate vaccinations increasing, light and hope are again in sight. However, that does not remove the fact that tomorrow’s prospects are still cloudy to the very least. Even the field of events still has to deal with uncertainty. Mr President! An amount of EUR 80 million has therefore been earmarked for the event guarantee under the Culture, Sport and Event Support Package. This is an advance commitment for public events of at least 200 persons to be held after the entry into force of the Act and by the end of this year at the latest. This guarantee makes it possible for organizers to have a backrest to act, perhaps also encouragement and faith in the future. The aid package also includes grants granted by the Arts Promotion Centre and state grants to cultural professionals, business names and sole proprietors. Almost EUR 65 million has been earmarked for this — not bad either. The Ministry of Education and Culture grants state grants to theatres, orchestras, museums, religious events and many others — all of which we are familiar with, deep Finnish cultural heritage. Small and medium-sized cinemas and film distributors are supported by state grants granted by the Finnish Film Foundation. This is also a good thing. EUR 9 million for sports and sports clubs, EUR 6 million for national and regional sports organisations and EUR 3.5 million for events cancelled or lost as a result of the corona virus situation. I would also like to thank you for that. Exercise clearly needs to be invested by the state, and that is what the government is doing now. Of course, the future of enthusiasts and those working in sports and sports must be safeguarded, or otherwise not only a public health problem but also a mental and physical paralysis. The government must have been aware that sports and sports are the largest popular movement in Finland. Almost two million Finns participate in the club. The club includes 500,000 volunteers and 160,000 instructors and coaches, and now the corona time has put many hobbies on hold. A huge number of children and young people have also disappeared from sports clubs during the corona period. This is a serious place you can't stand by and wonder. Mr President! It is vital that cultural, physical and event sectors recover as part of the reconstruction of society as a whole and as part of the recovery of people. These amending budget measures make it possible for this to be a matter of hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u95	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u96	Madam President! The amending budget under discussion creates hope and prospects for the cultural, physical and event sectors seriously affected by the corona virus. Although corona restrictions have been necessary to protect human lives, they have caused a catastrophic collapse in the cultural sector dependent on the public. This EUR 225 million support package is a rescue ring for the Finnish cultural sector, which is really needed. It is extremely important to identify the different players in the cultural sector and to ensure that people do not fall into the gap between the support network. For example, many professional freelancers have so far been left without subsidies, even though the flow of income has stopped because of the interest rate, as has other operators in the sector. Now we're gonna fix it. Madam President! The cultural sector not only plays an enormous role in people's everyday lives and quality of life, but also has a major impact on Finland's economy and employment, both directly and indirectly. Here, too, we know some finer examples of what happens before the moment the artist gets on the stage or when the football game is whistled. The event industry, apart from employing 20,000 employees, employs almost nine times the number of temporary employees. There is talk of a large number of jobs, and that is also why this comprehensive package of support for the amending budget is important. We also know how important sports clubs and sports organisations are to move Finns, as Mr Kivisaari has just described. The opportunity for exercise and hobbies is particularly important for children and young people, who are perhaps the hardest hit by this crisis. By supporting the sports sector and sports clubs, we are pointing a sustainable way out of this crisis. Madam President! In the midst of a crisis, the future may look uncertain and the prospects are foggy. The duration of the transaction guarantee will now be extended until the end of the year and the ownership of the aid will be significantly reduced. This will create the conditions for planning future cultural springs and autumns. For the Greens, it is important that events be opened as quickly as possible, taking into account the epidemic situation. This requires that differences be taken into account both in the regional disease situation and in the risk profiles of events. The best support for the cultural sector is still to follow the guidelines given and protect one another from the corona virus. The better the disease situation gets, the faster we can open up the different functions of society and the sooner we can get back to events and cultural services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u97	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u98	Mr President! This second amending budget this year will in practice be entirely targeted at the administrative sectors of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. It is very important that this additional budget takes into account the needs of art, culture and physical activity in a variety of ways. To list some, grants will be directed to people in the field of art and culture, business names and sole proprietors, reimbursements to museums for reduced ticket revenues and cancellations of opportunities, funds will be directed to state grants to organisers of basic art education, grants will be directed to cultural and artistic institutions and cinemas for reduced ticket revenues. There's money coming in to keep up the houses and workhouses. Grants will also be directed to sports clubs and organisations in the field, as well as organisers of sports and sports events that have been cancelled and have suffered losses. Grants are even directed to organizers of religious summer events. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, this event guarantee is of course very central. I think that the government has, surprisingly quickly, completed that event guarantee legislation if it is already being given to Parliament, and its adoption is, of course, a prerequisite for the adoption of this additional budget. However, it is very important that the event guarantee rules are on the way so quickly and that assistance can be found in support of the event sector. Mr President! Restaurants have been severely restricted this year, and most of the restaurants in our country were closed for a part of the time in March-April. The restaurant sector has suffered a considerable amount of corona pandemic, so the government’s additional support for it is really needed. An additional EUR 40 million is proposed for compensation for restaurant closure.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u99	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u100	Madam President! I think there are two ways to deal with this second amending budget of the year. First of all, we should thank the government for bringing at last, and at last, some compensation to those who have been most hit by the corona restrictions. Instead, criticism must be given about the slowness and modesty of government action. It is appropriate to ask why the government support package was only decided now. As a result of the delay, many cultural, artistic, physical and event actors have already had to cancel events planned for the summer when information about this support package, let alone the government’s highly advertised event guarantee, has not been available. And there is still a delay in mobilising this transaction guarantee. That's how much reprimands the government's proposal from the Legislative Review Council got before May Day. Of course, criticism also fits into the government's restaurant support policy. I myself have appealed to it, and many other representatives, even from the government's own ranks, have argued that, rather than having to make these aid packages, it would be preferable to improve the industry's own operating conditions in order to cope with this corona nightmare: that is to say, more restrictions on the regional disease situation and better conditions for restaurant operations, including by relaxing the regulations on sales of alcohol. But this feeling has been like talking to a wall. The Government has not wanted to hear the wishes of the restaurant industry to improve its own condition. Therefore, as many as 28% of entrepreneurs in the sector are currently at risk of bankruptcy. On the other hand, Mr President, the government has not been arrogant towards the restaurant industry alone. I am talking here about the mid-term debate, the outcome of which has been called into question not only by Vatti's Mr Roope Uusitalo but also by the chairman of the Economic Assessment Council appointed by the government itself and, in the case of employment decisions, even by the Ministry of Finance, which bears the main responsibility for public finances itself. These comments by these parties are stunning. For example, in an interview with STT, Roope Uusitalo stated that it is a little difficult to justify such a large overrun of spending limits in terms of cyclical policy or interest rate policy or in any other way. On the other hand, Professor Jouko Vilmunen, Chairman of the Economic Assessment Council, analysed the mid-term dispute in Kauppalehti as follows: “I’m really disappointed. The government used cheap money to buy a settlement. The problem of public finances is a long-term sustainability problem, the solutions of which are being postponed.’ However, the coldest comment was heard about the government's employment measures and was traditionally issued by the Ministry of Finance, which assesses the impact on employment. According to a press release published on Friday by the VM, the employment impact of government employment measures recorded as tens of thousands more than is 11,000. In an interview with Senior Senior Specialist Olli Kärkkäinen of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs,involved in the Government’s employment policy: ‘It is necessary to distinguish between potential estimates and impact assessments,and the impact assessment,what is to be done.’ I personally would take the warnings of these parties seriously, but of course the government will decide for itself. However, Mr President, it might be appropriate for the centre to stop its nonsense about holding back debt and hard employment measures, when the officials of the VM who are responsible for them no longer believe in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u101	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u102	Madam President! The government decided on this amending budget, which we are discussing today, as part of the spending limits debate in which we heard about the decision taken last week. It is therefore also necessary to examine the government's economic policy more broadly than only in relation to expenditure in this amending budget. Even in February, Prime Minister Marin assured us in this Chamber: ‘After 2020,the national economic framework has been restored,and preparations for the forthcoming framework debate have been made.’ Government ministers have assured us parliamentarians that this government will reduce debt, maintain spending discipline and stabilise the state of public finances. However, the results of the spending limits are quite the opposite. The budgetary discipline of the government, or the little that remains of it, is seriously shaken. After many economic experts have stressed the need to move on to the next steps to balance public finances and return to the framework, what was the government’s decision to do? The Government decided to exceed its spending ceiling by EUR 900 million next year and EUR 500 million in 23. The spending limits will be broken by EUR 1.4 billion over the next two years. There is no information on the strengthening of public finances, as new debt is expected to rise to more than EUR 7.5 billion next year, and in 23, debt borrowing will accelerate to nearly EUR 9 billion. With government policy, our public finances are stagnating sharply in deficit throughout the 2020s. This government will remain in history as the first government to break its present framework. The framework has protected ordinary taxpayers from the wasteful use of tax resources by politicians, an increasing deficit and a higher tax rate. Now the government decided to put this important tool together in a shredder. It is incomprehensible how the Finance Minister's Centre has been able to accept such a procedure. Madam Speaker! It is also surprising that the government's decisions on employment or, in fact, their absence. According to the Government, the employment measures decided in the dispute would have an impact of up to 40000 jobs. However, this satisfaction lasted only a short time for the government parties until the Ministry of Finance published its own impact assessments, according to which the impact of employment decisions is only a quarter of this published, about 11,000 jobs. The little that was decided in the debate is therefore partly an employment problem, not real employment reforms. The country's government has certainly gained merit in setting up working groups and working on them. The teams are sitting, but there's no sign of any results. For example, a sad example relates to the working group on local reconciliation. Its term of office has been extended and extended when no agreement has been reached. Again, it was reported from the mid-term debate that the working group will continue its work until the end of the parliamentary term. If the group does not find an agreement in two years, will it be worth outsourcing the responsibility to it for the next two years, or would it be time for the government to assume its responsibilities in this situation itself? At the meeting, we have taken a legislative initiative to extend local agreement on an equal basis to all companies. I am particularly surprised by my colleagues from the centre and the RKP that this initiative is not good enough for you. How can you let the local settlement fall, but you accept the government's trick job? Mr President! If you do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition's criticism of the results of the spending limits debate, then believe even the top experts in our country, namely you have not received any praise. In his blog, Professor Vesa Vipriälä has stated that your decisions: ‘The policy guidelines are cyclically-relevant,condemnifying the credibility of the important framework procedure and no further action will be taken withoutsubsidising the increase intime. “ The President of the Council for the Evaluation of Economic Policy, ProfessorJoukoVilmunenresponsiblefortheframework:‘I The government used cheap money to buy a settlement. The problem of public finances is a long-term sustainability problem, the solutions of which are being postponed.’ I have noticed that colleagues from the government parties are now making a strong case for breaking the framework with the effects of the corona crisis. The interest will certainly affect the economic situation, but how on earth did the government manage to cope with the financial crisis and, for example, the migration crisis without breaking the framework — a crisis whose impact on our economy, that is, during the financial crisis, was much more severe than what we have seen in this situation? So, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of budgetary discipline is not the reason for the interest rate; it has already started much earlier. It has started immediately since the first working day of this government. At the time, expenditure was drastically increased, but decisions on new incomes and strengthening employment were postponed to the future. The interest crisis has only deepened this gap between expenditure and revenue. The budget manager of the Ministry of Finance, Sami Yläoutinen, commented on theseovershoots in his column by stating that ‘the government is also engaged in reforms that had not been prepared for funding in the early frameworks of the electoral term.’ Madam President! Finland needs, and we need, a comprehensive plan to discipline debt-taking, genuine employment decisions and growth-enhancing measures, not a drastic increase in debt and a foolish employment policy. That is what we are waiting for from this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u103	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u104	Madam President! Although the debate on the framework and the debate on employment is really important, I thought I would take this opportunity to talk about the cultural sector, the field of events and the current situation and the necessary support and this amending budget. Thank you to the government for finally dealing with the support package for cultural needs in its size class. In previous stages, aid has been offered but so low that it has not been enough for all applicants and many freelancers have been completely ignored. The interest rate situation has, therefore, highlighted the previously known challenges of freelancerism and so-called shredding, which should also be resolved permanently, not just in the corona package. These include the fact that unemployment benefits do not accumulate but do not cut down on copyright compensation. It would also be important to address this large number of pension issues now. Sometimes it seems that knowledge of the cultural and event sector in society or in all ministries does not reflect the employment and welfare effects of the sector. The indirect impact of these events on employment is high. For example, in the background of the festivals, people are needed to design lighting, organize sound. There are also a lot of restaurant and accommodation activities around the events. The turnover of the event industry is EUR 2.35 billion, and the sector employs not only 20,000 employees but also 175,000 temporary employees. The Government has now agreed on a package of nearly EUR 230 million to be distributed to the cultural, artistic, event and sports sectors. The event guarantee will be implemented at an amount of EUR 85 million, the duration will be extended to the end of the year on the basis of the received feedback and the contribution will be significantly reduced to 15%. This will provide the cultural and event sector with a view to the future and will create the conditions for planning a cultural summer, the end of the summer, and the autumn. Of course, it would have been great if the decision had been made earlier and all the festival organizers had been able to reach it. In the success and the passage of summer and autumn cultural events, we can all help by keeping the disease situation as low as possible through our own actions. Vaccination and possibly the use of vaccination certificates also provide further relief. It is important that events are opened as quickly as possible and that the different risk profiles and differences in the regional disease situation are taken into account. It is good to take into account the possibility of outdoor events in a different way. And now that the restaurants have been opened up, could we also consider the possibility of bringing cultural performances to this already congregated audience? The Ministry of Education and Culture provides €65 million in grants to professionals and entrepreneurs in the field of art and culture. This will increase this spring's working support for this group to a total of 80 million. Support may be granted for up to four months, and the allocation now also takes into account those operators who have previously been excluded. That is what we in the Committee on Budgets have already drawn attention to in connection with the previous aid package. The theatres, orchestras and museums will receive 20 million support. This support will be able to prepare for the autumn exhibition, concert and performance season. Free field operators and performing arts, visual arts and literature communities and children's cultural actors will also receive a support package of EUR 17 million. Basic art education and cinemas are also supported. In this regard, I have great concerns about the state's contribution to the basic art education institutions, the situation of which I hope we will be able to learn even better in committee. In addition, municipalities have an important role to play in finding ways to support young people’s leisure activities and their continuation. I'm quoting a little message from basic teaching actors in South Karelia to this Parliament: Schools of basic art education have persistently continued their activities without interruption and in search of new solutions. This is also of great importance in the everyday lives of families. The restrictions in force in the region and the guidelines of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the National Institute for Health and Welfare have been followed very carefully. Educational institutions have taught as local, distance and hybrid education, operated in smaller groups, organised mobility so that the number of contacts is minimal, taught outdoors and so on. This group hopes that these 2020 grants can continue. As part of the package, sports and sports will also be promoted by 18.5 million. Many young adults have missed out on sports clubs and sports associations, and older people have stayed at home. It would now be very important to get the Finns moving again. Municipal support measures should also include support for clubs and various hobby activities, so that the return of young people to these activities already during the summer and especially outdoor activities is guaranteed. Regrettably, I am disappointed by the fact that the aim of the government programme is to compensate for: The decline in gambling returns in the coming years for cultural and youth players has not yet been able to hold on to this point as a whole. Let us hope that this can be corrected at a later stage. The proposal is therefore a very important step forward in support of culture, but we need solutions for long-term funding as well as the restoration of the position of freelancers in the sector, for example, within the framework of basic income.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u105	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u106	Mr President! The restrictions imposed by the Koronapandemia have been particularly economical in the field of art and culture. The cultural, sports and event sectors, which have been in a long-standing crisis in this amending budget, now receive the necessary additional support of EUR 225 million. The aim of the cultural package is to deal with the acute crisis and secure livelihoods for cultural and event workers. The unnecessary bankruptcy of the sector's communities must be avoided. At the same time, the prospect of post-pandemic reconstruction must be created. The aid package has been built in such a way that special attention is paid to the diversity of the sector and to various forms of work, such as job employment, self-employment, self-employment, self-employment, freelancer and activity. Due to the diversity of the sector, there are numerous needs. The package includes both the event guarantee for subsequent processing and the support package for OKM, which consists of grants and grants for cultural operators. It is good that the aid package now takes account of the diversity of the sector. As far as events are concerned, both the event guarantee and direct support are important so that we can enjoy the live art as the epidemic allows. Now that the government's decisions on broad support for the sector have been taken, money must be mobilised quickly. The Ministry of Education and Culture and Taike will have to prepare allocation models so that access to assistance does not become bogged down in red tape or the like. The euro must be mobilised quickly as soon as Parliament's decision is complete. I hope that the allocation criteria will be fair and will also support cultural operators in building the future of the cultural and artistic sectors. Cultural actors are needed to rebuild society after the interest rate. For example, in the Committee on the Future, we have had good experiences in making science and art together in the foresight work of the future. The professionals of art and culture already have the creative potential required by the profession, and this is what is needed right now to see the potential of post-corona society. It would now also be important to promote conditions for cultural well-being. Culture and art provide excellent tools for promoting health and well-being, prevention, care, care and rehabilitation. For example, it would be desirable to have cultural and artistic professionals in a number of social and health teams. It is therefore important to understand at every level that art and culture are also needed to address the welfare deficits created by the corona in society. We must be able to see the possibilities of culture and art more widely than we have traditionally thought. I therefore hope that, in the field of culture, too, we will be consciously starting to think about the future of the sector from a completely new perspective and, on the other hand, that the partnership between art and culture is seen as an opportunity in society in other areas as well. It is a good thing that, as part of the cultural agendas, the Government will set up a steering group on cultural policy to monitor the preparation and distribution of aid and to assess other issues in the cultural and creative fields and to seek solutions in cooperation with the actors involved as part of the reconstruction of the corona era. The steering group will work until the end of 22. Mr President! The corona virus situation has caused a major drop in the number of sports and exercise enthusiasts. There is a risk that young people in particular may become permanent and will no longer return to physical activity and social activity after the interest rate. The faster normal sports and sports activities resume after the corona, the better we will be able to minimise the negative effects on children and young people caused by exceptional circumstances. EUR 9 million will be allocated to sports and sports clubs, EUR 6 million to national and regional sports organisations and EUR 3.5 million to assist and support sports events. Mobility, especially for children and young people, is costly for society in the long term, and it is therefore important to deal with this issue as a matter of urgency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u107	Congressman Ollikainen gone, Congressman Virta gone. — Mr Salmonikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u108	Mr President! During the period of the corona, the Government has so far supported actors in the arts, culture and creative sectors with a total of approximately EUR 250 million. I am pleased that today we are dealing with the second amending budget for 2021, which will bring further relief from the interest rate to the cultural sector, which is particularly badly affected. Due to the situation of the corona virus, a new package of €226 million will now be given to the cultural, sports and event sectors. In particular, the aid package takes into account the diversity of the cultural sector and the different forms of work, such as job workers, self-employed persons, self-employed persons, self-employed persons, freelancers and those working under the name of activities. Mr President! It is important to take the plight of the cultural sector seriously. This is necessary for the livelihood of professionals in the sector, but it is also necessary for the well-being of Finnish cultural life and society as a whole. Interest-rate restrictions have, unfortunately, prevented cultural operators from doing business once the presentations and events have been cancelled. Throughout the year, the Left Alliance has called for improvements in the cultural and event situation. Although efforts have been made to direct a wide range of subsidies to the cultural sector, there have been many interlocutors. In particular, self-employed workers and freelancers have not been able to support themselves as well as they should have. The Left Alliance has worked hard on this issue and we are pleased that this package is now doubling the support of freelancers at once. Mr President! It is clear that no support can financially fill all those gaps or replace a living and diverse cultural offering. It is important that the government has developed its own exit strategy. The safe organisation of events should now be among the first, while society is being opened up again. One of the wonders is still why theatres and concerts have not yet been allowed to open up in accordance with health safety, even though restaurants already did. Different sectors and industries must be treated equally. Now that the corona situation is moving in a better direction, it gives us all the hope that we will be able to meet in the summer, we will be able to attend summer theatres and concerts. However, the situation remains uncertain and it is therefore very important that the event guarantee should encourage the cultural and event sector to plan future events. Mr President! I am also pleased that the amending budget will bring relief to local sports and sports clubs. There has been a significant decrease in the number of children and young people, and now there is a risk that many of the people who fell out of the crowd will not return. Interest has caused financial losses to many clubs and it is therefore important that this aid package now supports clubs and series in difficulty. Every child must be guaranteed the opportunity to engage in a hobby. It is a very important future act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u109	Congressman Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u110	Madam President! During the corona crisis, the government has supported business and entrepreneurs through large-scale support packages. However, the cultural and event sector has so far been largely excluded from these forms of support and the structure of the aid has not sufficiently identified the diversity of the sectors. The forthcoming fourth cost support will help entrepreneurs, freelancers and those working under the name of activity in particular, and it is clear that the government has a strong will to ensure that everyone is covered. However, it is a fact that other measures are needed alongside cost support, and that is why this amending budget addresses this issue. Today we have had a debate on this amending budget, and it has been strange that in these own speeches the Assembly has not ignored the issue but, at the very most, by the sidelines, hardly that either. This amending budget has received a great deal of support, and perhaps it is indeed the case that it is not openly encouraged to bark and criticise it, but at the very most in the sense that it states that there is insufficient additional money, but that too has been an unfortunate contradiction to those speeches that call for more cuts. But I think it is important that, in any case, we now have a debate on the matter at hand. Mr President! I am very pleased that the second draft amending budget is now focusing in particular on the cultural, sports and event sectors. Overall, we are talking about a package of €277 million and it can be considered significant. The event guarantee has been raised a few times during the debate in the Chamber, and I would like to say that the guidance must indeed be so clear that operators in the sector do not have to make decisions based on unclear interpretations. This is something we must ensure. I think it is important that we do not leave the players alone after that. That is why the government is monitoring the preparation and distribution of subsidies. When Parliament is able to process the amending budget and decide on it, the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Arts Promotion Centre, for example, should already have ready-made allocation models, as it is essential that support be mobilised on a timely basis. It is also good that the government, in cooperation with the industry, is still looking for solutions to both the current situation and the post-column reconstruction. The interest is not over, but I hope that the discipline in these areas will finally begin. In my speech, I would like to address in particular sports and hobbies opportunities for children and young people. As a result of the pandemic, it has been necessary to limit the number of hobbyists. In terms of the well-being of children and young people, it is valuable that restrictions are abolished above all children's exercise and hobby activities. This has also been a clear, mutually agreed policy of the government. Now that the disease situation has eased and vaccinations are proceeding at an excellent rate, this has already been achieved in many regions. The situation also makes it easier for clubs to operate. However, I am concerned that some of the children and young people may not return to their hobbies after the pandemic has passed, but may become permanent for many. We must therefore make every effort to minimise the negative effects of the interest rate on each aspect. Local authorities also need a lot of investment in services that promote the well-being of children and young people. The government has given a lot of support to municipalities, and the maintenance debt of the interest rate must also be taken seriously, taking this into account. Mr President! It is important that, under the leadership of the government, we can restore the exercise and sports activities to normal as soon as possible. I would like to express my warm thanks to the Government for the amending budget and also for the support given to the sports sector. It is expected and necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u111	Congressman Kvarnström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u112	Ärade talman, Mr President! This year's second amending budget is more than necessary. This support package for the cultural, sports and event sectors is very important for society as a whole. The sector has a significant employment impact and is of great importance to the economy and well-being. The situation in this sector is extremely difficult and, in many respects, the future is still uncertain. The sooner we fight the corona virus, the sooner this multidimensional sector can flourish again, but in the meantime it needs and deserves support. This amending budget is an impressive response to this need. I consider the situation in this sector to be urgent, and my assessment is that the aid package takes greater account of the diversity of the sector and is more effective than it has been in the past. The situation is now looking brighter for many culturalists and freelancers, who, unfortunately, have so far been left out when aid has been distributed during the corona crisis. The specific characteristics and diversity of the sector have not been sufficiently taken into account in the past. This package saves a lot and takes into account the diversity of the sector and the different forms of work, such as job workers, freelancers, self-employed and private entrepreneurs. At the same time, it must still be remembered that the crisis is not over yet, that we support the industry best by stopping the spread of infections now, so that we can meet in events as soon as possible. The cultural and event sector has had to wait a long time for a good support package, but in the big picture Finland has been able to solve the crisis excellently.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u113	Thank you, Madam President. This amending budget, less than EUR 280 million in its entirety, has been relatively well received in today's debate, since the debate has largely gone to its own lines, perhaps to a wider economic entity and to a wider overall debate. However, a few words about this support package for the cultural, sports and event sectors. I also think it is very important, and I think it is a good thing that we are finally supporting the event sector, the cultural sector. There is reference here to freelance operators and the sports sector. It is quite true that it would have been preferable to bring this whole into Parliament a little earlier, but better late than never. And I hope that the expert comments on the transaction guarantee, the comments of the evaluation council, will be taken seriously as soon as possible, so that this event guarantee can be put into effect and prevent the problems that could arise without this whole. From this broader picture of the economy: I have considered it a little unusual what has been said here today that nothing is being done and nothing can be done. I would argue that, for example, the pension line cut that this government had previously carried out is a so-called hard action that would have led to very much public debate if it had been carried out by a different color government. And when we look at this whole, which has now been achieved, the EUR 370 million cuts for the year 2023 will be significant and point to the direction that permanent cuts will also be made which will then be distributed to the administrative sectors in a different way. They're not easy, but this is the road. If we want to balance public finances and if the big picture is not capable of improving employment and otherwise increasing revenue, then, unfortunately, that is the path to cuts. And that is what we need to pay particular attention to so that this does not happen. Madam Speaker! Overall, this amending budget is very welcome and, as has been heard in this Chamber, this has received broad support from the ranks of both the government and the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u114	Congressman Vikman is gone. — Mr Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u115	Madam President! This is the afternoon and this evening we have discussed the supplementary budget, but we have mainly talked about everything else, the spending limits debate, especially with regard to the opposition, and I believe that this is where the social dialogue took place during the day. This always takes a little getting used to by the local and regional politicians that every section goes through everything. Perhaps it also tells us, as Mr Mäkinen said, that the Chamber is reasonable in this amending budget as a whole. The second amending budget of this year is of great importance, and hopefully it will save and help the restaurant, cultural, sports and event sectors to cope with the effects of the corona crisis this spring and summer. These restrictions have had a particularly severe impact on the cultural and physical activity sector, both economically and from the point of view of employment. The amending budget totals EUR 226 million and I think it covers all sectors very well: culture 127 million, much talked about event support 80 million. It is easy to share this concern about this schedule of support for events after the legislative evaluation council intervened. The compensation for restaurant closure measures is 40 million for cost support, and then 18.5 million for physical activity. The sectors now receiving aid have suffered most, except for the aviation sector, throughout Europe. This is the comparison I found, and I'm sure it's true, not to mention the effects of culture and exercise on people's everyday well-being. Most of the contacts between businesses and organisations at the time of the interest rate have come from culture and physical activity, both from the restriction of leisure opportunities and, in particular, from the need for operators and entrepreneurs to make a living. In my view, the amending budget takes full account of the diversity of the cultural sector from self-employed to freelancers. The event guarantee is important that the event sector, too, gradually get to the lathes and create those genuine experiences for people. The impact of the sector is also significant for the regional economy. It is unfortunate, of course, as has been said today, that a large proportion of major events in the summer have already been cancelled in the past. The sports support package is also important and focuses mainly on clubs and sports organisations. It is great that the return of children and young people to hobbies has taken place in the regions. During the Korona era, many young people in particular have disappeared from hobbies, and it is important that clubs are supported in order to bring them back to these good sports hobbies. It is also important that the main series of ball games are included in the support. For football and baseball in particular, clubs have already experienced one corona summer, and the other will not last, especially if this summer’s series were to be played without an audience. I very much agree with the hopes expressed here that, as soon as possible, particularly with regard to these events, these restrictions on the public will now be looked at and it will be possible to assess quickly whether it would then be possible to increase the number of people in these events with a faster timetable. The Government's proposal also includes the setting up of a steering group following the impact of cultural policy in order to monitor the success of the cultural and creative sector over the corona in the construction of the bridge, and that is indeed important. From the point of view of employment, compensation for restaurant closures is a necessary measure for many entrepreneurs, so that the activities can continue in general in the future. The restaurant sector has been in real trouble for over a year now, and it is a miracle that this is all the bankruptcies and jobs have been lost. Mr President! The amending budget brings a glimpse into the restaurant, culture, event and sports sector towards normal everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u116	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u117	Madam President! The State's second amending budget will create hope in the midst of the crisis as we move towards a hopefully more free summer. We have a great need to meet, act and engage together. There's a longing for another person. Culture and exercise will help us to move forward. The post-coronation of interest will continue in our society as we return resolutely to the frameworks. Frames that have been temporarily crossed. Much and more money has been demanded in this Chamber today for the necessary support measures resulting from the interest rate. There have also been criticisms of the steps taken by the government in the aftercare of the interest rate, but there has also been some underestimation of the government's steps and the way back towards the frameworks and the refraction of the state debt and also the painful cuts that have been made in connection with it, in due course. We also have to pay for the post-column of interest. Mr President! The second amending budget of the year proposes a total of EUR 225 million in support of the cultural, sports and event sectors due to the difficult situation caused by the corona virus situation. The package draws attention to the diversity of the sector. Grants and grants are now also granted to sole entrepreneurs to work, to design their own work and to develop their skills. The transaction guarantee granted by the Treasury is EUR 80 million. It is an advance commitment for public events of at least 200 people. All in all, support for events will be needed. We are not yet sure how the epidemic will fade. The objective must be to prepare and organise events for the rest of the summer at least. Time will show us how to manage the disease situation and whether the investment is proportionate right now. In any case, all aid packages will be paid in the coming years. The targets for the amending budget were decided in the framework of the spending limits debate. The frame is temporarily exceeded due to corona and its subsequent treatment. At the same time, it was decided to return to the spending limits level in a credible way by the end of the parliamentary term. It is also necessary that non-profit organisers, such as associations, foundations and public limited companies, should also be eligible for state aid. We are now receiving support for the summer theatres. Also included are summer festivals, including religious events. The Ministry of Education and Culture publishes application notices showing the details of the application. Support is also distributed to museums, orchestras and basic art education. We should help children and young people and people of all ages to start their hobbies again. In the autumn, a free hobby begins in connection with school day, which helps children to return to good hobbies. At the same time, schools and organisations are able to cooperate well with each other. The sports support package is directed to organisations and organisers of events that have suffered losses. There's a lot of ways the store's a drug. It costs us a lot of money to get out of here on a long run. It is important that citizens of different ages return to physical activity as soon as possible. Mr President! This amending budget contributes in many ways to the well-being of citizens and creates hope for a better one when we rebuild Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u118	Thank you, Madam President. It is great to listen to these speeches, which evaluate this situation and reflect and reflect on what can be done and what the government has done now. That dinner conversation here was a little unpleasant — here the gums were blinking at the government about last week's mid-term debate, but it was not so much about this actual issue. I do not wish to emphasise any confrontation, but now there is a place for that. Yes, often when a factory ceases or a production line is moved, this house quickly reacts and we politicians react or trade union leaders rush there to give sympathy, but not necessarily anything else, but when we talk about art and culture, then that understanding and acceptance will be quite limited. Yes, it has to be admitted that unfortunately the government has responded to this situation late, but it is important that it has finally reacted. Many artists, actors, artists then received messages that there are many warm words but there is also a need for them. Now the government has done and brought this proposal for this amending budget. It takes into account the diversity of the sector and the different forms of work. It was especially warm when I read Paula Vesala’s Twitter update, where she said: “Thank you to the Finnish Government for supporting the Finnish culture, physical activity and event. Many people in the cultural and event field were crying today just because they felt that their work had value and dignity.” We hope that when we enjoy culture there, visit the theatre and various events, wakes up and reminds us of the importance of the work of these people to all of us, to the well-being and well-being of all Finns. It is particularly important at a time when we are trying to get rid of the corona that people get to enjoy this supply and that this industry is also being brought back on its feet. I hope that all this has happened will bring us to what is important in the field of culture and what is needed there and, above all, to what extent they will, for example, be able to correct the shortcomings they have in relation to these compensations or various forms of wage creation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u119	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u120	Mr President! Better late than never. This aid package comes in desperate need. It is a kind of initial shutdown in a situation where the cultural and event sector has been in need for at least a year and has been on fire for quite some time. Well, it's easier for a while, but of course it's not over. The greatest thanks go to those involved in the cultural sector who have tirelessly voiced in favour of their fellow workers, their livelihoods, justice and culture. It's great that the government stopped to listen to these people. The aim of the Greens was to achieve a sufficient size. We stressed in particular the size, allocation and allocation criteria for freelance subsidies. We aim to ensure that the transaction guarantee is made workable and that no operators are missed. With this package, the support for freelancers distributed through the Arts Promotion Centre Taike will be multiplied. In addition to the EUR 15 million previously decided on, almost EUR 65 million will be allocated. This means thousands of new scholarships for people who have suffered because of restrictions on their livelihoods. This solution is not perfect, but it is very important. The package should have been even bigger than this. Those losses in the business are dramatic. In this context, I think it would have been worth building a new mechanism for retroactive compensation for professional freelancers. Of course, when this was not achieved, the most important thing is to make this model as effective as possible. Criticism and feedback from industry on Taike's allocation criteria and search practices must be taken seriously. Magic must show that it is able to act quickly, flexibly and fairly. I have also submitted a written question on this to the Minister for Culture. Mr President! The cultural sector must finally get back to normal once and for all. Not all the questions will be solved with these few thousand-ton grants. Record collections, musical instruments, and tools have been sold to get bread on the table, and this year has also been spiritually devastating for many. Perhaps these retroactive compensations would have been a more effective aid in relaunching its operation and also a stronger signal of appreciation. However, it is now essential that every professional in the cultural field who has been hit by the corona should be informed of this support package, that everyone who is entitled to the aid will apply for it and will also receive it. I know it's not easy. Many are exhausted, and I hope that we will find ways to help and support those people who do not have their own powers or their own skills. I have proposed to the Minister for Culture that the Ministry, together with the actors involved in the sector, should organise support to ensure that these grants can also be found. This substantial package of support is an important indication that the government has a genuine desire for cultural policy correction. It must also be reflected in future decisions. For example, the dismantling of restrictions must continue to turn all the stones so that the cultural sector can be opened up as soon as possible in a safe manner. As a single example, it would be good to make it possible for restaurants not only to eat but also to enjoy the culture of the dose. Mr President! From the government and the wider Parliament, and from the whole of this country, we need a vision of increasing the value of the cultural sector and the recovery of the cultural sector after the acute crisis. Close cooperation with industry is the only way to rebuild not only these conditions of operation, but also confidence. These people are best acquainted with the cultural sector, and they are worth listening to.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u121	Congressman Adlercreutz gone, Congressman Kettunen gone. — Representative Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u122	Madam President! There is an important amending budget which at last brings significant relief to the cultural sector in a slightly larger form, and as has been mentioned several times here, it must be better understood that culture is an important industry and employer. It employs up to 140,000 people in Finland. This is in no way a trivial matter, quite the contrary, and the government programme has also committed itself to promoting the creative sectors. We still have opportunities to grow in the creative sectors compared to other European countries. In some ways, it seems that Finnish industrial policy has still been bogged down to talk mainly about industry, although when we talk about the impact on employment, especially when it comes to services and culture, for example, is absolutely crucial. In this debate, it was pointed out, among other things, by the Coalition Party that this framework is the most important tool for Finland's economic policy. This is kind of sad if we think so. Yes, we should focus on how we increase productivity, how we manage in international competition, how we increase employment and well-being and how we develop an economy that is also climate-friendly and environmentally sustainable, so perhaps there are opportunities in this Chamber to take greater account of our industries and our industries. And now, at the latest, this corona crisis has shown how important culture is, even for those who may or may not have doubted it. I am very pleased that, for example, this package includes grants for small and medium-sized cinemas. I'll take it from here as an example. We have a situation where it is possible that larger chains will eat small ones after such a crisis. This is a real threat, and then, in order to hold on to the widest possible selection of films, we must remember that it does not only work on market terms, but many of the managers of a small and medium-sized cinema, an entrepreneur, make it out of love for the sport. In addition to this, it should be noted that the development of the epidemic situation is also crucial here as a whole, and it would be very important to make use of the research data which highlights, for example, that the external corona virus is much less contagious than indoors. And in order to move forward with the management of this epidemic, to keep the infections low and to open up society, we should be able to come up with new creative solutions until then, solutions that are as broad as possible, for example, for cultural events and other livelihoods, while at the same time trying to keep the risks of re-aligning this epidemic low. Indeed, outside events certainly offer one excellent opportunity now to expand this opening up of society, especially during the summer, and I hope that since then we have already made significant progress in the fight against this epidemic, which means that we have already reached a very high level of vaccination coverage. We will certainly deal with this amending budget carefully in Parliament. I am glad that this has now been achieved. Of course, it will not provide a solution to all hopes and all distress, but it is a very important investment in the cultural sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u123	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u124	Mr President! Today we are dealing with the second amending budget of this year and there are changes to the main categories of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Education and Culture. When I have listened to this debate in my room, it has been criticised that this spending limits... I mean, really, when I've been sitting in quite a lot of this kind of row, that spending framework for central government finances is exactly what people want to follow. There has now been some criticism of the fact that the Coalition Party is criticising the crossing of this, but I have to say that I hope that now the eyes will open up like a kitten, that this lady Finland eats more than she earns, and that it will have nothing but bad consequences. Anyone who can't take that criticism now, for example, should think about their own economy: would it always be possible to increase debt in their own economy? No, it wouldn't. No one wants to do that. Why, then, is it possible for us decision-makers, some of us, to do so to government finances? I think it's two-faced. Well, yes, but for this amending budget itself: After all, the amending budget is now correcting these problems caused by the corona pandemic. There is a lot of good, yes, there is no denying it at all, and when I am chairing the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we have really been extremely concerned about, for example, sports, children's and young people's hobbies, their brackets, and the consequences of it for the well-being of children, and then, of course, culture and art have been in real trouble. In this corona age, there has been no other good side than to understand the true meaning of culture. It is very important for well-being and health. This amending budget package provides EUR 127 million for culture and art, an increase of EUR 18.5 million for physical activity, and for the implementation of the event guarantee, the Government proposes EUR 80 million. The only problem with this transaction guarantee is that there is still no such proposal here. It just received towels from the Legislative Review Council and then had to be returned. That is why, of course, this situation is a little difficult when we do not yet know what it is, but in any case it has become a criticism from the evaluation council, and then these statements also seem to have come far too late and do not take the whole chain. - Thank you. I'll continue with the next one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u125	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u126	Mr President! There are good things in this amending budget, but there are some where the timetable is really poking. Minister Pekonen promised, among other things, that the impact of copyright compensation on unemployment security would be aligned in the framework debate that had already taken place. At least I have not heard any news in this regard. The problem is also that the money from the transaction guarantee will be molded in the budget when we do not have a bill to distribute it. The government also speaks of itself as the government of the return of honour in education, but I would like to remind you that, for example, there is still a deficit of around EUR 100 million in upper secondary school education. Again, there is no budget for teaching in this amending budget. To the end of the economy. The Government Programme’s entry: ‘The increase in the employment rate in the Government Programme is a In this context,it appears that the target will Government to improve employment outside the review.’ Unfortunately, the spending limits have proved that once again these are only beautiful words.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u127	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u128	Mr President! I'm gonna go on a little bit. That's what I was just saying about that event guarantee. We do not yet know where the 80 million will be put, but I will just say that it is far too late. In Seinäjoki, for example, Provinssirock, the Tango market had to be cancelled. If this had come three months ago, I believe that we would have had the courage to arrange it then, and that is quite a tough thing for a city of our size, where these events are also very important from an economic point of view. But then the important thing is that the event guarantee takes into account its entire chain and not just the performer. There a great deal of workers are needed to organise such events. But about the cultural sector as a whole: The 127 million in culture and art is all right, but it is important to note now that this support can actually be targeted correctly and that it is precisely those interlocutors that can be identified. And this has already been contacted, so there is a concern that this support will certainly be targeted correctly. The aid must be allocated to the sectors most affected by the restrictions on the basis of their losses. The application has also been made: modern tools should be used to distribute support for cultural freelancers and to avoid red tape delays. The application must assess professionalism and loss based on the collapse of previous incomes and income levels. The application form should not ask for a grant schedule or other material to evaluate the artistic profile or work. This is what has been hoped for. Previous income shows losses and professionalism. If the grant is distributed in the form of a grant, the grant period must be defined by the recipient himself, it is hoped. And experts in these fields of art should be consulted in the preparation of the mechanism in order to ensure proper targeting and to avoid ambiguity. These are very important wishes, since now this money, this 127 million, is being divided up so that it will not be the same as it was then on last year's side when these subsidies came. It did not go quite as it did in Strömsö, so we hope that we will now be wise and take account of these very wishes which have been expressed by the people themselves. We have heard these concerns in the Committee on Education and Rural Development, and the intention is then to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we are all on the side of the cultural players, so in that sense we are in complete agreement on these issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u129	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Vanhanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u130	Mr President! This is a follow-up to a familiar matter. The Government proposes to Parliament that the VAT exemption for goods needed to combat the covid-19 epidemic be extended by eight months. The entry into force of the Act amending the VAT Act would therefore be amended so that it would expire on 30 April 21 instead of 31 April 21. 31 December 21st. This proposal is based on the Commission's decision of 19 April that the decision originally adopted in April last year will apply until the end of this year. The Commission has now extended the period of application for the third time. The scope of the law would remain the same. Domestic sales of goods used to prevent, test and manage Covid-19 infection and intra-Community acquisitions from other Member States are exempt from tax. Taxfree applies to sales to providers of public health and medical care and social services as well as to organisations approved by Customs. The impact of the proposed changes on public finances depends on the quantity of goods needed to combat the covid-19 epidemic and the duration of the epidemic. At the level of 21 C.E., the present proposal would reduce the tax revenue of the State by an estimated EUR 12 million. The proposal relates to the second draft amending budget for 21 years of the State and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u131	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u132	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister, and when there was a bit of need here that Mr Heinonen will never thank you for anything, he will thank you. This is a good and welcome performance. This is, of course, a temporary amendment to the VAT law that has been adopted and an exemption from VAT, which is now being extended until the end of the year, which concerns the domestic sale of goods used to prevent, test and manage covid-19 infection and the modification of the tax exemption for intra-Community acquisitions in other Member States for a fixed period of eight months. Now that we are talking about these masks and other materials that are related to this, I can’t help but point out that in us this domestic production has remained a little unauthorized for little use. We had quite good innovations to bring to the protection side and to the mask side, and it bothers me a little, Mr President, for example, that this Parliament's blue masks — although the blue is a fine color — are Chinese production and, according to my knowledge, those blacks, which are more elegant-looking, a little like a minister model, are, I am told, even worse because of that dyeing. Now, the latest news has told us how there are quite a lot of such test-related stuff in these Chinese import masks, but also different dust and stuff. By the way, this feedback also comes to some extent — well, almost all of us are already using these in our work — from care workers that some of these masks also get respiratory symptoms and find it difficult. And, of course, I would hope that we will soon find a way out of it so that little children will see the faces of the nurses and also the demented elderly will see the faces of the nurses. I hope you find it. But, in fact, my concern is that this domestic production is low in value. We have great innovations, and I hope that this bill, in which the continuation of VAT exemption is now being proposed, will also help to speed up these purchases from domestic operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u133	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u134	Madam President! It is, of course, unfortunate to disappoint Mr Heinos now that he has been able to praise the government for once, but I would like to say that the delegation will probably object to this motion, because there is still this issue of neutrality with regard to the fact that this proposal does not treat public and private producers equally. We have done this many times before, in the tax section and in the Committee on Budgets, and we have drawn attention to the fact that, in this situation, there is no reason for these producers to be treated differently. We have also raised these arguments in our objection, and we will therefore argue that Article 38c It will be modified so that private producers will also be able to benefit from this exemption. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: when you are certainly familiar with this question and you know that there is a problem here, how can it be that this is the third or the fourth proposal, which concerns precisely...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u137	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u138	Madam President! Of course, this is not a major matter for the national economy and seems very technical, but there are two reasons why I asked to speak. The first came at the end of the presentation by the Minister for Finance: this matter was, after all, included in the amending budget which was just under discussion, with an amount of EUR 9 million in such a way as to reduce the revenue of the State. That is why the expenditure increases of EUR 277 million plus a reduction in revenue of EUR 9 million give rise to the need for additional funding in this case, with a debt of EUR 286 million in the case at hand. To Mr Marttinen: Indeed, this is the third follow-up, and it follows that this is the fourth time that we have had this issue before us. However, the second reason why I asked for this speech was in a certain way a continuation of the recent debate, because this 9 million was also on the table in the recent amending budget: yesterday I was startled by something that may seem very distant in this regard. The television news said that in Bavaria it had been concluded that no Oktoberfest would be held next autumn, between September and October. Well, first of all, it is an event which, according to my memory, collects six million participants and has a business impact of hundreds of millions of euros — I do not dare to guess if there is as much as one billion, but at least hundreds of millions of euros. This decision was therefore taken in Bavaria, which has certainly been led by the Conservatives throughout the post-war period. And this has to do with our recent debate in such a way that we do not have the slightest reaction in the rest of Europe to how this current situation can still be managed and how we can get out of it. This isn't just a one or two year hole. That is why it is justified that we go in a sliding way back to the frameworks, so that in 23 years there will still be a certain amount of funding that goes beyond the framework, and then a little bigger, of course, in 22 which is closer, and in that way we will return to normal and create conditions. In this respect, I wanted to continue this debate which we have just had, because this EUR 9 million was also part of the amending budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u139	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u140	Mr President! Recently, Mr Heinonen raised the issue of the domestic masquerade industry versus the Chinese masquerade industry. I think it's closer to a year when, for the first time, when Minister Vanhanen was sitting there, I was talking about this Chinese masquerade. This is incredible that we are here for the benefit of our society and talk about cost-competitiveness and Finnish jobs and it has been about a year since we are still holding Chinese masks here in Parliament. In that initial situation, Finnish companies were asked and invited to do so. How is this possible? I am, frankly, ashamed to wear a Chinese mask in this hall. Finland has sold pulp to China and printed masks there and now is being brought back here. They are certainly cheap, but I would like something to be done that would allow some protective equipment to be produced here in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u141	Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u142	Mr President! The amending budget states that this will reduce tax revenue by 9 million. I have just noticed in the presentation that I mentioned 12 million. Stick to the amount entered in the amending budget. This restriction on public service providers is in line with the Commission's decision, but I know that, technically speaking, it would certainly also be possible to extend it to the private sector. But this was actually done the first two times, and it was concluded that we are sticking to this limit. When drawing up this proposal, it was not even considered that it would have been changed, but that it would be proposed to continue with the old system now until the end of the year. This is a good question as to where we should have domestic production. When the pandemic started, we had a lot of discussion about what our security of supply status is, what ability we have to produce the supplies needed in such a situation. Many companies have been on the move, but I am sure that both in these protective equipment and in the manufacture of the equipment at the end of the day, we need to be able to cope with quality-price ratios and security of supply and so on, which has then led to very many different parties in Finland who are competing for these products ending up in products made abroad. It raises the right question as to how competitive Finland is and, on the other hand, whether production capacity in a small country is sufficient for this type of special products, which may not be needed enough in the normal period to make profitable production reasonable. The question is, then, what is the European responsibility, as it were, to have security of supply even in Europe. It might be enough to say, even in normal times. I believe that, after the pandemic, all these experiences must go through very carefully and find the right balance between national, domestic security of supply and European security of supply, and what type of contractual systems, security systems are when we Europeans are linked to the need for global production, so that we have confidence that we can have sufficient quantities if necessary, whether we are dealing with medicines or protective equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u143	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u144	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for his good answer and for his reflection on this own production and security of supply issue, which we had quite a lot to discuss a year ago, and also to Mr Marttinen for his reminder that this concerns both the private and the public side. After my own speech, I was already receiving feedback from Rovaniemi from residents and I went to that side of the state hall on the phone to hear it. We must give our regards, which is, of course, part of it also raised this issue of prices. Of course, neither the government nor we politicians are able to influence what the cost of production in Finland is compared to the production of China, for example, but the feedback of the person who is quite strongly involved in this matter was then linked to this testing. There is still a lot of work to be done in Finland to ensure that it is thorough
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u145	I apologise to Mr Heinos. I was still in that minute category myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u146	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u147	Mr President! In December 2020 the Government submitted a proposal for social reform to Parliament. The proposal transfers responsibility for organising social welfare and health care from municipalities to welfare areas at the beginning of 23. The present Sote 100 proposal proposes technical amendments to the legislation in order to update the legislation to reflect the new organisational structure and responsibilities provided for in the reform of social welfare and health care. This is therefore done in the substance laws of social welfare and health care, which is why this has also been described as the Sote 100 package. The proposed amendments do not interfere with the content of the provisions, i.e. do not change substance laws as such, with the exception of the supplement on information management related to the separate solution of Uusimaa to the Act on secondary use of social and health data and the clarification of the Act on Health Care Professionals. Otherwise, the aim is to keep these changes technical. Mr President! Technical changes are mainly made to the concept in order to reflect the concepts proposed in the proposal for a reform of social welfare and health care. The proposal also proposes, inter alia, to include, where appropriate, informative references to the laws proposed in the proposal for a reform of social welfare and health care and to repeal some of the provisions on overlapping regulation, such as supervision, cooperation and general responsibility for organisation. A total of 109 laws are being amended in the administrative sector of seven different ministries, so this is a very large package. The proposal follows the decision to promote the welfare and health of the Social Welfare Act that in future the role of promoting well-being and health will be shared by both the municipality and the welfare area. In line with this regulation, the tasks of promoting well-being and health, such as preventive substance abuse work and child protection, will continue to be the tasks of both the municipality and the welfare area. Some of the laws contained in the proposal include regulation, which, according to the Åland Act of Self-Government, belongs to the legislative powers of the Kingdom. The proposal proposes to amend references to the municipality as references to the welfare area and therefore proposes to add a provision to the legislation on the above mentioned social welfare tasks in relation to Åland. These provisions are therefore only intended to maintain the status quo. The proposed addition to the Act on the secondary use of social and health data concerns the separate solution proposed by Uusimaa in the proposal on social welfare reform. Despite the proposal to maintain a register of customer and patient data in Uusimaa’s separate solution, the primacy of the responsibility for organising would mean that the welfare areas of Uusimaa and the City of Helsinki would have the right to process and identify patient data generated or stored in their own registers and patient data produced by the HUS group on the basis of financial responsibility on its behalf. For the above reasons, it would be possible for the welfare area of Uusimaa and the City of Helsinki to monitor how the HUS Group provides services for them. Mr President! This whole package of the Sote 100 proposal is designed to bring the legislation into force within the timetable for the reform of the social security system, i.e. 1.1.23. It should be borne in mind that the proposal can only be adopted once the actual proposal for social welfare reform has been adopted. — Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u148	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u149	Madam President! Dear Minister and fellow Members of Parliament! We have a Government proposal 56/2021 before us, and there are over 700 pages here, and as Mr Kiuru has pointed out, it is a so-called Sote 100 package. In fact, my own questions are mainly related to why this legislation is being brought separately from this big package, that is, the social package itself. Would these, however, be a good thing for us to discuss together and side by side in Parliament? And I also wondered that, when we in the Committee on Finance have also done some thorough work or tried to do some thorough work, with regard to these economic effects in relation to this social reform, this whole thing would not come to the Committee on Budgets for an opinion. It may need to be assessed. I am sure that the substance and questions of this whole will also go through us later, Mr Sarkomaa, at least, but I cannot help but say that, when I said that earlier, at least by the opposition, we tried to do a thorough and good job in the Committee on Budgets around this basic solution of the wars, we were not given a real chance. So, together with the Christian Democrats, we had to protest against this social reform in the opinion of the Committee on Finance and say that the social reform does not improve people's services, but it actually undermines our public finances. We heard in the Committee on Finance the best experts in Finland, whose almost unanimous view was that this reform of the Sanna Marin government does not include incentives for high-quality and efficient service production that should be done. There is inevitably a need for reform in Finland — that is something we all agree on, so that the growing need for care can be managed economically sustainably. However, this government proposal, as part of which this Sote 100 is now before us, means a direct and drastic weakening of the current situation. This was quite clear in our committee's reading. The government model leads to the rejection of the current strength of our social and health system, the public and private sector, a good and cost-effective division of labour. And those concerns are still great that what happens to Coxa, what happens to the Heart Hospital and many others, and they have not been dispelled by Mr Ilmari Nurminen's convincing in the Coxa Group, perhaps even further confused the whole thing when we have tried to find this solution. I would therefore like to express my thanks to those in the group who, too, have been totally unfailing in raising these problems in relation to this joint hospital, Coxa and Fimlab, and the Heart Hospital and these, and they have not, in fact, been resolved for the time being. It has been said that, if this is to happen, the result will be the dismantling of services in the social services sector, but also cuts in the vitality and education services of municipalities, as well as increasing costs. This is poison for the vitality and service supply of sparsely populated areas. I wonder, therefore, that the centre is finally moving forward with this type of package and package. This is a drastic measure to concentrate services, particularly from rural to urban, and also, in fact, to transfer decision-making power from rural to urban. We have many provinces, and I was in fact not surprised when I listened to the comments of Minister Sirkka-Liisa Anttila from the Emerita Parliament on Kanta-Häme. In practice, the decision-making power is transferred from two other cities and rural areas to one city, i.e. by far the largest city centre in Hämeenlinna. And I was not surprised that even the ranks of the centre were seriously concerned about this development. Based on the feedback of the experts, the incentives contained in the proposal have been built against the objective. In fact, they accelerate the cost growth of welfare areas. And the approval of the government's social welfare reform would therefore weaken not only services but also public finances. This Sote 100 is closely linked to this social reform, and according to this latest estimate, the funding for social welfare in the Helsinki and Uusimaa regions would decrease by EUR 300 million as a result of this reform. The proposal would therefore jeopardise the social services in the region, HUS's operations and our high-quality specialised medical care. The proposal lacks solutions for funding university education and research, and there is a risk, for example, of a high level of cancer research and thus of patients receiving the best possible treatment. That is what our representative, experienced, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and in the Committee on Finance, Mr Sarkomaa, said after our statement. We also had to raise a little concern about the lack of concern for parliamentaryism in the debate on this proposal. Our questions have not been answered, committees have been arranged on top of each other, serious warnings from experts have not been taken into account and so on. The list is long and, in fact, could not help but recall during this spending limits debate whether it was agreed in the spending limits debate that the centre would not leave the government so that they could have their province or, in fact, their welfare area. In fact, the Committee on Finance was unable to carry out its task properly and the government parties took the opinion forward with voting power, although the financing model for the reform is still not ready. The financial impact of the government's proposal on municipalities and regions is therefore unknown, but the representatives of the government parties in our committee were not affected. Christian Democrats Sari Essayah said that the proposal would destroy the service promise of the Finnish welfare society. The message was serious and worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u150	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u151	Honorable Madam Speaker! This proposal for Sote 100 is very much to be expected precisely because, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and in many other committees, we have been going through this government's draft regional war and, as we see from the statements now made by the committees, the proposal is inadequate in many ways and is damaging in many ways, and it was certainly high expectations in the opposition parties, but above all in the government parties, that these worst losses would have been corrected by these Sote 100 legislative proposals, but it is a great disappointment. So the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has started to consult this whole, and I can say that this is not a technical one — I thought I heard Minister Kiuru saying that these are mainly technical reforms. The biggest concern is from Uusimaa: There Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa, the Medical Association, THL, many parties have argued that this joint registration procedure should not be overturned, as is now the case in this legislative package. This means that there will be six different registers in New Zealand and the information will not pass. The question is that the health care system in Uusimaa, which is already falling short of nurses, will be forced to search for this information by nurses and doctors. It is also a matter of patient safety. Those statements have been very strict, and I was surprised that this type of weakening will still be brought to Parliament. I would like to say that this is just one part of this Sote 100 package. Well, a big disappointment is also on the hill of HUS, on the hill of Meilahti. We expected that this package of laws would have been the solution to university research and education, because it is missing from this government's actual provincial-sote law package. Today's research is for the future. In the Committee on Finance, we made a commitment that was approved by Parliament during this parliamentary term, and Parliament, with this effort, has required that, as part of the reform of social welfare and health care, the funding of university-level health research and education be resolved — but it is lacking. So this proposal is challenging in many ways, and it is really important that it is now being opened. It is not just a question of technology. Madam Speaker! When I referred to the fact that this proposal is a torso, and I say that the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party is working to ensure that this is absolutely unacceptable in this form, I would say from Helsinki that the City of Helsinki has been concerned about this financing model. A financial cut of EUR 30 million would have come to Helsinki, but now that this funding model has been recalculated a little bit again — it is incomplete, and experts from the Committee on Finance said that the biggest reform in history should not be carried out in such a way that the financing model is so incomplete and uncertain as to what comes out of it — and the cuts of EUR 65 million will come to Helsinki, and these will put the health services of the capital at risk. You promised a separate solution to Helsing — you committed a separate robbery. I would also like to say that once the corona has torn Helsinki apart and increased the number of treatment queues — we have a shortage of nurses about to explode — for example, when we combine this register issue and this surgery, we are in trouble for how we will be able to secure the services in the future. This county war has been resolved in such a way that, for a large part, money is being cut off, and who will have to pay for it? In their backs, nurses and taxpayers in this area. I do not see the possibility that I would support this motion. Well, with regard to this Sote 100 package of laws, we really heard a large number of experts in the Committee on Finance, and there was almost unanimous opinion that the reform does not include incentives for quality and efficient service provision and that this does not improve services, but rather the contrary. I fully agree with Minister Kiuru that Finland, the country of growing need for care, needs reform, but it needs to improve the services, and this county war does exactly the opposite. The committee's opinion is very critical, very critical, but I understand that the government parties were not quite up to their conclusions, and the only conclusion is that the most responsible government would be to withdraw this proposal. The ministers themselves have said that the financing model is incomplete and I see no alternative. I am sure the Constitutional Committee will then take the view that Parliament must have the money when the reform is adopted. All in all, as far as Uusimaa is concerned, when we talk about EUR 300 to 400 million, this is not only about endangering basic services, but also about endangering our very high-quality special care. I would have liked this Sote 100 legislative package to have had the answer that has come unanimously from all university hospitals and their management, but their screams have not been heard here. Yes, there is a great risk that when education and research are not funded, for example, a high level of cancer research and thus patients' access to the best possible treatment will be jeopardised. But in conclusion, I say one thing: I run the Parliament of Parliament of Helsinki and Uusimaa, and we are about one quarter of the whole parliament. We, the presidency, made a joint statement in which we really raised concerns about these quiet funerals of the vitality of cities. We raised concerns about the impact of this reform on Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa, the whole of Uusimaa, rescue services, free fire brigades, all of this. Together, we have heard carefully the municipalities and representatives of our region, and the concern there is common and very serious. In the statement which has been distributed to the Committee on Finance, the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we ask that these serious concerns be corrected before this reform is adopted. We are concerned about the cuts in social welfare funding and the impact of this on the vitality of municipalities, but we are also concerned about the ability of municipalities to cope with their tasks and, in particular, cultural rights. The Mayor of Vantaa said,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u152	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u153	Madam President! We are now dealing with the so-called Government Sote 100 legislative package, which relates to this big social change package. I would like to raise a few points. First of all, one must wonder about the shortcomings of this legislative package. This includes substantive changes, although this was intended as a technical package of laws, and those changes are those that affect patient care and the work of social and health professionals. The first paragraph concerns Article 9 of the Health Care Act. ), which is proposed to be repealed. This deletion provides for a common register of patients for the public health care providers of hospital districts, i.e. in practice allows seamless movement of patient data between primary health care and specialised medical care. Now, in the Uusimaa region, special health care and primary health care remain in different areas, with HUS in charge of special care and then welfare areas in charge of basic care, and now this glue that keeps them together, that is, a common register, would mean that this reform would take health care back ten years. This plays an important role in the availability of patient data, in the work of nurses and doctors and also in patient safety. This takes a leap into the past if the current common register is removed from New Zealand. It must now be noted that in the rest of the country such a common register would be possible in the welfare area, but this would only be excluded from the Uusimaa region and A total of six different controllers would come to New Zealand. This would significantly hamper the smooth treatment of patients and compromise patient safety. My question is: Why has the government decided to dismantle a joint register in Uusimaa, even though according to the EU General Data Protection Regulation it would be possible to do so and according to Finnish data protection experts too? Why has such a decision been made? I hope Secretary Kiuru can answer that question. Are we gonna do something about this? Another thing which is also very regrettable is that even in this government proposal there are no regulations and solutions on how to organise and finance university-level social and health research. The status of university hospitals should be defined by law and the funding required to ensure that the situation does not lead to a deterioration of high-quality education and research and, above all, of high-quality care. Unfortunately, the Sote reform is breaking well-functioning practices, well-functioning care arrangements across Finland. One important issue is the financing and safeguarding of university hospitals. The maintenance of a university hospital requires resources different from those of a regional hospital or a central hospital, because they need to be prepared for narrow, specialised tasks, and it is unreasonable that the funding should be arranged in the welfare area when the university hospitals still happen to be located in those urban areas where funding is generally reduced in this social welfare reform. This does not make any sense and is not sustainable, and it does not make sense in the future to ensure high-quality care for patients and special care for patients. Integration of social welfare data in Uusimaa and consideration of the status of university hospitals in legislation are necessary to correct and clarify legislation. These are important issues for equal treatment, rights and the whole reform of social security, and these must be defined by law in the context of the social welfare package. It cannot be that the big social welfare package is adopted and these issues remain open. These are essential aspects of this whole legislative reform. Mr President! A few more things about the social reform itself. After all, the aim of the social welfare reform is to improve access to care and to provide sustainable funding. I am thinking of the growth in service needs and the ageing of the population. Now this government proposal on social security does not meet either of these objectives. This is not a constructive performance, this is a dissipating performance. This violates functioning structures, as I said: for example, the status of university hospitals and the activities of Heart Hospital and Coxa in Tampere are at risk, West Ostrobothnia Hospital, Savonlinna Hospital. There's a lot of stuff here. In student care, school curators and psychologists are being transferred to welfare areas, away from the school’s working community. You must not break what is not broken, but you must correct what is broken. And now, unfortunately, we are about to make the worst reform of the century,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u154	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u155	Madam President! We are dealing with other laws on the impact of the social security reform, which are almost 100, or so-called Sote 100. Sote reform is the most important and largest legal entity in this Parliament's spring period. I have also found a lot of criticisms based either on misunderstandings or on deliberate interpretations seeking justification for opposing this reform. I'd love to go through them all or at least the most important ones. There will be plenty of opportunities for it in the near future, so now I am quite aware of the second approach. The Public Health Act entered into force on 1 April 1972. It was a very important law that established basic health care in our country. In the previous decades, in the 1950s and 1960s, the focus of health care was the construction of a central hospital network, which was a major financial effort after the war years. In March 1985, Parliament held a two-day discussion on the health policy report under the leadership of Minister Kuuskoski-Vikatmaa. Over a hundred MPs took part in the debate. In the following year, the Government adopted a document entitled ‘Healthfor 2000: the longterm objectives and action programme of Finland’s health policy. It is still the most important health policy document in Finland. In 1991, the Special Hospital Care Act entered into force, linking 99 associations of hospitals to 21 joint municipal authorities in the Hospital District. At the end of Prime Minister Lipponen’s first government, a joint ambitious project between the state and municipalities was launched “Health Care for the 2000s”. It was continued by Lipponen's second government with the National Health Project in the early 2000s. The Best Project was launched during Prime Minister Vanhanen's first government. On this point, I would like to mention the following: Some representatives of the municipalities were disappointed at the time when it was not decided to transfer special care to the state, because it was precisely the year-on-year expenditure of special care that was perceived as a very difficult matter for the municipalities. On 29 August 2009, Prime Minister Vanhanen, Minister for Basic Service, Risikko, presented a model which was actually the first social model. According to this so-called Risko model, five major districts would be formed in our country to be responsible for special care and the most demanding social services, and other health and social services would be combined in so-called social welfare areas, such as cities or associations of municipalities of at least a certain size. However, the health care law, which entered into force in 2011, which is an important law, did not include these administrative reforms, but was adopted as a content law. The Government Programme of Prime Minister Katainen, which started in 2011, included a social welfare reform. It was based on the so-called strong basic municipalities that would provide basic services and on five major areas that would be responsible for special services. However, intensive and multi-stage preparation reached a dead end. It was tried by the rapporteurs appointed in the winter of 2013 and by the Orpo working group in the spring of 2013. The bill was completed in December 2013, but received extensive criticism because it was based on too many and too small social areas. In the spring of 2014, the government and opposition joined forces, i.e. all the eight parliamentary parties of that time, for which the great merit lies with the then opposition leader, Juha Sipilä. This model was radical: five social services in the whole country, which are responsible for all public services. Funding based on municipalities proved to be a drain. It would have been too restrictive for the self-government of municipalities to provide that municipalities continue to collect the financing of social services through taxation and then hand over a majority of this to be used and decided on to another administration. This is possible voluntarily, of course, and to a lesser extent this is being done at all times in the case of hospital districts. The parliamentary term for the years 2015 to 2019 is so recent that I am not going to go through its social welfare reform carefully. In November 2015, the internal negotiations of the then government had resulted in 18 regions and, so to speak, the state receiving the municipal money that is directed to the social welfare areas which organise social services. Part of this was the so-called freedom of choice model. However, the quickly prepared model which led to the preparation of a wide field and, in part, to the implementation of the experiments, has been put into legal difficulties because of the model chosen for multi-production and has not been implemented. The purpose of this brief historical review was to give the background to why we are now regulating social reform and why it is this kind of social reform. It is an administrative and economic reform which should have been carried out 10 to 15 years ago. The municipal social and health care system is highly unequal and is not economically sustainable, and voluntary cooperation between municipalities has not extended over ten years to cover even the fifth of our country's population, so we need the strength of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u156	Congressman Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u157	Mr President! The Sote 100 legislative package we have before us relates to this big, comprehensive reform of social and health services. First of all, a few words about this whole thing: There is a need to reform social and health services, but the way in which the government is reforming these services with this reform will not help us to get people to care more quickly and fluently. It does not bring us any more doctors, nurses or social workers, and this does not respond to one of our core issues. Another challenge for us in reforming social and health services is how we can make enough money for future services. Again, this reform will not provide a solution, and if we talk about how we can curb the increase in costs, this reform will actually increase the cost of social protection over the next ten years, which means that it will not provide us with a solution to sustainability. In addition, there are a number of elements limiting the use of private and third sector service providers. We see that this reform is a very public-government believer. In my view, public administration as such is one good service provider. We need all kinds of service providers, public, private and third sector service production, but unnecessary restrictions are being made here. And, as has been mentioned here before, even the good practices of our affiliated public companies, Coxa, Heart Hospital, some others, are being put at risk by this reform, and it is impossible to understand why they want to do so. In addition, this wrecks the activities of our current municipalities: Our welfare society today is equal to welfare municipalities. Local authorities are able to influence all aspects of human life with their instruments, and what this reform does is to take up some of these municipal tasks, create new breakpoints in services and take up a large part of the funding, on average two thirds of municipal tax revenue, and this will continue to affect the ability of municipalities to cope with the remaining tasks and also the financial position of municipalities, the ability to invest. In that way, this is a much wider issue than mere socialism. This reform will also have a central impact: This centralises both decision-making and services with a very high probability, and this concern is not at all alleviated by the fact that we have a huge amount of feedback and we have also received critical statements from a number of committees in relation to this social reform in the last week. The pace at which the reform of the social economy is now going to take effect before the summer is a matter of great concern. These concerns, expressed in this regard, will not be able to be taken into account in the decision-making capacity. I will come back to what Mr Lindén has just done with regard to the social reforms in history: I myself have spent more than ten years in different roles and always building different solutions, but, in fact, in this history, I personally come to the exact opposite conclusion. Now that several times different models have tried to do this mammoth social reform and it has fallen like dominoes or bumped into a wall and it has not been possible to do it, perhaps there is a place to stop and re-evaluate and think about how we can find the most effective solutions to these great issues. I venture to argue that with specific solutions we are able to produce these solutions; we are looking for the tools to speed up access to care for people and to strengthen their own influence and self-determination, to make use of knowledge and technology, to ensure that we have sufficient skilled labour, to build up those broad shoulders through cooperation between municipalities, and from there – the best is in fact a very good experience – and to reform funding, to bring incentives to that side. I believe that with these solutions we will get very far in this reform. So all I am saying is that such a major administrative reform should not be done just for the joy of reform or simply because we have had a mantra, that we should have a social reform. Now to this actual package of laws, the Sote 100, which we are now dealing with today: here too, although it is said to be technical, there are a number of significant shortcomings, and in this speech I will now take up the loss of information and the forgetfulness of university hospitals. A section on the seamless transfer of patient data between primary health care and special care is being removed from this law, which raises great concern in Uusimaa. This is actually a ten-year withdrawal to health care. Instead of looking for obstacles to the common register, solutions should be sought to improve the integration of information, because I dare say that the information systems in social and health care are still too far apart to get the information to the best of our ability to support customer care and information management. On the contrary, we should invest more and more in this by making it more accessible and supporting these processes. In addition, this government social security package, as well as the actual legislative package, still lacks provisions and solutions on how to organise and finance university research and education in social and health care. This status of university hospitals must be defined by law, and funding in accordance with this task must be secured so as not to jeopardise a high level of education and research. This is challenging because it seems that even the government does not seem to have a very clear picture of how the solution is being brought to this. If we are carrying forward such a major reform without solving the role of university hospitals, I find it alarming. Mr President! Both the integration of data in Uusimaa and the status of university hospitals at national level are so important for equal treatment, rights and the entire social welfare reform that these must be defined by law in the context of the actual social welfare package. These cannot remain open when this social reform is decided in this Chamber. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u158	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u159	Mr President! This legislative package is about technical changes resulting from legislation on social welfare reform and would also provide a substantive supplement to the information management related to Uusimaa’s separate solution. Of the contributors, Espoo, Lohja, Inkoo, Kirkkonummi and Raasepori have pointed out that the new regulation would mean that the welfare area will not be able to obtain patient data for information management in another welfare area in the future, and therefore HUS would not be able to obtain information on welfare areas under the law for its own information management. Mr President! We are talking here about the Sote 100 legislative package, but in this context we should also talk about the actual social reform, because I think that these, which I have just listed, reflect very well the way in which this reform has been prepared. Last week, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we concluded the opinion and, although I have been in Parliament for the third term, I have never before been in a parliamentary committee in such a way that something is being broken through in such a way as to result in an opinion which, as it were, has turned the views of experts. Overall, the views were very negative, but nevertheless a positive opinion was obtained in some way by the majority of the government parties. I find that very amazing. I believe that the main problems in this area relate to the financing model and access to services. Firstly, as far as funding is concerned, it has been very under-estimated how much money is actually already going to go into this preparation and, secondly, what is going to be done on an annual basis. In other words, even in the period from 2021 to 2022, an estimated 550 million will be spent on preparatory work, the majority of which will be these ict costs, followed by a total of between EUR 350 million and EUR 850 million for wage harmonisation and other administrative arrangements. These costs have been estimated at a very low level here, and my argument is that when it comes to wage harmonisation, these costs have been calculated by means of median wages, although in practice they are very likely to have to be adjusted upwards, which means that these costs are certainly closer to this 850 than this 350 million. Mr President! It should also be noted that experts have stated on several occasions that there are no improvements in the provision of services, access to services, and that there may even be a deterioration in the availability of services for some people. This is based on the fact that in the future this system, which we now have, will depend increasingly on public service provision and these legislative changes will have a lot of restrictions on private and third sector operators, which have so far been widely used across Finland. The fact that these changes will then be brought about is very likely to lead to a deterioration in the queue situation and to the continued use of private or occupational health services by many, but those who cannot, for example, obtain insurance are in a worse position. And in that sense, Mr President, I am surprised at this social reform, because I believe that the objective of the left-wing government is precisely to reduce inequality and not to increase it. [of the Socialist Group : Just like!] Mr President! I would also like to highlight the statements that we, the people of the United States, have made. We are therefore concerned about both this funding and the increase in inequality as a result of this reform of social security. These 13 draft statements are as follows: Firstly, we hope that Parliament will require that the obligation to use an official doctor be waived. In several hearings with experts, we learned that the use of an official doctor increases bureaucracy and costs and focuses decision-making on the public side and also complicates the development of a doctor-patient relationship. Section 2: ‘The Commission requires that private operators continue to have the right to organise their Section 3: ‘The Commission requires that advisory services are not defined as public activities. “ Many experts who have been consulted here said that it is precisely in the maternity clinics that it actually prevents outsourcing or private service providers from being used and that in practice it also obliges them to dismantle existing outsourcing. [Anneli Kiljunen’s interlude] Mr President! Section 4: ‘The special features of the capital region, such as migration growth and segregation, need to be taken into account in the financial calculations. “ The opinion of cities made it clear that the question of the welfare costs of immigration has not been adequately addressed, particularly in the capital region. Section 5: ‘The Commission requires that restrictions on sub-contracting be lifted. “ The explanatory memorandum states that subcontracting may not exceed 32 % to 49 %. Section 6: ‘The Commission requires that public and private service providers be treated equally.’ Paragraph 7: ‘The Commission requires that the costs of public and privateservices be compared with a Section 8: ‘The Commission requires that the organisation and production of services be separated from the Section 9: ‘...that the use of services is possible in all non-urgent Section 10: ‘...to ensure that experts continue to work as a professional’. Section 11: ‘...encourage the development ofreceivements, e-services and other ways of improving the productivity and quality And the last two:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u160	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u161	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Debate and representative Mäkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Now we will continue the debate, which was a little short-lived earlier in the day. At that time, there was a very strong concern that there have been a wide range of ambiguities in relation to these arguments and to the actual articles and legal provisions in relation to this reform of social security. Perhaps one of the central ambiguities, and perhaps the misunderstanding, has been that this social model should now, in some way, drive down the private sector as a whole. In this context, it should be understood and taken into account that this model is still a multi-producer model. For example, welfare areas are not prohibited from doing total outsourcing within their territory in the articles of the Act of Organization. The only question is that not all services in a particular sector can be outsourced, and we will certainly all understand why this is the case. Those arguments are very clear. And I must admit that even in my own hometown there are unfortunate examples of how, for example, the 24-hour care of elderly people has lost several hundred people, the elderly, the 24-hour operating unit, and yes, it was an acute crisis at a time when the city had to be able to take responsibility back so that these elderly people were not left entirely to their own devices. But all the same, there will be a great deal of discretion and decision-making in welfare areas as to the way services are produced in this area, and just as much as there are private operators and organisations in this cooperation today, because it is quite clear that without the private sector and its complementary role these services will simply not be able to be secured, and that is why this government proposal does not in any way assume that this multi-producer model will be abandoned. And the very central role of the service vouchers still in use is extremely important, particularly for SMEs, and on the other hand, the fact that these tenders and acquisitions are carried out at a sufficiently small level, so that these players in the region are genuinely able to participate in these competitions. But perhaps one thing that needs to be said in this context is that there has been a lot of debate on the criteria for determining funding, and it is common knowledge that there are still some uncertainties. It is therefore of the utmost importance that these criteria and the coefficients of the factors of need be further supplemented and updated by current calculations before the entry into force of this law. But we in Central Finland have a concern at the moment with regard to the rescue services, and that is quite relevant. It seems to us that some EUR 3 million in funding the rescue services would now be falling. It is true, of course, that the whole of the welfare areas will receive some EUR 1 billion in money for the provision of these services, and it is certainly the case that a certain amount of money can then be allocated there, but all the same, since we now know that, in this model, however, public authorities have a final responsibility for genuinely organising these services, so it is important that these precise criteria for calculating the rescue services also be clarified and supplemented, just as all these other criteria and calculations will be treated. And this is actually the case that I believe that this concern is widely shared in so far as there are areas where this will be realised. The need for such a uniform national calculation model is, of course, extremely important to curb the rise in these costs, but in Central Finland, for example, the cost of rescue services has been higher than average, and that is the result of this situation at the moment. I personally believe that these types of problems will be resolved, but this is a problem that needs to be raised in this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u163	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u164	Mr President! Here we are dealing with the so-called Sote 100 legislative package, which means that there are technical changes of this kind to a great extent, but these may have far-reaching implications. What is sad about this is that these Sote 100 laws do not in any way help this difficult situation, which we now have at hand, when we should get the best of this social reform here in Parliament. Unfortunately, it is by no means yet. That is a totally unrealistic timetable. Access to services will not help anything. This is a mere administration, and it is only an increase in the administration. The organisation and production of services are concentrated, but so are the services themselves. Of course, the regional centres can manage for sure, because that is where they focus, but what about the other, peripheral areas? I am very sad about what, for example, is happening in our region, in southern Ostrobothnia and in the Ostrobothnia region, this social welfare reform will mean for these other municipalities. The financial model is unfortunately shocking, because that means that a great many people are losing money, including the provinces of the region that I mentioned. Then this reform will deepen the sustainability gap, because not all the costs that this will entail have been calculated. After all, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has brought them before, but now the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has brought out quite new items of expenditure that had not yet appeared, and what does that mean when many millions of municipalities leave now? In addition, Kela compensations will be removed because this private allergy is so strong in this government, and then it was the top of everything that public bodies are now under the loop, that is to say, for example, the Heart Hospital and Coxa, which have proved to be very high-quality cost-effective organisations for treating patients, are now being driven down. I cannot understand the fact that if you are a publicly owned company and you are afraid that it will go bankrupt when it is one hour when the general meeting and its hospital districts take over. These examples, of which the previous speech was concerned, are such sad cases that the private sector has gone bankrupt, but this is about public companies. Well, on the whole, I would say that the services of student and student care will be weakened and then the ability of municipalities to influence the health care of their residents will be completely weakened. When that municipal citizen lives there in the municipality and there it is given some kind of conditions for its well-being, the municipality should also have the opportunity to influence his social welfare and health services. — I will continue with the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u165	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u166	Madam President! Even in the time of the Koronapandemia, the Marin government is crushing through its social reform. The same parties that, last season, underscored the need for a historic major reform such as the wars to be carried out with the attention of experts and with the consideration of alternatives, have now thrown these good principles into a scrap heap. The committees on the subject are now disrupting the distance meetings of the Teams, according to the report, at their worst by more than one meeting a day. Usually it is only the wolf and the second, and that is what is happening in this case as well. You'll find valuables here and there. One of the main failings in the process is that the reform also endangers the funding and position of the rescue services and thus the safety services that are important to Finns. The deficit in the rescue service is approximately EUR 80 million and has been granted by both the Marin Government's Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs Minister, Ohio. Of the new welfare areas, my own province, Central Finland, would be one of the biggest losers. In relation to the deficit we would have EUR 12 per capita, i.e. a total of good EUR 3.2 million. I now appeal to the Government, and specifically to the representatives of the Middle-Finnish Government parties, to remedy this deficit. It is important that the way in which we all need to organise and produce social services is reformed, but it should not be at the expense of the everyday safety of the Middle Finnish citizen. In the same context, I hope that the government will otherwise correct the general financing model for social welfare reform. The problem here is, from the point of view of the rescue services, that the planned new financing model would not have a concrete firewall between the funding of the rescue services and other social security operators. That is why Mr Mäkinen's speech, which he made, was in the right direction, but I am afraid it will remain just a word. We know that in the coming years the population of Finland will age and the pressures on the side of social spending will increase. This will lead to future austerity pressures in welfare areas. As it is difficult to save on social welfare expenditure due to the extensive legal framework, it is likely that savings in welfare areas will be sought on the rescue services side. This is certainly not the future that no decision maker wants.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u167	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u168	Mr President! Two excellent speeches were made here on the rescue services, and as a former Minister of the Interior, I am very pleased that you have taken account of the funding of the rescue services. In fact, when it is universally covered and is not really earmarked in any way, there is a great risk that when more money is needed in the mess, which is absolutely inevitable when service needs increase, it will then be taken out of the rescue service. The sad thing about this is that the objectives of the rescue services are being raised but the appropriations are being calculated, and that will be very serious, and I am pleased that this concern has been expressed here. Of course, I would have expected similar concerns from the government parties at the time of the adoption of the regulation on the concentration of special care, which came into force in January. It turned out that at the very last metres the Central Finland Central Hospital station was wiped out. There was nothing but a line drawn on the Central Finland Central Hospital in its title, and it was unforgivable to me. At one time, when a centralization regulation was adopted in my own time, it would not have occurred to me that it would be changed in such a way that Central Finland’s central hospital would have to give up these centralised services in that way. Well, many other people suffer there, of course, but especially central Finland's central hospital, and I am very pleased that there, for example, representatives of the Parliament specifically from the assembly and other co-operative decision-makers are trying to fight that this would not happen. Then the Sote 100 laws, all in all. There are some such themes here, such as this law on secondary use of social and health information. It is an important point, however, that it should be taken forward, and precisely so that it would help and not weaken the services. There is now a great risk that this model, which is being presented here, will weaken the situation. Then, all in all, this question of the integration of Uusimaa: it is quite a matter of its own, the integration of services here, because this will be a different model from the rest of Finland. I am not saying that it is any worse or better, but the integration challenge is. And then the top of everything is this law on cross-border health care, which has still not been brought into this house, that is, this EU directive, the patient mobility directive, which should have been implemented a long time ago. It was almost ready at the time of the last season, but then it fell with the fall of this whole, but now we have to get this cross-border healthcare quickly. At least it would help in this chaos. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u169	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. 30 minutes are now set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — The debate begins, Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u170	Mr President! On Friday, 30 April 21, the Government submitted a proposal to Parliament to amend Article 58d of the Act on Diseases and to amend the Act on Contagious Diseases temporarily. The proposal proposes to amend Article 58d(4)(1) of the Act on communicable diseases in such a way that in future, close contact would mean the presence of people face-to-face or within the same interior at a distance of less than two metres from each other for more than 15 minutes. This change would not require a distance of 2 metres to other persons in areas with territorial or functional limits. Thus, the two-metre safety distance would only apply to indoor activities. The proposed change would make it easier to organise various outdoor events and sports and sports services as the disease situation improves. At present, the provisional provisions of the Act on communicable diseases remain in force until 30 June 1991, but, in the event of the continued epidemic of covid-19, it is still necessary to extend the provisions, however, with this correction that has just been noted. The proposal therefore proposes to extend the existing Articles 58a to 58h, 59a to 59e and Article 91(1) until 31.12.21. Mr President! The number of new covid-19 cases has clearly fallen in Finland over the last five weeks, which is a sign that the epidemic is now calming down. The recommendations and restrictions that have been made have ultimately produced results and are now a serious obstacle to the emergence of infections. The progression of coronavirus vaccines is also reflected in the specific areas of responsibility. In the whole country, over 88 percent of those aged 70 or over have already received one vaccination, and in our country, the vaccine program is moving at a tight pace. Although the national incidence has decreased, there are still large regional differences in the incidence and time development of the epidemic in Finland. It should be noted, for example, that today’s statistics show that six regions are at more than 50 incidences, i.e. between 50 and 100 incidences, per two weeks per 100,000, and at the same time it should be noted that two regions are at nearly 50 incidences. And so it can be said that Finland's incidence is still high in almost 50-100 regions, which are therefore eight in this logic. That is far too much for 21 regions. The situation can also deteriorate rapidly in other areas, at baseline and in accelerated stages, if there is a significant increase in people-to-people contacts and a more free spread of infections among the population. In addition, the virus variants that have already been detected in Finland and have become more widespread in recent weeks bring considerable uncertainty to these positive prospects I have just described, even for the baseline regions. The risk of conversion viruses occurring in all regions of Finland is true today, and for these virus variants, too, the situation may become uncertain and deteriorating. The most contagious British variant has spread widely in Finland, and there are clear findings of its spread to the mainstream virus population. As was threatened in March by Finland and as has already been the case in several countries, it is the virus that has caused an increase in the number of serious disease events and has caused a rapid overload of hospital and intensive care capacity. Overburdening capacity not only endangers the treatment of those infected with corona but also delays in treatment for those suffering from other diseases and a significant deterioration in the quality of treatment. Mr President! Of course, the epidemic situation for the rest of the year cannot be fully predicted at this stage. There are already examples of situations in the world where the covid-19 epidemic has skyrocketed after the epidemic has subsided and restrictive measures have been dismantled, and this shows that despite the improving disease situation, infection rates can suddenly increase and the epidemic situation can worsen significantly even in a short period of time. The restriction regulation mentioned in the proposal does not alone influence the spread of the corona virus, but the restrictions have clearly been a necessary and necessary part of the range of instruments to be used in the various areas of public authority, such as recommendations, restrictions and obligations. It must be borne in mind that the greater the lack of provisions on fundamental rights, the higher the threshold for their application. The validity of the provisions does not in itself imply the introduction of restrictive measures, but they are included in the choice of means. Mr President! The Act on communicable diseases aims to prevent communicable diseases and their spread and their harm to people and society. In principle, measures should be proactive in order to effectively prevent the spread of the epidemic. Therefore, in a situation where the covid-19 epidemic continues to pose a significant global threat to human health and life, and in a situation where new virus variants are still being discovered, it is necessary for the authorities to have the means provided by law to prevent and prevent the spread of the epidemic if the epidemic situation in Finland worsens again. In this way, the necessary measures can be taken in a proactive and timely manner to protect people's lives and health and to ensure the carrying capacity of health care. Anticipated and timely action can save lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u171	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u172	Madam President! Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases, which is under consideration The Act on communicable diseases would be amended and the Act on communicable diseases temporarily amended so that a number of amendments to the Act on communicable diseases would remain in force until the end of the year. This is a significant bill, although temporary because it affects a significant number of companies, traders and employees. Fortunately, the current epidemic situation is heading in a more favourable direction, as Mr Kiuru has just said. However, many entrepreneurs have been in a very difficult and distressing situation for a year now, not only for restaurant entrepreneurs but also for entrepreneurs in various sports sectors, entrepreneurs in the event sectors, and this extension of the law will cause more anxiety and anxiety, mental health problems for these entrepreneurs when they are constantly forced to live in fear of their activities being restricted again for the rest of the year. It is understandable that some of these measures will be maintained, for example, in relation to health-professional practices, but there is a very tough bill here, which allows the regulation to impose, for example, on restaurants to close their doors at 7 p.m. and on alcohol serving earlier. This is a very important issue for food nutritional conditions, and many companies have already gone bankrupt. Many workers have been laid off and laid off, and this certainly contributes to the fact that many workers will continue to be laid off, and unfortunately these workers are often those who are young and who may have many different employment relationships and pay levels not even very high. Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was very careful about the validity of these amendments to the Act on communicable diseases, precisely because it must be necessary and timely to start restricting economic activity, and it would now be important for the Constitutional Committee to carefully assess whether such a long term mandate can be given to the ministry to re-impose such tough measures without its being assessed between Parliament and Parliament. These are valid until the end of June, and it is, of course, in that summer's ear, but Parliament's summer breaks must not be in the process of defining how to legislate if necessary. If necessary, we'll have to regroup here if things get worse again. Mr President! I am also raising the issue of border security, because at the moment there is internal border control at the borders and passenger numbers are very small and at the moment the borders can be managed, but when internal border controls are abolished, the traffic levels at the borders will increase in an essential way, and if they are not in use, then they will become a new virus variant. Let me ask you this: what is fair and fair? If sufficient action is not taken at the borders, it may again lead to these severe restrictions, which are likely to affect children and young people in addition to entrepreneurs, businesses and businesses. This possibility of cross-border interest rate leakage must be blocked and should be a priority measure, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry and the Government to get the Finnish border to hold. Mr President! I'm going to put out some face masks here. As the Act on infectious diseases is being updated again, why could it not have been brought up to the level of the law because it would have been simple to do? Once again, many times, this Act on communicable diseases is being discussed here in Parliament, and it would have been a little trouble to bring it up to the level of the law. People are already used to wearing masks. Let me finish by highlighting the predictability of business operations. It's very important. There has been an unclassical lack of knowledge in advance of the constraints that can be imposed on businesses, both for entrepreneurs and for workers, and it is still uncertain at the moment, and this bill will, unfortunately, continue to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u173	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u174	Madam President! I did look forward to what the Assembly would suggest in this connection, but perhaps we will hear it later. It is somehow very easy to be in the opposition at a time like this, when there is such a belief that this positive development, which has been achieved in five weeks, has become completely self-evident, regardless of the fact that there have been quite strong restrictions introduced here, which were also criticised from there on the right side of the hall. But they have brought, of course, the benefit, together with vaccinations, of having an incidence of less than 60 at the moment when it reached its highest level in 175 — a dramatic change in five weeks, and it is no coincidence that it has come since we introduced these strongest restrictions. Somehow it seems that when we talk about the tools that we must have for it, if things get worse, then they are demonised and seen as very bad. I would say that we currently have the situation that this whole country's incidence rate, that is, per 100,000 inhabitants in two weeks, is 55, which is quite good, but in Päijät-Häme it is 97, in Uusimaa 90, in Varsinais-Suomi 82, in Western Ostrobothnia 75 and Pirkanmaa 59. These are over 55 of them all, and there are 3 million Finns living in these areas. So, unfortunately, this corona is not over, neither for us nor for the rest of the world. In the previous debate, I referred to the startling news in Bavaria when their huge mass event, Oktoberfest, with about 5 to 6 million visitors per year, was cancelled in September-October. It seemed so far away, and many of us had certainly thought that the interest rate in Finland and Central Europe would be over by the autumn at the latest. After all, we hope that it will be over at some point, but there is a time for radical conclusions there, too, in an area dominated by the sister party of the Coalition Party, but it has been necessary to go. So I'm the one who's got to be responsible for this now. It is very good that we are continuing with this legislation in this respect, we are doing that little fine-tuning, which is related to distances in the outdoors. The question is, as I have already said, that we must have the instruments. They won't be used unless it's necessary. There are many other pretty tough articles in the Act on Disease Control, which can then be used in other bad situations: there are isolation clauses and there are many others. It does not mean, when those articles are there, that people are put into some kind of isolation or quarantine, unless there are some very specific arguments for such a thing. That is why we must also have these articles in the equipment so that they can be applied if necessary. That is what this is all about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u175	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u176	Madam President! As Mr Lindé said earlier, we certainly still need equipment, and unfortunately this covid epidemic is not over, although we are always going in the right direction and hopefully we will soon get rid of it. But what worries me about this proposal, too, is whether we have sufficiently well understood the positive effects of sport on public health, on the physical and mental health of the entire population. I am concerned that, in my opinion, we have had some oversized restrictions specifically on physical activity, i.e. we have closed down gyms or large sports facilities, for example, where it would have been possible to continue this exercise at safety intervals and with enhanced hygiene. Of course, outdoor exercise is always recommended, but not everyone is doing it, and if you also consider the prevention of this more serious covid disease, more than 80 per cent of people in intensive care in Finland are overweight and it is important to pay attention to this exercise in controlling the obesity problem. What worries me here is that, as a new issue, we are now defining internal contacts at a distance of less than two metres to be banned, and this is already happening at a relatively low incidence. For example, ball sports, martial arts, and dance sports, there will be contact, and yet the total number of these infections in hobbies and gyms has been relatively low. I myself would like to see sports and sports opportunities opened up as soon as possible in order to have a positive impact on public health, especially for young people, but it is important for everyone, both older and middle-aged. In my opinion, it would be quite critical of the committee to consider whether this is really necessary in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u177	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u178	Thank you, Madam President. It is perfectly understandable that articles of the Act on Diseases are needed to impose restrictions where the situation of infection so requires. It is also good that the articles are now in force until the end of the year and will not be amended every three months. I am therefore not opposed to the adoption of this proposal as such. What I consider problematic, however, is the functioning of the government when it has adopted regulations that are possible under the law. Vaccinations are progressing, and infection rates are now dropping all over the country. Already in five provinces, the incidence is less than 10, but what is the government doing? Has the restrictions been lifted or relaxed when the disease situation would make it possible? Restrictions on restaurants are still quite strict, although only 2.4% of all infections were traced to restaurants during weeks 1 to 8. Restaurants in Uusimaa and Varsinais-Suomi are still not allowed to eat at night. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health required in the statements contained in its report 9 that restrictions should be proportionate to the current epidemic situation, that economic losses should be compensated for to restaurants, that the different risk profiles of the outdoor and indoor areas should be taken into account, and that lighter restrictions should be imposed on less risky activities. Dear government, would you please tell us how long you intend to continue to discipline the restaurants? When in Helsinki can you go to the terrace and drink a pint after a working day, even if you get off work after five? Or when in my hometown of Salo can you eat at the restaurant also at 8:00 p.m.? Many entrepreneurs would like answers to these questions, because their livelihood depends on these decisions and is of great importance to their employees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u179	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u180	Mr President! This is where the provisions of the Act on communicable diseases are being extended until the end of the year, and it certainly has a good purpose and a well-founded purpose. However, there are individual areas of activity and issues which may be worth paying attention to, and I am sure that we will do so in the committees. But I myself am rather concerned about the same things as Mr Räsänen before: remembering that the well-being of Finns is more than just being off the corona. It is also very much related to sport, sport, sports clubs. Now, a new provision is being introduced to prohibit indoor contact or stay at a distance of less than two metres. And here, too, there is a rather low rate of incidence, given the situation described by Mr Lindén, for example, right there, where we have been and where we are at the moment. It says here that when there are 25 cases of disease per 100,000 inhabitants in two weeks, these restrictions could be met. And, Mr President, I am also concerned when it is known that Finland is a large country geographically and we have large medical districts and provinces, even though it is said that Uusimaa or Lapland, where there may be one region where there are these centres of disease, but then geographically the rest of the area is almost corona-free. It seems unfair not only to those entrepreneurs but also to those who are moving, that this whole region should be looked at in a similar way, so that I hope that the aim here is to be able to deal more finely with these areas as well and to remember that the welfare of our citizens really depends largely on the possibilities of mobility, especially when this corona situation has lasted for so long.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u181	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u182	Mr President! We have called for solutions to this situation in the Assembly, and, as I pointed out in my previous speech, hygiene practices and compliance with them are of course important. I also raised this face mask issue, where the government has an attitude problem, and there are many others that people have already learned here during this epidemic of behavior. But these amendments to the Act on Contagion Diseases, which have been made, have been made very tight and strict at their most severe. And, as we have seen, they will then be introduced and, of course, introduced particularly in those areas where the levels of infection are higher, in Uusimaa and Varsinais-Suomi. Of course, that could be anywhere in Finland. At the same time, these areas are subject to significant burdens, whether it be the exercise of children and young people or the exercise of other people, in terms of well-being and mental health, and also, as I said before, in terms of entrepreneurs and livelihoods, in terms of people's livelihood. We should find such a golden middle road to how many people are ready to whip with different limitations. Now it's getting better, and that's a good thing. Mr Lindén pointed out here that these restrictions have had an impact, but I ask: How many infections have occurred, for example, from those gyms? How many infections have left food restaurants? We have not received any answers to these in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u185	Congressman Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u186	Madam President! Representative Päivi Räsänen raised the issue of physical activity and related questions. I'm glad it came up. The price of mobility for society is billions, slightly depending on how it is calculated. That scale is many billions of dollars, but in any case billions are being talked about. Now, in the corona era — and for reasons that are very much understood, of course — restrictions have been imposed. Sometimes there has been a little overshooting, sometimes undershooting, but in any case the public has been faced with a situation in which movement has become more difficult, especially indoors. Of course, it is particularly worrying that children and young people have had to quit the hobby, and when it comes to a one - year break for a young person in a hobby, it can then be the last break and it is difficult to get back to the hobby when this situation makes it easier. My wish to the ministers in that box is that, when you deal with these issues in the government, you could, as far as you can, consider ways of reducing this exercise debt and, in particular, the children's mobility debt and the threshold for finding a hobby back. I have no direct answers to how it is done, but you have the civil service in the back, and I am sure you have good ideas. It's important. It's common to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u187	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u188	Madam President! I also asked to speak in this debate when it is said so often that it is not possible to know how many infections have come from a food restaurant, how many have come from an alcoholic restaurant, how many have come from gyms, how many have come from jobs, how many have come from buses, how many have come from a nearby train and so on and so on. There's no way to know. This kind of coronavirus is not a color ball that flies from person to person in such a way that it can be traced from all parts and know from whom and when it has come and into whom it has ended up. What we know about this is that close contact between people, especially in the interior, exposes them, and no country in the world has been better able to approach this issue than Finland, but we will then have to target these restrictions on close contact between people and especially on the interior. What has been said about exercise, I fully agree with the previous speakers. Exercise is absolutely essential for public health, and fortunately, more than that at individual level has, of course, been able to move around under Finnish conditions all the time, whether it's skiing, running or anything else, but for social activity, this is undoubtedly a challenge — under the name 'Two', hopefully even a talented, young-grandparent'.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u189	Now we have the time for this again, and I would like to give Mr Kiuru the floor for 1 to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u190	Yes, Mr President, I will be quick. Various contributions were made here as a whole, and it is quite clear that the restrictions are distressing both the nation and its supreme decision-making body, and there has been a lot of debate in this Chamber about what kind of restrictions we will tolerate in relation to their effectiveness and what we will regulate. First of all, I would like to draw attention to Mrs Lundén's speech on these restrictions and their relation to the disease situation. You said that: this is exactly what is being done. In Finland, we have a significant share of the basic level and a few areas in the acceleration phase, where restaurant regulation has been liberalised as soon as possible. Seriously, this means it's related to the disease situation. I do not know whether you have looked at the statistics of the day — I said in that recent referral that we need to understand here how sharp we are with regard to the regions that are still at the point of spreading the epidemic. We have six regions in the range 50 to 100 per 100,000 per two weeks and two areas in the range of almost 50 per week. I am talking about eight regions, and it is difficult to think that these regions will be able to reach a tolerance stage if we have the first attitude of opening up all the restrictions. It's totally against the hybrid strategy when ours is at its highest 50. We have been over that hybrid strategy for several months in the very European incidence rates, and yes, we must also be responsible for the nation's continued existence in these areas as well. I am really concerned for the people who live in the distribution areas whether they will have any summers at all at this time. That is why the disease situation is crucial when restrictions are lifted, and we have a good example of the fact that some have been completely freed, slowly moving in that direction, and that is what we will continue to do. In other words, the purpose of restaurant restrictions is to completely free the opening hours when that is the case. And briefly, President, about this 25/10,000. Mr Kauma took it with his teeth, and I understand that the opposition must be a terrier of all kinds, but you will also understand here that 25,000,000 per two weeks — which means that we are in a period of strong agitation, the epidemic may spread to the stage of spread. Is it not necessary at that stage, at the point of acceleration, to assess whether more stringent measures can be taken to ensure that this does not spread to the stage of spread? Now that is the question which you will have to consider here in Parliament. We are not here alone in this box, but this is a nation-wide game, and now this performance has been brought here to open up the outdoors for the summer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u191	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u192	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. Congressman Wallinheim, gone. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u193	Mr President! There was still an infectious disease law here, and the Minister said that this will continue to change the articles of the Act on communicable diseases, and this will specifically take account of the distances between them. I think it is good that they have been considered. We have been talking all along about tailoring these, because we have a very different situation in different regions with regard to this disease. That is why I am pleased that that customization has gone on in the final games, although not quite as the Coalition Party has suggested, i.e. to take account of that area. After these corona fists came, those regional fists, so to speak, then things started to happen, and that's where the customization takes place. Now this change, that there are some looser rules out there, is welcome, because yes, this country needs to open up a little, because now that the disease situation is better, then it is worth raising that life and breathing a little more freely. We never know how long this vaccination will take and how quickly the herd protection will actually be obtained and how these vaccines will react and how long the immunity will last. But at least we now have a good model for this vaccination, and then more and more information about the behavior of the disease is being gained. But I say that we still have to follow this foreign traffic. It's still not exactly what it's supposed to be. Yes, we must have the right to demand that they have been vaccinated or tested, because unfortunately there are transgenic viruses from abroad that are often resistant to these vaccines. Well, yeah, but anyway, it's a good thing we've gotten a little bit out of here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u194	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of half an hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — The debate begins, Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u195	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal proposes to extend until the end of June the validity of the Act on temporary derogations from the Unemployment Protection Act in force as a result of the covid-19 epidemic until the end of September 2021. The aim is therefore to continue to ensure the livelihood of employees in situations where employment ends temporarily or completely, and to support the reception of work and the regional mobility of labour. The proposal proposes to extend the temporary changes aimed at simplifying the provisions on unemployment benefit in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the workload required for examining the application for benefits. The proposals for streamlining the provisions concern certain situations of reconciliation of unemployment benefit and early payment of unemployment benefit without a decision. In addition, the proposal proposes to temporarily extend the protection component of EUR 500 following the conciliation of unemployment benefits, which is the proportion that is not taken into account in the payment of the adjusted unemployment benefit. It is also proposed to extend the temporary derogation from the condition for full-time commuting. These changes will increase unemployment security expenditure by an estimated €19.4 million. This is mainly due to the continuation of the temporary increase in the unemployment benefit component. For the rest, changes are estimated to have minor economic effects. Mr President! During the Covid-19 epidemic, changes to the unemployment protection legislation have been aimed at safeguarding the position of unemployed job seekers. As a result of the interest-rate crisis, the number of people benefiting from unemployment benefits remains exceptionally high. That is why the extension of the temporary derogations now being presented is justified. The Act is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to be provisionally in force until 30.9.2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u196	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — The debate begins, Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u197	Madam President! The Government's proposal for legislation on pension funds, pension funds and insurance funds, as well as some related laws, concerns the overall reform of the legislation governing the activities of the above-mentioned institutions. The proposal has no impact on pensions or other benefits. The proposal proposes to introduce a law on pension funds and pension funds, a law on supplementary pension funds and supplementary pension funds, and a new insurance fund law. The existing Pension Foundations Act and the Insurance Fund Act and the Law on Payment-Based Supplementary Pension Schemes in Pension Foundations and Pension Funds would be repealed. The aim of the proposal is to introduce a more structurally clearer regulation than the existing Pension Foundations Act and the Insurance Fund Act, which would distinguish between the provisions applicable to institutions engaged in different social insurance activities. The regulation on liquidation and bankruptcy of the Pension Foundation and the Pension Fund would also be clarified. Clearer legislation will reduce the problems caused by unclear legislation and the resulting disadvantages for pension insurance activities. The proposal has no direct effect on statutory benefits, but it has indirect effects on the entire pension scheme. Although the benefits insured under the statutory occupational pension scheme are not dependent on the institution in which the insurance cover is provided, effective and effective implementation of the employment pension legislation will safeguard the interests of the insured and will contribute to an adequate and sustainable level of pension provision. In the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme, pension insurance companies, pension funds and pension funds carry out pension insurance. This is part of the fragmentation of the pension system, which promotes risk management and safeguards the interests of insured persons. The number of pension foundations and pension funds has been declining for a long time, and at present they account for around 4% of statutory occupational pension insurance. The aim of the proposal is to maintain pension foundations and pension funds as functional pension institutions with specific characteristics. The establishment and continuation of pension foundations and pension funds would be promoted by enabling the operation of slightly smaller institutions. The transfer of the portfolio from an employment pension insurance company to a pension fund and fund carrying out statutory activities would be facilitated by changing the size of the portfolio to be transferred, the requirements for supplementing the solvency capital of the host institution and the calculation of the transferred solvency capital. The laws are intended to enter into force at the beginning of 2022. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u198	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u199	Madam President! In this referral debate, I now send my greetings to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and pay particular attention to health funds. They're a small part of this whole thing. Most of this is definitely linked to these pension funds and pension insurance institutions and foundations, which the Minister has also mentioned here. When I was working, I worked mainly in industrial areas — I am thinking, above all, of Pori and Turku — and there were very important job funds that provided additional benefits for the treatment of the disease. Of course, they have usually existed in Finnish industrial municipalities, Tampere and even smaller localities, where there have been significant industrial plants, and it has been characteristic of them. I always thought this system was very good. It was one in which the employees themselves participated in the management of its cashier and then provided additional benefits. Typical, for example, in the city of Pori it was that medical expenses, dental allowances, X - ray examinations, physical treatments, and doctor’s appointments could then be financed to a significant extent, and this would compensate for the cost of the illness. In greetings to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I hope that special attention will be paid to this aspect. In other words, there is no intention whatsoever to undermine the operating conditions of the sickness funds. They could continue where they still exist at the moment. I understand that perhaps 150,000 people in Finland would still be in sickbay.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u200	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Minister Harakka announced the problem of timetables — apparently not here — so let us go to the next speaker. Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u201	Madam President! In the government's proposal, I am somewhat disturbed by the way in which the additional cost for municipalities will be compensated. Or it is not just the intention here that this whole project should be paid for the backs of hauliers, if we are talking about the purchase of cars in the transport of waste? Madam President! This is something that comes to mind when I have been wondering for a while now, which is why waste shipments are intended to scrap the dual system at a really fast pace. Is this the reason why we have to scrap it so that we can make this government proposal work better? And is it because of this same issue that the taxi reform revealed that STM has not solved in any way the problem of access to social services? Is that why we need to get this wrapped up in there first and then we can get these things done? It may be that this is Mr Laakso's foil hating, but somehow this coincidence would just give us a different idea. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u202	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u203	Madam President! Now that these public procurements of transport services are going to take us to things like this, could you say, to a more ecological electric or low-emission line, there will be quite a lot of trouble here, I suppose. In some ways I am surprised that we are trying to bite too big a cake at a time when the technology or distribution network is not yet functioning enough. In fact, it is stated that ‘e-passengercars andsorts also require the use of functional sub-station infrastructure’. It is totally flawed at the moment, and the fast charging points, what is there, at least on the basis of the articles I have read, are still very expensive. So I understand this kind of electric car lust, what is behind this now, in this kind of growth center — there can be some kind of possibility of action. That South Ostrobothnia has an average of 47 kilometres of driving, and if you start driving to the central city of Kela or something else, somehow I can see that it is not going to work in any way financially within the driver's working hours. Now, if transportation takes a certain moment, there may be a small waiting period, it may be that nothing can be driven there on the spot. I don't think it's a good idea to rush into this. And likewise, if we were to build and operate biogas or gas cars, their distribution network is very incomplete at the moment too, let us say, above Tampere, but incomplete all over Finland. But these should allow technology to develop, and only after there is technology, a possible distribution network and so forth will we be more eager to promote them. To be patient with these things. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u204	Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u205	Madam President! According to Prime Minister Marin's Government Programme, transport emissions are to be halved by 2030 compared to 2005. In order to achieve this objective, a road map for fossil-free transport has also been prepared to support this. The aim is to promote emission reductions in transport by increasing the share of zero and low-emission vehicles in public procurement. At the same time, the requirements of the EU Directive on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles will also be implemented. In future, the Directive will set binding minimum shares for Member States in public procurement for zero and low-emission vehicles. The minimum percentages of zero-emission and low-emission vehicles would be divided between contracting entities for two different procurement periods between 2021 and 2030. Vehicle and transport services contracts falling within the scope of the law. The Act would cover, for example, vehicles and transport services purchased by municipalities and the state, such as school transport, waste collection, the purchase of local bus services and the transport of Kela. On the other hand, the law would not apply to long-distance buses or, for example, agricultural and forestry vehicles or two- and three-wheeled vehicles. This would exclude, for example, alarm vehicles, military vehicles and construction site vehicles. In addition, category M2 vehicles intended for wheelchair users should be exempted. As regards the consideration of regional differences in the procurement of local authorities, issues to be taken into account as special features relate, for example, to distances, financial capacity, access to charging points and the situation on the taxi market. Mr President! The EU and its Member States have committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions at EU level by at least 40% from 1990 levels by 2030 in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. In December 2020 at the European Council, the Heads agreed to tighten the 2030 emission reduction target from 40% to 55%. The minimum percentage targets for vehicles set by the Directive must be achieved in all three categories by number of items and not, for example, by performance. This important law is intended to enter into force from the beginning of August 2021, and the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency would oversee this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u206	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u207	Madam President! Municipalities and many public bodies are well aware of these changes, and many municipalities already have these acquisitions. In fact, waste management companies, energy companies and water supply companies in particular have already moved to quite a few companies since then into zero-emission vehicles. The latest public transport competitions have already taken account of this future. For example, in my home town of Joensuu, there was a long public transport competition based on emission restrictions, and 20 buses then became with the operator who won the competition; it had 20 electric buses. They did extremely well in price competition, which is that these emission requirements are not now automatically increasing prices as well and are not in a kind of municipal purse. It is clear that the distribution network has not yet developed, as has been said here, neither in terms of electricity nor biogas. The problems are especially in Eastern and Northern Finland and outside the large cities, and of course the government is now trying very hard, for example, to move forward through the recovery package. The same must also be said of the various modes of transport, and, as Mr Werner said earlier, the pace at which this traffic and fleet are adapted and modernised in accordance with this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u208	Congressman Kvarnström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u209	Mr President! This proposal aims to promote emission reductions in transport by increasing the share of zero and low-emission vehicles in public procurement, and this is important and good. The Committee on the Environment has already emphasised the important role of public procurement in promoting climate and environmental policy objectives over the last period and, in accordance with the Government Programme, we have committed ourselves to halving transport emissions by 2030. This is a small but important part of the big picture, and this proposal is one of the measures taken by the fossil-free road map. Of course, the various measures are interlinked and, from the point of view of this proposal, it is also very important that the charging infrastructure continues to develop. Purchasing costs will increase somewhat as a result of this change in law, but the consumption of fossil fuels will also decrease accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, in the Government's proposal for legislation on environmental and energy efficiency requirements for vehicle and transport services procurement, it is proposed to introduce a new law on environmental and energy efficiency requirements for vehicle and transport services procurement, which would replace the 2011 Act on the taking into account of the energy and environmental impact of vehicles in public procurement. Mr President! Every time legislation is drafted, the consultation is also taking place, and in the consultation, it has been hoped, for example, that, now that the debate on this biogas, biogas and biodiesel has taken place, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will be regarded as clean vehicles by law. Several opinions called for a slightly longer transitional period for this. Now that this referral debate is taking place, I hope that this will be taken into account. Some commentators called for the exclusion from the scope of the law of M2 vehicles intended for stretchers and wheelchair users. The proposals are perhaps not taken into account in this proposal, since the EU directive does not allow national room for manoeuvre in these, but it is also worth taking these into account. Good speeches have been made here. Representatives Mäenpää and Eskelinen pointed out this biogas and the current distribution network for biogas. I would remind you that biogas and biogas cars will be an opportunity in the future, because this distribution network will expand in line with existing decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u211	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for this referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. The conversation is about to begin. — Minister Harakka is still gone, which means Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u212	Värderade Talman! Lagpaket innehåller flera ändringar, men jag vill speciellt lyfta fram de ändringar som berör miliöskyddslagen för sjöfart och att verkstä EU:s reviderade fartygsavfallsdirectiveiv. Målet med propositionen och bakomliggande EU-directiveiv är bra. Man strävar effectatt undvika att avfall från fartyg hamnar i havet och därmed förebygga förorening och nedskräpning av have samt skador som det medför för den marina milön och älsan. Hos oss rai i Finland är det raj ett lagförslag som beaktar Skärgårdshavets och skärgårdens känsliga natur. Enligt directives ska hamnar kunna ta estrot den typ av av avfall och den mängd avfall som uppstår i de fartyg som normalt besöker hamnarna. Vissa undantag föreslås till denna regel, där småskalighet är en. Tidigare har gränsen gått vid 50 båtplatser. Nu föreslås att småbåtshamnar med minst 25 båtplatser och vinterförvaringsplatser omfattas av bestammelsen. Focus ligger alltså på den typ av avfall som genereras på fartygen. Det är till en viss del också motives. Varför vinterförvaringsplatser är en avgörande factor för bestammelserna om sophantering kan daremot ifrågasättas. Vintertid brukar båtarna ligga under presenningar eller upplyfta på oliika ställningar inne i båthallar, och det brode inte egentligen i det skdet ens produceras så mycket Skräp. Att då företagarna åläggs orimliga krav om sophantering för båtar som inte ens används under största delen av året måste ifrågasättas. Vi är säkert under överens om att marint skräp är ett problemm och att åtgärder är nödvändiga för att förebygga nedskräpning. Med tillräckliga och lättillgängliga sophanteringar i hamnarna finns det större chans att Skräpet hamnar där det ska i tillet för i naturenen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u213	Madam President! The purpose of the present law is to extend the obligation to receive waste for recreational craft and to introduce clarifications on commercial shipping. The obligation to accept waste and the costs to be borne by users ensure that no economic justification is created for disposing of waste in the natural environment. This principle is also used, for example, in real estate. Our generation's task is to protect the Baltic Sea and also to keep inland waters clean for future generations. The proposed regulation will reduce the littering of the Baltic Sea and Finland's inland waters, as well as the release of plastics and nutrients into water bodies. There is a commitment to the protection of the Baltic Sea in the Government Programme, and inland waters are at least equally sensitive to littering and other environmental hazards, and so there is every reason to protect them. The aim of the proposal is to improve the reception of waste in ports. I don't think anyone's gonna object to this. This proposal would implement the EU's revised Ship Waste Directive, and these proposed changes concern, above all, recreational marinas, fishing ports and ports operated by connecting vessels and water buses. The key change is that the obligation to receive ship waste on the coast and inland waterways would be extended to recreational marinas with 25-49 seats. This government proposal is very welcome for our generation, but above all for the future generation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u214	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u215	Madam President! An important government proposal to amend the Maritime Environmental Protection Act and certain other laws. The legislation now clarifies the obligations of ports and the provisions on waste collection. It's an important and good thing. Marine pollution is a major global problem, and it is generally good for us to intervene in Finland as well. President! Let me remind you that fishing and boating and other activities in the waters are an important part of Finnish culture and must be possible for future generations as well. We should now use our water bodies in such a way that future generations can also enjoy them fully. It is sustainable development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u216	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 9/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — The debate begins, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u217	Madam President! The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is favourable. The presentation is considered necessary and appropriate, as one might have anticipated in advance. Firstly, this bill on elections is important. Democracy, freedom of expression, civic engagement are always important issues, and it is also important to promote them at an exceptional time, or is particularly important at an exceptional time. The proposal is temporary, but these experiences can and will be used when the Ministry of Justice will consider the possibility for military personnel to vote in future. From schedule: This is done on a fast-track basis, with around 20 municipalities affected and opinions received from the municipalities. Some municipalities have suggested that this should not be a binding, only enabling arrangement, so that the garrison can vote in this way, but I would see otherwise, so that it would be a little problematic if there were different arrangements for different garrisons in different municipalities, and it does not go so well in this law, but everyone has the same law and the same rights and opportunities. To allow the garrison to vote: It is important for young people to learn to vote. The second option is not being able to vote, not learning to vote, and then there will be a permanent pattern of behaviour. With regard to this bill, the government deserves praise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u218	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u219	Madam President! I recently received a message from a mother who had discussed voting with her son. They felt it was an important fundamental right. Mother wrote this: ‘At this time, we are performing our military service,and we are worried about him,there will be an opportunity to vote,which will be closed on both the day of the This bill is a direct answer to this mother and son’s wish. It is wonderful that young people want to exercise their right to vote and feel that it is important. According to the Constitution, it is the task of the public authorities to promote the individual’s ability to participate in social activities and to influence his/her decision-making. The electoral law is now being amended so that institutional voting is carried out in municipal elections in the garrison of the Defence Forces garrison and in the Border Guard garrison training units. This amendment of the law will ensure that the military can vote in a health-proof manner during the abnormal arrangements of the corona period. The proposal concerns approximately 15,000 persons entitled to vote for military service. The figure also includes the proportion of women who perform voluntary service. There's about 700 of them. The proposal as a whole is necessary and appropriate. According to the Constitution, every Finnish citizen and every foreign citizen residing permanently in the country who has turned 18 has the right to vote in municipal elections and municipal referendums according to the law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered the objective of the draft law to be acceptable. In committee, we considered it important that municipal elections be held in a secure manner and that all those entitled to vote should be able to exercise their right to vote. Those in the military service are in a special position when doing the service. However, no one can be told to exercise their right to vote. Nor is the amendment of the law problematic in relation to international obligations. In the past, the Constitutional Committee called on the Government to examine, for example, the suitability of the special measures adopted by the Venice Commission last May in order to organise the municipal elections in Finland. The proposal is consistent with the principles of the Venice Commission report on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposes that the draft law contained in the government proposal be adopted unchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u220	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 3/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — The general debate begins, Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u221	Mr President! The proposal contains three clarifications to the legal basis for the municipal trial that has already started: First of all, the proposal would allow an unemployed person selected for a municipal trial to be transferred to another pilot body and back to a customer of the TE Office in certain situations. The committee supports the proposal and notes that it is in line with the mandate of the statement adopted recently by Parliament. Secondly, the proposal transfers the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) to pilot municipalities to the preparation of employment policy opinions with at most limited consideration. The committee supports the proposal and notes that the proposal is in line with the mandate of the statement adopted recently by Parliament. This change reduces unemployment security bureaucracy and is thus likely to ensure that unemployment benefits are paid without delay. The Committee also notes that any additional resources needs for municipalities must be taken into account in the Nordic Employment Service model in 22. Thirdly, access rights to Career and TYP customer information systems will be extended in some respects. The committee is also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u222	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-04-ps-50.u223	Madam President! I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his good work and the committee as a whole for a good proposal and to take the floor a little while last Thursday, when Mr Halla-aho, whom I appreciated at Yle’s A-studio, used the phrase: ‘The Finnish birthplaces of new jobs are being rotated by means of the escorts,that the tracing of paper is changed. “ At this point I would like to comment on this now, when I think this is the right place to comment on this, that if Mr Halla-aho has said that there will be no new jobs in Finland by running papers or changing the location of the spinning of paper, then I think it is quite an old idea: about 15 years are behind in time when the papers are being rolled in the TE administration. After all, today it is done by means of digital tools alone. Madam President! I would like to point out that the fact that these municipal employment services run only papers is not true, because employment services are also actively looking for hidden jobs in companies. For example, we in Kuhmo currently have this kind of Life-Sampo ELSA project going on. The expertise of project participants will be developed there. The old or incomplete skills of a job seeker are often the reason why a person seeking employment is not necessarily employed in companies. More than one third of the project participants in this project were employed in paid employment enterprises within a few months. Now this is the latest information that some 120 project participants employed 45 people in companies a few weeks ago. In other words, I find it rather demeaning to say that these tests of employment in municipalities are merely a trick job or the running of papers. That's not what this is about. I would like to thank the committee for its good work, and I am glad that this experiment in the municipalities of employment is progressing, because this is really important for the long-term unemployed to get to work, and that is the best thing. - Thank you.
