ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 6/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 May 2021. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u2	Madam President! I propose that the article be changed to the form in which it appears in objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u3	Madam President! I support Mr Satonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u4	Mr President! I will make representations in line with the protests of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u5	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Mäkyse.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u6	Mr Satosen's proposal is put to the vote against Mr Mäkynen's proposal and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u7	Madam President! I have a motion for amendment to paragraph 2 of the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u8	Madam President! I support Mr Satonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u9	Madam President! I will make representations in line with the protests of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u10	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Mäkyse.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u11	Mr Satosen's proposal is put to the vote against Mr Mäkynen's proposal and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u12	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 May 2021. With the support of Mia Laiho Ruut Sjöblom, she has tabled an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u13	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u14	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 May 2021. a proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u15	Finally, we must vote on the proposals for statements made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u16	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Finance must deliver an opinion. Following a presentation by Minister of Transport and Communications Timo Haraka, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of five minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed five minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take no longer than five minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. A maximum of two hours shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u17	Mr President! History: The Government has presented the first national transport system plan as a report to Parliament. The plan has been prepared in a parliamentary manner in a good spirit. I would like to express my warm thanks immediately for the exceptionally valuable cooperation with all the parties involved and for the important contributions they have made. This is our common expression of the will for the future. The national transport system plan is a continuum for good parliamentary cooperation in recent years. It started with the treatment of the transport network repair debt and progressed through the financing and sustainability objectives of the transport network towards this long-term and comprehensive transport system plan. The national transport system plan, Transport 12, is a strategic programme for the development of the entire transport system. It is a compass that guides us in a changing and partly unknown terrain in the right direction. The preparation of the plan is based on a law on the transport system and roads, and the strategy will be drawn up every four years for 12 years. Of course, customers and regional operators of the transport system have been consulted in drawing up the plan. Mr President! Three key objectives were identified: increasing accessibility, sustainability and efficiency. Accessibility means that the transport system ensures accessibility for the whole of Finland and responds to the needs of industries, employment and housing. Sustainability means that people in urban areas in particular have better opportunities to choose sustainable forms of mobility. Not all the climate policies in transport were addressed in this work, but focused specifically on the dimensions of the transport system. The climate guidelines can be found in the road map of fossil-free traffic, which already meets the objectives set during the previous Government term. And thirdly, the transport system must be socio-economically efficient in order to use limited resources in a smart, systematic and timely manner. Mr President! This first Plan for Transport 12 is therefore historic. What it brings, how it affects the change of the country and the world for this decade and a little more than that, three lifts. First of all, the plan brings the long-term drive needed to develop the entire transport system. This is what many users have been waiting for and longing for. The state of the state has now been condensed into one deck. The state wants to be an predictable, reliable and systematic partner and servant of the common good. The plan is therefore the most important strategic document for the development of the transport network and the entire transport system. It will guide the level of funding, weightings and criteria used to develop the whole. Second of all: Planning will provide a better basis for decision-making on the transport system. During the preparatory work, a unique set of data on the current state of the transport network and development needs has been gathered, and this information will be utilised, expanded and deepened during implementation. Thirdly, joint action will be strengthened. The content of the plan has been the subject of genuine interaction in a wide range of forums. This approach needs to be further developed in partnership with stakeholders. Madam President! The plan is broad, but I will highlight the main expressions of the will of society on the substance. The most important thing is that we commit ourselves together to the condition of our country's roads, railways and waterways. We also aim for endurance in a word, so that the routes are in the condition that they are able to withstand use. Our common will is to increase the level of funding for basic infrastructure management. After years of neglect, we turn the correction debt down on all routes throughout Finland. The relative share of railway maintenance in funding is growing slightly, but the main focus is still on road maintenance. The share of the road network in basic infrastructure management remains higher than in the network, and maintenance funding for the road network is also increasing. We also want to reduce the debt of repairing our transport network with the lower road network, which is important for industrial transport. In terms of accessibility for the whole of Finland, the fairway network is of great importance. In addition, we are reforming policies to make more effective use of EU funding. According to the National Transport System Plan, the CEF instrument will be fully utilised in the implementation of the Transport 12 targets also in the new funding period that will start shortly. With regard to the development and construction of the transport network, it is our will and duty to identify the main needs and implement projects effectively, respecting taxpayers' money, listening to users of the transport system — respecting the payer, listening to the user. The Agency is responsible for the strategic picture of the transport network, which can be derived from the development needs of both the state and other actors, depending on the urgency and necessity of the network. This will ensure that the implementation of the plan is based on a common knowledge base, which in turn is a prerequisite for achieving the purpose as we wish. Sustainable transport will be promoted together with municipalities, for example through the development of public transport systems and travel chains. This is an environmental issue, but even more a matter of equality: everyone has the right to move. The utilisation of digitalisation and data are also key elements in the plan. We implement the Digirata project and create new conditions for digital business. The State will continue to be responsible for the financing of state routes. Our goal is that in the future we will be able to carry out more large transport projects that will benefit many people. I hope that my legacy is that close and good cooperation between the state and regional actors is the basic model of action. That is how we have put in place two major rail projects, and that is where the third one is. That is how we have solved the air transport challenges of five cities. In this way, we are committed to the common objectives and principles of joint funding in the MAL agreements for large urban areas and even for new cities, which have also been highlighted in the plan. Mr President! The first national transport system plan will map the route we will follow until the end of the decade and beyond. Implementation of the plan is progressing in the transport sector in line with the existing division of labour. The Ministry has its own role and the Finnish Fairway Agency, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency and the Ely Centres each have their own roles. Implementation also depends heavily on funding. The plan includes a State financing programme, the implementation of which will depend on future budgetary decisions. The cut of EUR 110 million for the transport sector will be decided in the context of the next framework. This decision will, of course, be taken into account when it comes to implementing the plan. Parliament's views on the content of the plan will be carefully taken into account in the implementation of the plan. In 12 years, the landscapes change several times, but the direction remains.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u18	We shall now move on to the group statements — and Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u19	Madam President! Now we finally have a long-awaited Government report on the national transport system plan for 2021 to 2032, which is the first of its kind in Finland. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Harakka for completing this great work and bringing the report to the House. At the same time, I would like to thank all the members of the parliamentary steering group and others involved in the preparations for constructive and responsible cooperation during the process in order to establish common guidelines. It is great that all parliamentary parties have had a strong common will for the long-term development of the Finnish transport system. We in the SDP have long missed such a plan and strongly contributed to the fact that we are dealing with this report here today. The development of the Transport 12 plan can therefore be seen as the most important transport policy action of this term of government. Major reforms are proceeding under the leadership of the SDP. Now we're really making history. Mr President! The report is a strategic plan for the long-term development of the transport system. It takes into account Finland as a whole, with all its regions and modes of transport. The plan and knowledge-based decision-making enable more efficient use of resources. At the same time, they bring predictability to business and regional development and pave the way for better use of EU funding. Transport 12 is a steering report, which is to be reviewed and updated every government term. Although the report has now been given to us in Parliament, it lives in time. One time and one program can't put everything in order. The most important part of the plan is that we now have common criteria for how things will be prepared and what will be prioritised. Mr President! One of the most important and key guidelines for the SDP in the Transport 12 plan is the permanent raising of funding for basic infrastructure management. According to the plan, the annual level of funding for basic infrastructure management would be around EUR 1.4 billion from 2025. In the management and repair of all forms of transport, general increases in the cost level will also be taken into account from 2025 onwards. We are all aware of the huge repair debt of the Finnish fairway network. Now we have a view of how to reverse the correction debt and how to prevent it from building up in the future. In order to reduce the debt of correction, we Social Democrats will not compromise. Caring for the fairway network is also important for the climate. When the roads are in order, the emissions from traffic will be lower. The climate objectives are also supported by the improvement and development of the existing network and by major planned rail projects that create the conditions for increasing the share and competitiveness of rail transport. These are important objectives for the SDP. However, the main reason for taking care of the routes is road safety. We must do everything we can to ensure that road deaths and serious road accidents are put to zero in the future. Here, too, the fairway network has a major role to play. Mr President! A lot of expectations have been loaded into Plan 12 on the ground among the various actors involved. However, it is obvious that we cannot give answers to all the questions at once. The current situation in the transport system, the strategic guidelines for its development and the need for further clarification have now been fully identified. A new road safety strategy is already under preparation. In addition, the plan has identified the need to explore, for example, the possibilities for improving logistics chains and reducing emissions. As part of this work, the possibilities of transferring transport from roads to inland waterways, e.g. in the Saimaa region will be explored in cooperation with key actors. Mr President! The Committee on Transport and Communications has already dealt with this report in advance and the consultations are well under way. This debate is taking place at an excellent time, because we still have the opportunity to take account of the debates that arise in this debate in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u20	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u21	Mr President! First of all, we must thank Minister Harakka for having very well sought a compromise even in difficult situations when there are major political differences in some areas, or at least some sort of one. Mr President! The objective of the first 12-year national transport system plan is to increase the long-term development of the transport system throughout Finland. The plan is based on a law adopted during the last parliamentary term. It covers all modes of transport and has been developed in an interactive manner with stakeholders. The preparatory work has been carried out by the parliamentary steering group. The implementation of the plan and the achievement of the objectives will be actively monitored. Mr President! The smoothness, speed and safety of traffic are in the interests of Finland as a whole. We consider it particularly important that the national plan strengthens the competitiveness of our industries and the vitality and accessibility of our regions. Today, the poor condition and lack of connections are causing millions of hours of time loss for both people and businesses. The financial losses resulting from this must be reduced by a sensible investment and development policy for transport. Although all modes of transport are important, we stress the need to increase the share of the road network. The correction debt should be reduced by the whole network of fairways, including the lower road network. Finland has lost billions of EU funding due to loose lobbying. Now, hopefully, the plan will allow EU funding for major major road and rail projects. At the same time, central government funds will be released for destinations and maintenance in the lower classes. EU CEF funding should be applied more actively to both main road and rail projects. Mr President! In the steering group, the Finns did not accept the entries that, on the basis of the fossil road map, would have given a positive signal to increase taxes and charges on rubber cycle traffic. Neither did we accept the government's plans for road and congestion charges. We do not agree to send an intense fall in climate policy to private motorists or to our companies. We also rejected the fact that the government would shift the costs of road projects to the municipalities. The overall level of funding for transport is not in proportion to its taxes. Eight billion taxes will be collected, and about two billion of them will then be spent on these projects. The plan included the goal of raising transport funding to a level equivalent to one per cent of Finland’s annual gross domestic product. This represents an increase of almost half a billion euros compared to the current level. Mr President! The entire transport network must be maintained from private roads to highways, as well as tracks and air connections to the regions. The Finnish Parliament Group will later assess the necessity and rationality of large railway projects with a total price of up to EUR 10 to 15 billion. Ports and international connections are essential. In promoting public transport and cycling, we are realists. Telecommunications and digitalisation also require investments. The transport system must serve both the grandmother of Pihtiputta, the Liquorice Factory in Kouvola and the huge bioproduct factory that Kem will produce. The whole of Finland must be considered as a resident. Mr President! Finally, we Finns of Finland emphasise the aspect of road safety in planning. Traffic still requires too many victims and injuries. We want to invest in security. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u22	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u23	Mr President! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to thank Minister Harakka and all the parliamentary groups for their parliamentary cooperation, which enabled us to build on Finland's first 12-year national transport system plan. Working together and finding an understanding is a value in itself. Thanks to this process, all parliamentary groups now have a similar picture of the economic challenges of basic infrastructure management and development projects. Money is missing, so to speak, from the machine and a lot of it. That is an honest statement from the outset. That is why we must invest together in employment and in improving Finland's industrial competitiveness in order to get out of the chronic deficit cycle. Mr President! The Coalition Party considers it important that the big lines of transport policy do not coddle from one season to the next. In a rapidly changing world, long-term goals are needed, with which we can commit ourselves widely across party boundaries. A well-functioning transport infrastructure with international connections is of paramount importance for the competitiveness of businesses. It is clear from almost all surveys conducted for businesses and industry. International investors also constantly signal that the main criteria for being located in Finland are predictability, reliable functioning of administration and good transport and telecommunications infrastructure. It is clear that the existing road and rail network is a Finnish vascular system that needs to be taken good care of. Mr President! Parliamentary work on transport matters in Finland is beginning to be a tradition that began a couple of parliamentary years ago in the form of a corrective debt working group. This working group highlighted the debt of almost EUR 2 and a half billion for the renovation of basic bus maintenance and called for fair additional funding. Since then, funding for basic transport infrastructure management has been increased by nearly EUR 400 million. The repair debt of our fairway network is currently around EUR 2.8 billion. It is to be reduced to EUR 2.2 billion in the next 12 years. In particular, funding will be transferred to the network, as its repair needs will be considerable in the coming years. There was agreement within the parliamentary working group that basic infrastructure management would be financed at EUR 1.4 billion per year. The Assembly's parliamentary group hopes that the reduction in basic bus maintenance appropriations for the years 23 and 24 of this report will be reduced in some way, as messages from heavy traffic professionals in particular indicate that the road is in very poor condition. Mr President! High-speed transport connections are particularly important in international business activities. Therefore, the easy accessibility of Finland and its regions will continue to be an important competitive factor in the future. The Coalition Party's parliamentary group considers the maintenance of regional flights to be of paramount importance, also because good flight connections from Helsinki Airport to the world are maintained from all parts of Finland. In this context, it should be pointed out that large, high-speed rail projects — the main railway line, the Turku-hour train and the east rail line — are not included in the content of this report in economic terms. It seems strongly that teleworking and multi-spatiality support the development of high-speed rail and telecommunications connections at national level. In the opinion of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, in particular, longer train journeys should improve the conditions for working with desks and better communication connections. Mr President! Transport taxation is harsh in Finland. In the form of car tax, vehicle tax and fuel tax, more than EUR 6 billion are collected from motorists per year, taking VAT into account. With all traffic, the tax burden will rise by more than 8 billion in a normal year. In the opinion of the Coalition Party's parliamentary group, the cost of driving should not be forced to maintain as emissions decrease with the use of renewable cars and new propulsion solutions. The talk of increasing fuel tax and congestion charges is inappropriate at the time. They reduce the conditions for doing work and moving. For many, a car is a necessity, and even in the capital region it is impossible to work without one’s own car. Let's cut the emissions, not the car. The Coalition Party also believes that road safety will improve as the car fleet is replaced more quickly. Mr President! There are major challenges facing the achievement of the objectives of the Government report. The government's social welfare reform threatens to dramatically weaken the municipalities' ability to generate income when a significant part of the tax revenue is transferred to the established provinces. The Coalition Party fears that this will substantially undermine the ability of cities and municipalities to invest in the road network due to the overly heavy local government-state financial ratio for municipalities. Many very sensible projects in the region can be left unfunded, because many municipalities’ ability to invest will collapse as a result of the reform. Overall, this first report is a good start to a long-term transport policy with all stakeholders, including businesses and municipalities, being strongly involved. This is a good place to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u24	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u25	Mr President! The Transport 12 report is a milestone in Finnish transport planning. It is the first time that all parliamentary parties agree together on a transport system plan that takes all modes of transport into account for the long-term. The report provides a good basis for further work. The plan is also broadly in line with the objectives of the Centre. Transport routes are national property that must be maintained. A safe school trip, smooth connections to workplaces and leisure sites, the needs of the business community and security of supply all require an absolutely functional and well-functioning network of fairways throughout the country. A passenger car is a necessary means of transport for a large number of Finns, as public transport operates smoothly only in our major cities. Safe movement requires proper roads. A good road is also a climate action, for fuel consumption, for example, is falling on well-surfaced roads. Good basic infrastructure management also through the lower tier road network is necessary for residents of municipalities and cities, businesses, cottages, goods transport and primary production from agriculture to wood maintenance. A road network of all degrees, not forgetting, of course, the routes of light traffic, needs good maintenance and maintenance throughout Finland and especially during all seasons. The city centre is not in favour of congestion charges, but we are in favour of well-functioning public transport. Mr President! In the Centre's view, when planning new, major road and rail projects, it is essential to find out how projects can be funded from the European Union. Although the main focus of traffic is still on roads and driving, there will be more and more people and goods on the rails. In the view of the Centre, the renovation of the existing rail network is necessary and urgent, while speeding up and planning new, large-scale rail projects. In addition to roads and railways, we need our existing airports and our ports, maritime transport and inland waterway transport for mobility, trade and goods transport. The city centre requires that our airport network is sufficiently dense. In addition to the important Helsinki Airport, we need a comprehensive regional network for the mobility of citizens and for the needs of business and tourism. Mr President! The city centre, the domestic one, is in favour of increasing telework and multi-spatiality. They will not be possible without a functioning road and telecommunications network: we need stable fibre optics and a comprehensive mobile network. The road map for fossil-free transport must achieve emission targets without increasing the costs of motorists. There are many different ways to do this. You can say briefly: more domestic for the tank. Let us say the centre's position on the fuel tax: this government will no longer increase the fuel tax. According to the Centre Party, Finnish residents deserve better and safe transport routes and, in particular, transport routes in the country's longitudinal and transversal directions. Mr President! On behalf of the Central Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank Minister Haraka and all the other parties involved in the Transport 12 report. It's good to continue along this road.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u26	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u27	Mr President! A sustainable transport system for the future will be built from a wide range of mobility options, as the same solution is not suitable everywhere. In cities it is best to travel in public, walking or cycling, and longer trips are the most convenient way to travel by train. Electricity and biogas cars are needed in sub-regions and rural areas. Transport generates about one fifth of Finland's total emissions, which is why Finland has set an ambitious target of halving them by 2030. This goal is a decisive milestone on our way to the world's first carbon-neutral welfare state. The efficiency of the transport system is not enough to achieve the objective alone, but it is an important part of the whole. The Greens’ starting point has been clear throughout the Transport 12 work: the objectives of the transport system and plan must go hand in hand with the road map for fossil-free transport and the reform of taxes and charges for sustainable transport. That is the only way we can achieve the desired result. Mr President! Transport sustainability, energy efficiency and accessibility of regions — these are the main objectives we defined in the steering group for this plan. They bind the development of the transport system across party boundaries and over parliamentary term. These are the objectives that we are committed to together in parliamentary work. Social and territorial justice are the starting points for fair change, which has also been taken into account in the planning of the transport system, and this must continue to be the case. In addition to climate change, we must actively combat transport poverty. People must be able to move to the services within a reasonable time, with reasonable effort and cost, regardless of the income level or postal code. Mr President! The Transport 12 plan brings the long-term drive needed for Finnish transport policy. We Greens want more and more Finns to be able to choose a train as their means of transport instead of more polluting alternatives. Workable and well-served rail transport is therefore a key element of a sustainable transport system. The share of journeys on trains and trams must be increased with determination. Investments that take traffic volumes into account are needed to make rail connections better and more accessible. Investments must be designed in a long-term way and the total costs and benefits they bring must be assessed. The debt of correction must not be allowed to grow too high. Decisions on the construction of projects in the future will be decided not only within the framework of the financial framework but also in the light of the objectives of the transport system plan. Mr President! The sectoral emission reduction targets were decided for the first time at the climate conference at the beginning of the Government term in Vuosaari, and the first measures of the fossil-free road map are already under way. Many would like to go more sustainably, but it is not for everyone or everywhere — yet. The dialogue has made it clear that there are different opportunities for different sectors of activity, but there is a will. The future transport system aims to address these challenges. It is quite clear that our transport system can no longer rely on fossil fuels in the 2030s. We must not only electrify transport in a sustainable way but also increase the share of bio-based fuels in transport. From a natural or climate point of view, it does not matter how and where biofuels for transport are produced: whether virgin biomass is used for production or whether we are talking about, for example, fourth generation carbon neutral biofuels and circular economy. Differences in the carbon footprint and ecology of fuels can be very large. Mr President! In addition to the benefits of developing the transport system for individual citizens and the climate, the efficiency of the system is also key to Finland’s competitiveness and the vitality of the regions. The availability of skilled labour and the cost-effective movement of goods are crucial to the export-driven Finnish economy. We warmly support the objectives of the national transport system plan in the Green Parliamentary Group and, as a member of the steering group, I would like to thank you for the good cooperation and interactive preparation along the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u28	Mr President! Traffic is an enabler. Traffic is the cornerstone of all our activities. Without accessibility, the vitality of our regions would begin to fade. Effective transport creates employment and social justice. Important climate and environmental solutions are also relevant to transport. The historic Transport 12 plan is finally coming to an end. The objective of the plan, which will allow the long-term development of the Finnish transport system on land, sea, inland waterways and air, has lived for years. The 12-year transport system plan has been prepared by parliamentary cooperation between all parliamentary parties. It is positive that together we have been able to build a long-term entity. For this, thank you to all those who took part in the work and, in particular, to Minister Haraka. Mr President! A well-designed transport system is the life force structure of Finland as a whole. We need good connections to secure the constitutional right to choose our own place of residence. We need good links to safeguard the economy and strengthen employment and make it possible to use sensible areas. The additional permanent basic bus maintenance euros indicated in the plan are used to repair basic transport infrastructure and to maintain roads around Finland. Transport 12 is helping to lead the way towards climate-friendly mobility. The plan will put more emphasis on rail funding. This is a big and important step forward. In addition to its low emissions, rail transport is not only socially accessible but also accessible. Rail transport is the future. Mr President! A permanent increase in the funding of basic transport infrastructure management will benefit the professional driver, the ordinary citizen and also the climate. In good condition, the road network reduces fuel consumption and is thus also a climate action. We are finally going to catch up for decades on the accumulated bus maintenance repair debt, which is responsible and sensible for both climate and industrial policy. The Transport 12 plan also offers better opportunities to participate in EU funding applications. Finland is part of Europe and the rest of the world as a transport link, so important maritime connections with ports and air links with airports are also the core of our transport system, logistics chain and security of supply, along with road and rail transport. We believe it is important that road safety is also included in the package. In addition to saving lives and injuries, road safety is of great economic importance. Let's talk about billions if and when we can significantly reduce traffic accidents. Mr President! By developing the transport system and services, we look to the future. It is possible to use resources smarter than at present and not always need extensive new construction. We have long had the impression that building an additional infrastructure is the answer to everything. With the Transport 12 plan, we will move towards the future, thinking about what the existing infrastructure could do. How can we better control growing traffic flows? How can we influence people’s choice of ways of walking? How can we influence traffic behaviour? What impact will the increase in distance work have on the transport system? New thinking is welcome, both for the environment and for the tax euro. Mr President! We never know what the future holds, and that is why the transport system must also be prepared to react quickly. It is therefore important that the implementation of the plan is regularly monitored and updated. The agreement and co-operation in drawing up the plan give faith in the ability to co-operate. I hope that all parliamentary groups will keep an eye on the adequacy of transport funding, including in possible adjustments. Together, we will ensure that, through good connections, we keep the whole of Finland safe and vibrant, reduce emissions and enable more smooth working and leisure traffic for all and not for a few people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u29	Representative Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u30	Irade the Talman! Den riksomfattande trafikplanen är ett långsiktigt document, och ett stort tag till minister Harakka och alla partier för ett gott samarbete. Det är arv vi slår fast vad som behövs för att utveckla landsets infrastruktur i fråga om vägar, jänvägar, flyg, hamnar och sjöfart. Den au redogörelsen är viktig, för den har direkta beröringspunkter med de allra flesta manniskors vardag. Vi är alla beroende av goda förbindelser och därför är det viktigt att vi har en parliamentarisk samsyn. SFP och svenska ricksdagsgruppen backar fullt upp de samhälleliga målen för utvecklingen av trafiksystemet, som alla avser ämpa klimatförändringen. Det handlar om tillgänglighet — trafiksystemet garanterar tillgänglighet i hela Finland. Det handlar om hållbarhet, det ska bli lättare för medborgarna att läja hållbarare alternativ, i synnerhet i stadsregioner. Och det handlar om effektivitet, trafiksystemets samhällsekonomiska effektivitet förbättras.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u31	Madam President! The parliamentary preparation of the transport system plan deserves praise. The work of the group led by Minister Haraka was good-spirited and the views of all parliamentary groups were listened to. The ideas of the opposition parties were also taken into account. Parliamentary cooperation is needed when talking about the long-term development and maintenance of the Finnish transport network. It is essential for the implementation of this programme, which is good and to be supported, to ensure that future parliaments and governments are committed to the good objectives set out here. Let me remind you: a well-designed one is completely undone. Mr President! The vitality of long distances and a sparsely populated country is based on people being able to move and on the ability of the business community to function properly. About 90 per cent of the goods are on rubber wheels, and about 80 per cent of our country’s foreign trade is by sea. We need a comprehensive port network, but we also need well-functioning inland connections. At present, these links are not at a sufficient level. The renovation debt of the Finnish transport network has increased to nearly EUR 3 billion. To remedy this situation, adequate funding and cross-party commitment are needed to maintain the transport network throughout the country. Transport 12 is an important document whose task is to direct the planning and financing of the transport system in a long-term and systematic manner, over several parliamentary periods. Together, we set an ambitious target of raising the financing of the transport system to about 1% of GDP. Transport 12 bridges the repair debt and improves the condition of the main routes, and the level of private road repair funding is also raised. Unfortunately, however, the budgetary plan cuts these financial frameworks that have just been agreed and the condition of the roads continues to deteriorate. This doesn't make sense. Refurbishment of roads would immediately result in jobs and tax revenues. Madam President! Transport 12 also contains major question marks. They relate to regional justice and the financing of new projects. The contractual co-financing provided for in the report will lead to the transfer of the State's responsibilities for financing the fairway to the municipalities, which we do not consider appropriate. This is not acceptable in terms of local government finances and equal treatment of municipalities. In this respect, it is necessary to re-evaluate the plan in the parliamentary and committee deliberations. The financial solutions outlined in the plan are subject to a narrowness. Sweden, for example, has chosen far more diversified financial instruments and has also made better use of the potential of EU funding. Is the government afraid of having a reputation in Brussels if we dare to ask for our share of EU funding for transport development? Furthermore, this plan does not take sufficient account of the importance of cross-border traffic. All roads go to Rome, let's say. In Finland, all roads seem to travel from regional central cities to large cities in the south. Not all Finns want to come to Helsinki, but we also need well-functioning traffic connections from the east to the west and from the west to the east. Madam President! There is much talk of new rail projects under Transport 12. Are all major rail projects still necessary in the post-column period when telework is becoming an integral part of working life? How sensible is it in economic terms to design solutions aimed at rebuilding and housing Finland in a few growth centres? Perhaps, Minister, the development of the digital highway is the most important project, both in terms of cost-effectiveness and in terms of reducing emissions. The road map for fossil-free traffic in the Marin government is problematic. It does not take account of changes in tax revenues due to the electrification of the car fleet, but continues to aim at maintaining tax revenues from motor vehicles at the same level, even though the public is implementing the government's wishes for low-emission mobility. This isn't fair. Finns act as the government wishes, and more taxes are paid. Dear ministers and good government, please visit the everyday life and mobility needs of the ordinary Finnish citizen. Or does the government consciously want to limit the freedom of movement of citizens by imposing excessive taxes on driving?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u32	Like this. — Before going to the debate, let us take the floor of Minister Haraka, for three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u33	Mr President! Thank you for your constructive comments. Indeed, almost all group speakers were restored as responsible members of the parliamentary steering group. After all, for a year and a half this work was carried out very closely. In this context, it should also be remembered to thank the Department of Transport and Communications, which has stretched to unprecedented performances. Well, there has been talk here, including Mr Laukkanen, at the end of this debate, about issues not covered by the Transport 12 programme. For example, with regard to these large rail projects, they are not part of the Transport 12 programme in so far as the decisions as to whether they are sensible to build and whether they are plans for which it is very demanding to finance will be decided separately. The dozens of municipalities who have successfully set out to plan this project for the future have firmly declared that they have not committed themselves to the decision to be taken separately, including the State. I don't quite recognize that we've had any kind of fights at these meetings of ours. Rather, I would like to emphasise the unity with which the development of transport was viewed across party boundaries. This parliamentary spirit is certainly the strength behind this programme. Representative Eestilä pointed out the budget for basic bus maintenance for the year 23 and its apparent reduction. Well, as early as the government program, it was brought forward by 100 million to 22. Of course, it would be a good thing to be even, but it does happen to me that the additional investment of more than EUR 1 billion in basic bus maintenance during the term of the government will take place a little early. Yeah, that's fine. This increase in the level of basic bus maintenance agreed together is a good basis for the programmes and frameworks of the next and subsequent government. And, of course, it would be very pleasant if the parliamentary elections of 23 C.E. were to be conducted in such a way as to compete for which party wants best to invest in breaking the debt of correction. Several comments stressed the importance of tracks. It is easy to agree, for example, with the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party, that the attractiveness of trains as a mode of transport should be improved, for example, by developing workspaces. We are also looking for ways in which communications on trains would meet even the most demanding needs reliably. One of the temptations might be that employers would accept train work as working time if the conditions were met. So this initiative does not even need legal changes, so I ask which company and which companies that want to show social and environmental responsibility would catch up. I shall wait for further constructive speeches. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u34	And now I would ask those Members who wish to use the reply to the debate to stand up and press the V button. — and Mr Pierainen will speak first.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u35	Madam President! This just came out of nowhere like the former Prime Minister, [ The speaker laughs]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u36	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u37	Mr President! Finland is a special environment for transport system planning. You have done a good job of it — it is a rather challenging structure. However, we are a large and sparsely populated country, and remote location and weather conditions pose their own challenges. It is absolutely important for people's mobility, business and international competitiveness that the transport network is able to serve and operate as well as possible. The interfaces between the state and municipal bus networks and an effective plan are essential. In recent history, however, we have seen that municipalities are obliged to participate strongly in rail and road projects, for example, and that would appear to be the case in the future. How do you, Minister, see whether participation in joint projects will continue to be compulsory for municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u38	Congressman Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u39	Mr President! First of all, thank you for your good cooperation in drawing up the Transport 12 plan. One important objective here as a whole is accessibility, and it is very important that this work has now highlighted the functioning of the main bus network and the correction of the repair debt in the car transport sector, on the one hand, railing, fast rail connections in Finland. I hope that EU funding will now be applied for on the main track as well. But as a third dimension, I would also like to highlight air traffic now, especially when rising from the corona. It is good that we have Helsinki Airport and its international position strongly here, but we also remember the international role of these other fields. This is about the county fields. I would draw attention to the fields of these large urban areas in the sense that they serve as such destinies on the world map and serve the regional economy and vitality of these regions. The Nordic countries have a total of 17 more than one million passengers
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u40	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u41	Thank you, Mr President. And thank the Minister and all the parties for doing this parliamentary work. This seems to me to be a very good basis for further work on Finnish transport policy for the better. I would like to highlight three points: In my opinion, it is essential to keep these extensive connections in order, i.e. from the internal capital region to the regions, from the provinces to the world, and in this period of time, of course, the challenges have been brought about by reduced air transport above all. But then there is, above all, these road connections within the provinces, so that both the lower road network and the slightly better roads remain in good condition, so that the accessibility in the province remains at a high level. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see whether this 12-year plan now offers opportunities for future funding from the European Union to be better available than it has so far been available for both road and rail projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u42	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u43	Mr President! It is important that the reduction of emissions and sustainable transport are taken as a key starting point for the 12-year transport system plan. In addition to the road map for fossil-free transport and the tax and payment reform for sustainable transport, this is an important tool for achieving climate objectives. It is important that we recognise the role of the state in financing major urban rail investments. I am concerned that the funding of large public transport projects in urban areas is being transferred more to the cities. Railway projects contribute to strengthening the vitality of cities, but their land-use revenues are urgently needed to finance urban growth. For that, I would like to thank the plan for providing for revitalising support for public transport, so that the use of public transport can be restored to the pre-emergence growth path and that it does not need to be undermined. Finally, I would like to thank you for your efforts to promote cycling. It is important that local authorities continue to invest in support of bicycle road projects and that:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u44	Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u45	Thank you, Madam President. What is of interest to us at the moment is that when we talk about environmental friendliness and the condition of roads, did it consider the use of these existing inland waterways to reduce truck traffic in the group — and how much thought was given if thought was given to it? I guess it would be through those deep lanes. That's how you get the pressure off the roads. — That is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u46	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u47	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your good group speeches. When you listened to them in the study, if you compare them with the EU's recovery tools and economic discussions over the last few weeks, it was wonderful, it really enjoyed it, and it was nice to hear these thanks also in the direction of Minister Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u48	Madam President! Mr Harakka, we are going through these rail projects here in the throttle, those that are not financed here, which are financed in some other way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u51	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u52	Madam President! This government has raised the profile and importance of transport policy, and it is of course great from the perspective of Finland's growth and regional policy. The big investment decisions taken at the beginning of the Government's term have been important in terms of economic policy and employment, and last summer, for example, 4,000 kilometres of asphalt were drawn to the surface around Finland, and it will start to be seen. The mutual praise club has been here since then, and this is good, and thank you to Minister Haraka, but I would also like to point out that there have been quite a large number of back-up forces to do this, almost 300 statements and regional transport system work. It has played an important role, and it has been a cross-section from Finland, and I myself have been able to mirror for 20 years the work done on the different levels of transport system work in the regions. This was a great sparring, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u53	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u54	Mr President! When Minister Harakka is here, I will ask about this when, in April, it became clear that there were in particular these EU funding networks that Finland could have applied for, and the media had an interview with an EU parliamentarian about it, where he was deeply wondering why Finland had such opportunities, that it could have been able to refurbish, for example, the Tampere-Helsinki track. We should use it now that we are in the club and want to be there and pay billions to be there now, to take advantage of all the means and situations. I ask the Minister: why has Finland not applied, and has this been applied for? And when we are told here that we support cycling and cycling — good — then, for example, in my home town of Hyvinkää, we need and need a good, free-of-charge car park to ensure that the traffic in the workplace is smooth. Is there any government funding for free parking garages? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u55	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u56	Madam President! Thank you to the parliamentary working group for your work. Such a long-term plan is needed. However, I would like to make one wish and one more concern. The wish is for this road repair debt. Of course, it has been reduced all the time, but it is now known that heavy traffic in many places is in difficulty and at the same time business life is in difficulty. Similarly, private drivers are in trouble. I would like to see this raised further, because, fortunately, motoring is now becoming more environmentally friendly and safer in the near future, and this should be taken into account. There is a great deal of concern, as the Minister will probably be, about money and, therefore, about the cofinancing model, because now the proportion of municipalities in this area will increase even further. We know the difficult state of local government finances in the future, and especially if it is still being subjected to social reform, it will be disastrous. And here I am asking: there is no plan to make up for this financial deficit by means of congestion charges, tolls or similar means?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u57	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u58	Madam President! The government does not decide on congestion charges. The Government can adopt legislation allowing congestion charges, and the regions decide independently on congestion charges and tolls.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u61	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u62	Madam President! And, Minister, I would have liked that much clarification — although we are not talking here about these rail projects — mainly on this part of the budget, which will have to do with this: However, Väylä’s expert has said that efficiency score is too low for all these large railway projects. When I made sure of this, I did get the answer that it would not even be possible to get EU money for these things. Is this true?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u63	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u64	Mr President! Personally, I greatly appreciate the work that has been done together, because every Member of Parliament will probably want to invest in his own region. But perhaps it should be noted that these transport investments are not just for mobility. After all, they create faith in the future in the region, economic activity. It is terribly important that people across Finland feel that the government does not forget them. And transport investments, if any, are a tool for this very fact that people feel that they are not left out. Everyone knows what the result will be if some areas, as it were, are left aside and people feel that way — that experience is terribly important. In other words, the economy is, after all, an emotion and very far-reaching mental attitude and tuning state. But, Minister, in that working car, which you yourself raised: I would like to see one pilot workcar with desks and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u65	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u66	Madam President! In my opinion, the parliamentary Transport 12 working group was very rewarding. Thank you to Minister Haraka for its leadership and to all those present, as well as to the services and all those who made huge statements on this issue. It is a good thing that this matter was taken forward in cooperation. In fact, I would like to raise this level of funding, which was discussed. It is a good thing that this funding and the level of funding for basic transport infrastructure was specifically paid attention and also wanted to be increased. This funding for basic transport infrastructure management was increased during the last term of the government and it has been increased by EUR 300 million a year during this term of government, but it is significant that there is still a desire to increase it. And it is important that we close this correction debt. But, of course, here is also the fact that new
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u67	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u68	Madam President! Everyone here understands that public transport or muscle travel is not possible for everyone or everywhere. We must significantly and sustainably electrify transport and increase the share of bio-based fuels in transport. However, from the point of view of nature and the climate, it does not matter how and where transport fuels are produced. For biofuels, the circular economy comes into play when fuel is produced from waste and secondary streams in different sectors. The circular economy in the transport sector must also be encouraged. As Hämeenlinna main railway player, I would like to remind you once again of the study of Economic Research, which concluded that the development of the current main line is clearly better for the economy and vitality of the region than a new straight line in the middle of nowhere. Refurbishment of modern tracks and rapid improvement of transmission capacity are also the number one option in the direction of Savo-Karjala. The main line is quite unique in terms of traffic volumes, and that is why its planning should now proceed at a rapid pace.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u69	Let us take two more replies and then the Minister. — And now, Mr Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u70	Thank you, Madam President. There were some special speeches here, when all the tax debate was brought to this, and I think it was a bit of a mess, but I am glad that Mr Kymäläinen and Mrs Tornia came up with clear positions, at least on this fuel taxation. Personally, I think it is of the utmost importance that this kind of work has been accomplished and has long-term, but I would like to stress even more the condition of this lower road network. This has been well taken into account here, but it is extremely important for the competitiveness of industry in our regions in particular. It won't help if the main fairways are in order, but we'll have to get that stuff out of the woods. As I live on a forest road like this, I know that the roads will then suffer quite disproportionately. I hope that there will also be a great deal of investment in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u71	And now, Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u72	Madam President, thank you. And thank you to the Minister and colleagues from the parliamentary group who were involved in this work. It was very rewarding to be in this group, it was very important. Finally, this plan was completed, and I have not yet met anyone who would not see this as useful. It's really great and it's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u73	Mr President! Thank you very much for these interesting speeches. As I said, the Transport 12 programme is also a commitment of society to what can be expected of the state as a partner. And, as I said, this good cooperation has become stronger recently, and I want it to continue. I would like to assure you that it is always a question of voluntary action, of the initiative of the regions themselves and of common equal agreements. The aim is therefore to mobilise these projects which the regions want, not to increase the responsibilities of the municipalities. At the same time, we really need to create more models in which private investors can also come in to finance their own benefits. Perhaps in this context it is worth pointing out, in response to Mr Elon's concerns, that support for public transport during this government has been quite unprecedented. Last year we increased EUR 200 million, which is an unprecedented sum, to compensate both for the loss of tickets for urban public transport and then for the reduced number of customers in municipal order traffic, and yet EUR 28 million was put into this amending budget to be published tomorrow. Easy to remember: 228 for public transport and VR still22,i.e.there was also a high rate of aid for the purchase As Mr Eskelinen quite rightly said, the regional transport system plans play a very important role in this. I would like to assure Mr Könttä that this long-term approach in itself will allow us to have better access to these EU funds, but they always require a national response, and those solutions will, of course, always be in the pockets of future governments. Well, there has now been a lot of talk about these EU rail subsidies, the CEF. Let us now say clearly that in this last tiny search, which did not have much money in hand, and they always set their own criteria, it was now that our Helsinki-Tampere period was not yet at the stage of maturity required by the EU at that stage, but now this programming period is just beginning and reaching the point where it is supported. So, every round, there's no money. In fact, we have had a pretty bad record during this first seven years, and this change took place last summer, when, in the first search of the Sanna Marin government, Finland doubled the EU support for rail projects to nearly EUR 60 million, i.e. three times the total amount to which it has been available until then,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u75	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u76	Mr President! Good groundwork has been done here for future investment decisions. It is very important what these more concrete investment programmes will then be made on this basis. When that frame is rather tight, it is very important that the CEF funding applications referred to by the Minister are fully exploited. On that planning side, during the previous parliamentary term, the government made major mistakes in not moving forward, for example, this Helsinki-Riihimäki inter-planning exercise. It would now have been eligible in all its forms if it had been done in time for the plans. The Committee on Finance, Transport and Tourism was consulted on these key elements, and as far as rail investment is concerned, it was revealed that this development reserve of 1.7 billion, which has been made available here,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u77	Mr. Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u78	President! Taxes and charges on transport users, especially private car users, are already excessively tight. At the same time, the roads are in poor condition in many places. People ask a lot of questions about what taxes on cars are being used for. And we must remember that the quality of the transport network is directly linked to the operating conditions and employment of companies. There are a lot of worthwhile proposals in the report, but action is now needed. There have been a lot of parliamentary groups this season too, where really great things are painted, but where there is no or very little concrete. But it has been wonderful to hear that this parliamentary group has been said to have actually been a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u79	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u80	Madam President! Accessibility is an integral part of the vitality and development of cities and regions. It is therefore important that particular attention be paid to this in the report. The accessibility of many smaller cities is low and has therefore also been excluded from the development of larger cities. For example, the report strongly supports the development of passenger train traffic and the extension of this accessibility to new localities. For example, my own home town, Rauma, is currently the largest city in Finland, where there is no functional connection between passenger train traffic. It is now important and wonderful that the report supports precisely this extension of the network. We have done all the necessary work on this and, in fact, the crash can be put to the ground. But now I ask you, Minister: if the report is adopted in Parliament, what steps will you take to expand this network of passenger trains to new urban areas, so that the accessibility of smaller cities will also be improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u81	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u82	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Harakka and all those involved in the preparation of the transport system plan. The city centre defends everyone’s right to live in the peninsula, snooze or island they want. It was extremely important to us that the whole country should be well taken into account in this plan. It is also noted that the majority of traffic in Finland continues and will continue to travel on rubber wheels. Last week in Kuusamo we had to ask the Defence Forces for help because of this gravel road that softened the spring weather. A truck was brought in to protect the people on the side of the road. Suspending road repairs will lead to difficult situations. That is why it is good that there is an increase in basic infrastructure management, and also that the state aid for private roads is being increased. As has been said, the need for money remains high and the direction — this is the right direction in which this plan is — still needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u83	Congressman Kvarnström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u84	Thank you, Mr President. This transport system plan is important and historic. It creates strategic conditions for a long-term transport policy. Thank you to all those who have contributed to the preparation of this plan, and in particular to Minister Haraka. It is extremely important that this package has been prepared under the leadership of the parliamentary steering group. And although each government makes its own decisions, so it is in everyone's interest that there is such a stable strategic foundation. The objectives of the plan are the right ones. One of the most important things I think is that new transport investments will contribute to sustainable transport and the benefits for society outweigh investment costs. I believe and hope that in practice this also means that we will prioritise projects with a good cost-benefit ratio. For large projects in particular, this must be a requirement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u85	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u86	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister and all of you. For those who have made the Transport 12 plan. A few remarks. In this debate, Minister, you pointed out that our road repair debt would be reduced. But when I read a recent report by SKAL, for example, you will reduce last year: you will actually cut the amount of asphalting by half.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u89	Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u90	Mr President! This 12-year transport system plan is the first of its kind. This is how it can be described as historical. This has been the subject of parliamentary preparation under several governments, and it is great that this is now being put to the finish line by the Marin government. Thank you, Minister Haraka, for that. This long-term plan creates predictability for business, municipalities and regions and enables more efficient use of EU funding. I also very much welcome the government's line that, while we are making a strong contribution to the development of the rail network and rail transport, at the same time we will take better care of the condition of the existing network by also investing in renovation. So the debt of correction is going down. Thank you also to the government for the fact that Pirkanmaa, the most attractive province in our country and the concentration of business, has received support for its projects. This must continue to be the case. I am particularly pleased that rail transport is being better taken into account. In addition to the development of Tampere’s steering wheel, the local rail transport projects included in the MAL agreements are important to take forward and further develop. Climate-friendly and easy mobility is today and even stronger in the future, without forgetting road traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u91	Congressman Kaunto, gone. — I will give the last speech of this debate to Mr Kymäläinen and then to the Minister for another 3 minutes. — Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u92	Madam President! First of all, Mr Heinonen, just as the Minister said earlier in this House, it is far from being less asphalted in the following years when the money has already been transferred in advance and is being made forward-looking, that is to say more than a billion people will spend more money on basic access during this term of government. The Government has increased its EUR 300 million annual level increase to finance basic bus maintenance. There is no compromise on this basic route management, as was clearly stated here. [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u97	And now Minister Harakka, three minutes, and then we will move on to the list of speakers. — Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u98	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for these last comments. This Plan for Transport 12 is, as I said, a compass, and when it says so, it is expected that this decades of neglect will be corrected over the next 12 years. But Mr Koponen asked what is already being done and what is now being done. As I said — and as Mr Kymäläinen has repeated here — that increase of more than EUR 1 billion in basic bus maintenance during this term of government is beginning to appear. Indeed, last year the record was made, that is, 4,000 kilometers of road was paved, which was two and a half times what was in 2019. If we now compare this coming summer to 2019, growth will be more modest: only 50 percent more now paved this government than its predecessor
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u103	And then we move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u104	Madam President! Minister, there's nothing to worry about. I'm not going anywhere. Thank you for a good conversation. I would like to thank you first of all for the work that has been done on this Transport 12 work, and that is precisely the value of having such a will for a more long-term examination in this Chamber. That has been the common goal, and work has been done here, and it has been good to hear that it has been the real parliamentary work that has been done here. But it does not mean that we cannot have different approaches and comments on these transport issues, or it does not eliminate it when the left is saying here that we should not talk about taxes when we talk about transport. Of course, more than 8 billion different taxes and charges are collected from transport on an annual basis, and that money is about what it is spent on. It was also rightly pointed out in the statements by the opposition that this money should be directed more towards the transport network. I would like to make one point on the track: the main line. I am concerned that we are still planning this Häme bypass that would bypass Riihimäki and Hämeenlinna, and I hope that we will now return to that traditional main line and make those additional tracks there. I am also concerned that VR's interest in the regional trains, the so-called R and Z trains, has decreased significantly, and I would like to see this taken into account. This would significantly strengthen the use of these tracks. Well, then the fairway of light traffic is one of the most important. In fact, at the moment it is, in people's opinion, the most important nearby exercise place from the point of view of fitness, cycling and many others, and that is certainly our common goal that we can get more of them. Then to this question: Our road network has a total length of more than 450,000 kilometres, a large part of which is private and forest roads, about 26,000 kilometres of urban and municipal roads and less than 80,000 kilometres of state roads. Of these roads, about 50,000 kilometers are paved, or asphalt roads. We've been talking about this repair debt for a long time. Last season, when we started to close this debt of correction and make these contributions under the leadership of the then Minister of Transport, Anne Berner, I would like to thank you for continuing this work. However, in 2019 the renovation debt of the fairway network was still around 2.8 billion. Last year, these asphalts were made about 4,000 kilometres, and I think it is a certain minimum number where we should be able to spend several years in succession so that the repair debt would actually turn down. And this was not my estimate, so this was the estimate of the Finnish Transport and Logistics SKAL that in the case of asphalting, it takes at least 4,000 kilometres of road to be covered per year. “Professional care is both an environmental act and A better road means increased safety and well-being at work for road users, reduced fuel consumption and climate load.” This is what SKAL said when they took the view that this year the amount of asphaltation will be cut from 4,000 kilometres last year to 2500. The chairman of the Transport Section of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalle Jokinen, has often pointed out that this is not quite the case with how many trips we take on rubber wheels and tracks and on the road. More than 90% of passenger traffic is carried out by rubber wheels and more than 80% by passenger cars. Mr President! However, I welcome the fact that such a common will is our nationality, then the old road network, the maintenance of what is our common property, but also how we can get to this country better road networks, rail networks and others in the future, so that we can keep Finland as a whole alive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u105	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u106	Madam President! From the perspective of Finland's growth and regional policy, the Marin Government has raised the importance of transport policy to a big role on the Government's agenda. When the main issues were asked about the various regions under the Parliamentary elections as matters to be handled by the future parliament, accessibility rose especially in the regions of Eastern and Northern Finland, even beyond social and health services. That is what this transport system work and the transport policy of this government have responded to. The Government has already made important decisions in the past with the increased funding for infrastructure investments and basic infrastructure management, and a large number of transport investments are under way or are underway, both in rail, road and water traffic around Finland. The transport system plan now under discussion is an important evidence of parliamentary cooperation that it is possible to align the accessibility of Finland as a whole and the development of the transport system as well as the financial framework. For that, thank you to Minister Haraka and all those involved, and thank you, as I said in that debate, also for the large number of those involved in regional transport system work. And a special thank you also for the cooperation of the people of Eastern Finland in this preparation. The regional transport system work was a fine exercise and development process for strong cooperation between this sector, which brings things forward in a long time-term perspective. With regard to the transport system plan, I would like to highlight a few points below the main objectives of accessibility, sustainability and efficiency. The alignment of the long-term financial framework and the increase in the level of basic infrastructure management and the permanent financing of private roads — this will be able to reverse the debt reduction over the next few years and, in particular, ensure the accessibility of our lower road network, which is important from the point of view of industry, the transport of raw materials and the smooth running of people's daily lives, particularly in those regions. The aim of the plan is to take account of all modes of transport in terms of rail transport, road transport, water transport and the development of air transport. In addition, it is important that Finland improves relative accessibility between regions, and Eastern Finland is in the back way at the moment. The comprehensive development of our fairway is important for the competitiveness of Finnish industry, for the vitality of regions and for the development of the whole of Finland and for the mobility of everyday life. The development of mobility and forms of mobility will also support the promotion of sustainable transport, road safety and our climate objectives, which will be a strong priority in the programme in areas such as the MAL Agreement, public transport, digital transport and cycling. With regard to future investment, I would like to highlight these major rail projects, the project companies, which are now in a congregated position and the planning of these projects, both to the east, to the west and towards the main track, and In the case of water transport in Saimaa, previous decisions on water transport are a significant development leap in the possibilities of water transport and in the case of Finnish exports and then, from the point of view of the provinces, this is recorded as three-hour accessibility through air traffic to regional centres. Then there are also concerns, and they will probably arise in the further debate. In particular, I would like to raise this issue of regional air traffic, which is now on a temporary basis until the end of the year, and I must now really ensure that air transport, if not on market terms, will continue from the beginning of 22 C.E. The second is, of course, a wish to finally get the renovations of Savo and Karelian track moving in the planning process. And thirdly, perhaps there is the concern about the financing framework for basic infrastructure management, so that it is not the first to be hit. One wish is that once the fine decision has been taken in Saimaa, I would also like to see a growth, development plan for inland ports, which would then be able to exploit this growth potential of exports from the province. Mr President! It is now important that the programme can be implemented already during this term of government, according to the steps that have been agreed together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u107	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u108	Madam President! Thank you again to Minister Haraka for this cooperation and also to the other parties involved. These transport and fisheries issues are such that you can argue about them not only in Alma's bar, and there has been a lot of debate and there will probably still be enough after this. But I can say that we are now at a certain point in history. We have been able, in parliamentary terms, to formulate a common vision of the 12-year national transport system plan. In the past, there have been parliamentary working groups in the field of transport — we remember from 2011 to 15, where, I think, Eestilä was — but they have been limited to that parliamentary term, which has been somewhat shorter-sighted. The national transport system plan is a strategic plan for a 12-year period and will be updated every parliamentary term. The parliamentary plan commits the parties to moving forward a common vision over parliamentary periods. I think this is the steak. Madam President! Objectives of the plan: Three objectives have been set for the national transport system plan, the accessibility criterion, the sustainability criterion and efficiency. All of these have a common, parallel effort to curb climate change. Mr President! In Finland, for example, we are lagging behind in making use of EU funding to develop the fairway network, and the longer-term plan now has the possibility of better access to the TEN-T core network and also to CEF funding. In this, Finland must play an active role and, above all, be proactive. Above all, the development of rail transport for EU funding is a priority here on the CEF side, and of course I hope that, in the name of road safety, heavy traffic over long distances can be transferred to the rail side. Mr President! The development of the transport system is essential for the use of regions, the development of regions, the competitiveness of business, the fight against climate change, the good everyday life of citizens and security of supply. The development of the transport system will also take into account the requirements of preparedness, preparedness and emergency conditions. The financial lines of the report are divided into two lines. For us social democrats, the important thing in the national transport system plan is to reduce the debt to repair transport routes. I do think it is equally important to develop the network. The main focus on reducing the repair debt is on basic bus maintenance, and in development the main focus is on the rail transport sector. There are no major financial differences, but the main focus is on the development of rail transport. The increase in funding for basic transport infrastructure management will reduce the correction debt, and the correction debt will decrease from EUR 2.8 billion in the planning period to EUR 2.2 billion by 2032. Roads are subject to a repair debt of EUR 1.5 billion and railways of EUR 1.25 billion. And as has been said here before, this period will see a one billion reduction in the correction debt. Madam President! The development of the transport system focuses on cooperation between different actors and the coordination of different measures, and the national transport system plan enables the long-term development of the transport system in Finland. The development of the transport system takes account of the international nature of transport and international trends. And, Mr President, to conclude, we have been able to record the three-hour deadline for this accessibility of the regions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u109	Thank you. — Mr Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u110	Mr President! We are dealing with the first 12-year national transport system plan in history. It was already agreed during the previous election period to achieve a long-term transport policy beyond government and party boundaries, and transport policy would not wave from one period to the next. It has been a pleasure to be involved in this preparation and I thank all parties for their good cooperation in drawing up this plan. Transport policy is a good example of the fact that we also need common long-term objectives in politics, to which we can commit ourselves over the day-to-day noise. It's about future decisions. The transport system is a wide-ranging entity and covers all modes of transport. Functioning transport connections are critical to vitality and competitiveness. They also play a major role in rising from the corona crisis and in our everyday lives. Therefore, the objectives set for the development of the transport system, accessibility, efficiency and sustainability, are at the heart of everything. The Coalition Party considers it important for Finland to be on track in the transport system. We promote high-speed rail connections, repair the increased road network repair debt, develop our airport network and meet the challenges of growing cities. The movement shall be smooth regardless of the mode of travel. The transport system plan must be able to meet the long-term needs of Northern, Southern, Eastern and Western Finland. Common solutions have been sought to address these challenges. Finally, a few critical remarks. The Coalition Party required that a detailed presentation of the cost-sharing model of the State and the municipalities be removed from this plan as it was not acceptable to the municipal party. A good idea for the co-financing model is that the state supports transport investments in support of sustainable urban growth, for example, and municipalities contribute to the costs when they benefit from the projects. This requires common rules of the game. However, the present design was perceived as a new financial responsibility for the state transport infrastructure for cities and municipalities, too formulaically and unilaterally, and also in a situation where the social welfare reform at the same time significantly undermines the local government's financial position and ability to invest. This could jeopardise the realisation of some investments. That is why we proposed to direct this issue to further negotiations this year in order to find common ground rules. In itself, it is good to expand the funding base and also to apply for new funding models. This does not refer to congestion charges, it does not even have to be made possible by legislation — even if the decisions are in the municipalities — but rather more different PPP models, or I would also encourage the use of the alliance model to make these transport investments. Good examples of this have been found at least in my own hometown of Tampere: the timetable has been kept and the costs have been managed. So there are models. — Well, this was the distribution of costs and the financing base. Secondly, the plan states that EU funding will be fully utilised. This has not now been done and funding has not been requested for key elements of the TEN-T network in the spring application process. It is true that implementation could not be applied for yet, but I do see that planning should be mobilised quickly, because it is always possible to catch up with the funding in the next application that will enable us to be able to apply more quickly and to reach these larger planning amounts. In this context, we will also draw attention to the fact that this lack of full application for EU funding has to be remedied in the coming summer application. Finally, critical importance will also be attached to how the actual investment programme will be drawn up on the basis of this plan. We expect it to be developed in good interaction. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u112	Irade the Talman! Inledningsvis vill jag rikata ett stort jack till alla som har bidragit till den raus riksomfattande trafiksystemplanen, och speciellt till communicationsminister Harakka. Det ox documents är historianskt. Det är en bra början, en stark grund, en strategisk och långsiktig syn på hur trafiksystemet ska skötas och utvecklas under tolvår. Det handlar förstås om att skapa förutsägbarhet och därmed öjliggöra bättre planing. Det handlar också om att göra trafiksystemet mer hållbart och effectivt. Vi socialdemocracy har länge effecterlyst och arbetat för en sådan rai plan, och det är verkligen glädjande att den nu behandlas rai i denna sal effecter att ha beretts under den parliamentariska styrgruppens ledning, och effecter att ha beaktat remissvar och synvinklar från en stor mängd intressegrupper. Även om varje regering också haidaefter kommer att ätta sin egen prägel på trafikpolitiken så är det bra om vi har en gemensem grund att bygga på, om vi över valperioder kan enas om de stora strategiska linjerna. Det är av stor vikt att basunderhållet priorityeras, att vi tar hand om och utvecklar vår infrastruktur och en långsiktig plan för hur vi vi åtgärdar reparationsskulden som gäller både vägnätet och bannatet. Det är också viktigt att vi blir bättre på att använda oss av EU-finansiering, vilket öjliggörs just tag vare långsiktig planering.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u113	Mr President! At the end of the day, I only have a few comments. I hope that correct information will be provided on these EU aid applications. We have applied for all the projects that have been approved with regard to these criteria. It is now the case that the criteria do not always favour the stage in which we are dealing with these projects. In particular, I would like to have the right information because this government has historically managed to obtain EU support for rail projects, in a way quite different from that of its predecessor. Another point in which I would perhaps also like to see precision is that, as I said, the state must be a predictable and reliable contractor. When a steering wheel is planned in Vantaa or Tampere, it is important to know from the outset what to expect from the state about how the state’s contributions are involved in it. In other words, the Transport 12 programme has recorded actual cost distributions for large cities last autumn. This is only in the spirit of transparency and strong cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u114	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the order of business have been closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u115	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Debate, Mr Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u116	Madam President, ärade fru talman! On this occasion, Minister Harakka said earlier that now that we are dealing with this national, historic transport system, it is history. That's right. Finally, we have a national plan. It is strategic, long-term and forward-looking. The plan covers all modes of transport on land, at sea and in air — including underground when data connections are discussed — and this plan covers the whole country. This plan applies to everyone, every Finn. I was pleased to be involved in this parliamentary work, and thank you very much to Minister Haraka and all my colleagues, but also to the officials in the ministry who did a great, great job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u117	Madam President! It is a wonderful thing that Finnish transport planning takes such an important step. The planning of the transport system is now being coordinated in a comprehensive and long-term direction. The traffic report is done together. Parliamentary parties agree on this plan, which takes account of all modes of transport. The strategic plan shows the handprint of different parties, including the centre. All the parliamentary parties and a considerable number of other actors were involved. The report will guide the planning and financing of the transport system for several parliamentary periods. It brings continuity and long-term development. This has been done in cooperation towards a common goal. For us downtown people, the conditions for life and vitality in the whole country are a matter of heart. They are particularly important when it comes to transport. To be able to live in the desired part of the country, a good road and telecommunications network covering all areas is needed. Our transport routes are our national property and part of a safe environment that we must maintain. Social security of supply, business needs and smooth connections from home to school, work and hobbies should be taken into account. In order to be safe to travel, we need roads in good condition. The vitality of a sparsely populated country is partly based on the smooth movement of people. It is clear that services of the same kind cannot be provided in the province’s urban area as in the capital region, but that smooth transport connections are a prerequisite for everyone. On the small roads of the province in the country of long distances you can see the significance of good road management. Mr President! Both the Sipilä Government last season and the Marin Government this season have made strong investments in basic bus maintenance. The Sipilä Government increased funding by a total of EUR 600 million. The current government, in turn, increased funding by 300 million a year. The road repair debt began to be dismantled last season and has now been extended. Last year was a very important year. Public transport operates smoothly only in large cities; smooth road connections are needed from north to south as well as from east to west. Since fuel consumption is falling on well - laid roads, the roads in good condition are part of protecting our nature. Light transport routes are important for both safety and public health — they are rung. These are all important investments that we must take care of. Roads are an essential part of the vitality of the provinces and the country as a whole. They are a prerequisite for people to move and for goods to move into place in the production chain. When we take care of our basic routes, we also need to develop a lower road network up to private roads. Residents, tourists, cottages, businesses and farms need their way. The whole country needs its tracks, ports, regional airports and communications connections. We need a digital track and a smart road. As distance work and multi-placency increase, this is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u118	Congressman Aittakumpu is gone. — Mr Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u119	Madam President! This important 12-year transport system plan, which has been drawn up in Finland for the first time, is finally being discussed by Parliament. The plan has been drawn up between 2021 and 2032 and will be reviewed in the future by the Government. The transport system plan has been developed in good cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the parliamentary working group and other stakeholders during this parliamentary term. The result is a comprehensive national plan designed to develop all transport modes in Finland, including employment and housing needs. The intention is that cooperation in transport matters between the state and municipalities will be more proactive and more systematic, including for business. This is why, for example, a significant investment will be made in the improvement and repair of the lines. Infrastructure renewal and versatility are also important measures for reducing emissions, thereby supporting climate objectives. The plan also provides effective support for air and port operations. In addition, this plan will make it possible to make more effective use of EU funding. Mr President! Key challenges for the development of the transport system will be the deterioration of the transport network and the growing correction debt. International climate targets and limited state resources also create their own challenges. The Transport 12 plan is fair and takes equal account of the country as a whole by means of long-term development work. Municipalities and regions play a central role in this, in addition to the state. The plan also includes a permanent increase in the financing of basic infrastructure management. According to the plan, the level of funding is expected to be around EUR 1.4 billion from 2025. From 2025 onwards, the cost level increases will also be taken into account in the treatment and repair costs. As a representative of Kymenlaakso, I am pleased that Kymenlaakso's message was heard. The welcome news to Kouvola, as well as to Kotka, is that highway 15 has also been listed among the roads in the largest development need. The inclusion of Highway 15 among the roads in the largest development needs is of paramount importance, as this is the route along which the most important transport infrastructure project in the province will hopefully proceed as quickly as possible. In addition, the development of Kouvola-Kuopio-, Kouvola-Joensuu and Kouvola-Imatra sections of Savo and Karelia will continue. Madam President! Promoting digitalisation and automation are important issues in the transport plan. The development of these projects will promote, for example, pilot projects in preparation, such as Digirata. It is a flexible process. The plan will be drawn up in government terms and will be examined in the light of the experience gained, and the plan will continue to evolve through the new issues that have emerged. Budget decisions on the project will be taken by each government and parliament, as has been the case to date. I regard this important 12-year transport system plan as a very successful whole, which is being further modified to make the outcome even better. I am glad that this great package has been taken forward with determination under the leadership of the SDP. Thank you very much for this, Mr Haraka, the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u120	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u121	Mr President! Transport routes are part of Finnish national property. At this seriousness they must also be taken care of and developed. The transport system plan now under discussion has been prepared by all the parliamentary parties and many social bodies. The plan is a road map to the future, literally. Finland is a large and sparsely populated country with different needs and opportunities. Larger cities and population-rich areas tend to have better roads and more functional public transport, while smaller localities and sparsely populated areas may be crammed along weak footpaths. Logic is not all in the world, because it is in rural areas where your own car is the only option for local shops or health services. It's important to the city centre that people can live where they want to live. Multi-spatiality and remote work are on the increase. Decentralised society requires good roads and communication routes throughout the country, that is, the whole country, even to the outback forests. It is not just a question of people, it is often a matter of contacts between the forestry industry, for example, which are not highways. Driving itself is in a big transition. Efforts are being made to reduce emissions from cars, which is a good thing, and cars are rapidly electrified. The car industry is also looking towards less-emission racing games. It is important that driving does not become more expensive for those who have no other choice, this is a question of justice. The aim must be to find a fairer tax system for motoring, in which the Toyota man with track tracks is not treated in the same way as the Mercedes man with the hunks of motorways, that is to say, with regard to taxation. President! I myself am in a happy position to live on the main track. Under normal circumstances, the train is an overwhelming alternative to commuting. Trips from Seinäjoki to Helsinki are quick and also enable efficient work. The main line also needs to be developed as a whole. A double track north of Tampere is absolutely necessary. A good starting point is double track between Tampere and Seinäjoki for over 100 kilometres. There are 2.2 million passengers per year, which is the largest number of passengers in Finland on a single track. Now trains stop in the middle of nowhere to wait for traffic to arrive. It's not very efficient. It's not a sure thing to do. The measure would reduce travel time, streamline traffic planning and improve punctuality. President! Like rail transport, aviation has suffered significantly from corona. At the same time, technological change is taking place in unmanned aviation and small aviation. The country’s leading developer of unmanned cargo transports, Dronamics, begins operating from, for example, Seinäjoki Airport. The goal is to start unmanned cargo flights in 2022. The Drones are transporting goods, electronic aviation is coming in, and remote control is developing. These new opportunities promise good results for small airports around Finland. It is the famous innovation that we often encourage from Parliament. Small airports are also worth looking at from the point of view of security of supply, preparedness and emergency conditions. Airports have not only a role to play in the field of scheduled transport, but they also play a crucial role as an enabler of business. I wish we could identify this. President! All in all, I thank you for the transport system plan. It's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u122	Congressman Könttä's gone. — Representative Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u123	Madam President! Thank you again to Minister Haraka, the administrative machinery and the parliamentary steering group for the national transport system plan for the years 21-32. It is important that transport policy has a long-term perspective, continuity and strategic grip. This plan is necessary and welcome, and its objectives are correct. At the same time, it should be noted that the next 12 years will be a time for change in the long-term and planning. Transport emissions will be halved by 2030. Technological development is rapid not only in transport itself but also in digitalisation and information networks and their scaling. Urbanisation continues as a driving force for shaping Finnish society, and it is therefore important that plans are made in such a way that this change can be taken into account. Reducing climate emissions is a key challenge for transport in this decade. It requires a great deal of means, new power forces, especially electricity, changes in the way of travel, the transition to public transport, cycling. The road map for unfossil traffic focuses on these activities. As far as the transport system plan is concerned, it is essential that the sustainable transition is not caught up in the infrastructure. During the debate on transport and the discussion of this plan, much has been said today about the state of the roads throughout Finland. It is an understandable and important subject. At the same time, it is good to remember that growth cities play a key and growing role in the Finnish economy and society. According to the data of the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, 80% of jobs are already in cities, and 82% of Finland's GDP is generated in cities. The interest rate does not translate urbanisation permanently, if even temporarily, but I believe it will even accelerate. That's a good thing. Economics is familiar with the phenomenon in which increasing city size and population density increase productivity. Urbanisation therefore supports public finances and improves employment. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy visited the OECD in Paris at the beginning of the period. I remember there a debate in which the OECD expert also stressed the economic importance of smooth and fast connections between cities and within cities, i.e. rail links in practice. These are projects that typically pay themselves back fast. Straight-line cost estimates tend to underestimate the benefits if the country’s value increases and the cumulative benefits of networking are not taken into account. All of this does not mean that Finland should not live exactly where it wants to live and that the transport system should not be maintained and developed throughout the country. Even these urban statistics hide in a certain way that many activities are actually dependent on raw material flows and labour, on working outside cities and hence on transport. This subject does not need confrontation, but good analysis and smart conclusions. It is also served by this plan. Thank you for that. Let us end with this EU perspective, which has also been mentioned today. Full use of EU funding is essential. It is not just about money, it is about the Finnish transport system as part of the transport system of the European internal market and the economic area. Close and functional connections are in the interest of both Finland and the European economy, and they are of no importance to safety and security of supply either.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u124	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u125	Madam President! There has been a good debate here about the Government's report on the national transport system plan for 2021-2032. From the outset, agreement has its value, and that is what this whole thing shows. Mr Eestilä said here earlier about the role of transport investment in municipalities. I do not think I could have said it better than he said, so I quote his words in a light way. He mentioned that transport investments and transport investments are an importer of the future faith and a builder of the foundation of economic activity in a slightly more remote part of Finland, and this was very well said. When I think of my own hometown, Kouvola, that is indeed the case — and Kouvola is not even an isolated city. It is extremely important that Finland’s blood vessels are well. Finns go to work, take their children to hobbies and go to the store along the roads. Finns do not drive their evil — they drive because they live. At the same time, Finnish heavy traffic is doing valuable work to keep the wheels of the Finnish economy running. We need to guarantee clean and healthy blood vessels, that is, roads, so that the wheels of the economy and life rotate. How, then, do we crediblely justify to taxpayers, that is, to the greatest extent to motorists, why should they pay a heavy tax burden and keep their cars in order if the state does not maintain roads that drive? That, in my opinion, is the core issue. The tax burden on transport is EUR 8 billion, and only crumbs will be recovered. On the other hand, it may be asked whether it makes sense in the future to raise the same amount of tax money as has been collected in the past — people who have acted as the state has wanted and hoped, and reduce emissions from mobility, and they will continue to do so to an increasing extent. In the future, we will have to think seriously about where the money will come from for transport investment. That is why, once again, employment measures and the dismantling of red tape are at the heart of this. In this context, I would like to point out that large, speed-enhancing rail projects such as the main track, the Turku-hour train and the east track do not belong to the content of this report in economic terms, but when we consider the importance of working remotely in Finland and working on the train, I would like to stress that this would be an important opportunity to improve train travel to become more suitable for working. For example, it is extremely important for a city such as Kouvola, which is relatively close to Helsinki, to have a good distance work on the train. I would also like to raise the floor of another representative who was heard here a moment ago. Representative Kivisaari raised the issue here of future aviation and therefore small airports and electric aircraft. This can have revolutionary opportunities for small municipalities, such as Pyhtää, where innovation and hard work have been done for a better future. Courage to look to the future is crucial both for security of supply and for business. I would like to thank you for this first parliamentary report and remind you that the actions are those that determine.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u126	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u127	Madam President! A few words on this report, on the basis of this debate which has already taken place today: First of all, I think it is very good and important and valuable that for the first time, the parliamentary parties have, through joint parliamentary work, sought a more long-term perspective on the development of Finnish transport policy. I hope that this will also be reflected in the way in which the various projects are planned and financed. It brings predictability and also a message to the long-term regions about what projects are being implemented, what it means for regional development, and so on. Madam Speaker! A few comments from the point of view of my own country, Satakunta, in relation to this plan: I am very pleased that this report is now emphasising accessibility as a key issue. We know that many regions, many provinces, many cities, many sub-regions have been left out, or there is a risk that they will be excluded from the growth of larger cities. The key way in which these other regions and regions will also be involved in this growth is to ensure their accessibility. That is why it is precisely all these measures that can be put in place, even though within the province — I will take the example of Pori and Rauma — that are becoming increasingly intensive in the work area, which facilitates the transport of industry and the employment of people, that are indeed conducive to the development of the whole region and the region. I very much welcome the fact that it is precisely this accessibility that has now been given the central focus of the report. Similarly, Madam President, as far as road transport is concerned, I think it is very important that the report states that the main routes under the main route regulation are being developed strongly, and this means, of course, the development of both highway 2 and highway 8 now and in the future. There is no rail link on the West Coast, so in practice the development and growth of the entire West Coast is based only on the 'Vt 8', and it is of course quite clear that the traffic volumes will then also be quite high. Madam Speaker! And then there's the rail traffic. As I said earlier today, the report stresses very strongly that the accessibility and scope of passenger train services should be extended in Finland, and I certainly expect the Minister of Transport to take action now and to take forward the connection of passenger train services in Rauma, which we have been waiting for and which has been jointly prepared. We are in the process of completing the rail stop, and all the studies and studies have been carried out. In practice, we are the largest region in Finland where this traffic is currently not available,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u128	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u129	Thank you, Madam President. The transport system plan is a good and wide-ranging package of measures to promote transport and mobility. The extensive report has succeeded in recording a wide range of projects and ideas — we can thank you for that. Public transport and the organisation and financing of public transport have been described in a quite diverse way in the report. In this respect, however, the rather narrow approach to public transport is surprising. One important element of public transport, taxi transport, has been very limited in the report. It seems that in the 150 - page report the word “ taxi ” is mentioned twice. Madam President! In my opinion, public transport is one package in which different actors support each other. Without public transport, the transport system will not work, but, quite similarly, without small vehicles, our public transport system will not be functional and efficient in many regions of our country. In my home town of Salo, for example, there are quite good public transport connections to Turku and Helsinki. However, quite a few bus services drive the motorway at Salo, stopping but not entering the city centre. Interconnection by taxi is also necessary on these lines. If traffic terminals cannot be reached, good train or bus connections are no good. Secondly, it can also be said that almost all citizens are at some point in their lives in a situation where there is a need for unhindered transport. Here, too, unhindered taxi services as part of public transport play a vital role. The taxi also serves people with mobility limitations on trips where most people can walk or even ride bikes. As part of public transport and as part of our country's transport system, it must not be forgotten, but must be brought back to the position that it belongs to and has traditionally belonged in our country for decades. Madam President! In accordance with the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Transport and Communications, Parliament, when correcting the Transport Services Act, adopted a statement that the Government should evaluate and implement the measures needed to improve the availability of taxi services in different regions. A statement on the development of publicly supported transport was also adopted. However, these demands made by Parliament to the Government of Finland have not been taken into account in any way in this Government Report. How is it thought that Parliament's will will will is also taken into account in the transport system plan? Madam President! The Parliament is considering a law on public procurement of low-emission vehicles, which also requires significant new investment in vehicle fleets in the case of taxis. Now that it seems that in the future a significant part of professional taxi traffic will have to be handled by charging vehicles, how is the charging network of small business-dominated industries thought to be in a state-wide state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art? A single taxi driver is unable to build charging stations, and after each drive he cannot go home and load his car. The Sustainable Growth Programme has set aside EUR 20 million for a network for the charging of professional transport, which will not be sufficient to build a network that will in the short term become a real alternative to the taxi operator. How is this taken into account in the transport system plan? Madam President! I would like to conclude by saying that transport taxation has also been assessed during the spring as a civil servant. Transport is a significant tax revenue producer in Finland. Once the transport system plan has been drawn up, how is the tax neutrality of taxis carrying a higher tax burden than that of other public transport taken into account? Taxis will pay a full car tax, which will, of course, be reduced by EUR 1200 for another year. Taxis pay the vehicle tax, the basic tax and the propulsion tax in full. No other transport sector pays these taxes at this level. A significant increase in the fuel tax has now also been considered, which could be compensated for by a tax refund on commercial diesel. However, this tax refund could not be allocated to taxi transport, so that the already most taxed form of professional transport would be subject to a further tax burden. Let me ask you again: how has this been taken into account in the transport system plan? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u130	Congressman Strand is gone, Congressman Laukkanen is gone. — Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u131	Mr President! It is important that each parliament prepares a transport system plan for a period of 12 years as a statutory function. This time this work is based on the work of the parliamentary steering group. The most important starting point in Finnish transport policy is to secure smooth transport connections throughout Finland. The road and rail repair debt is massive, even dramatic. This correction debt must be consistently reversed. The condition of the road must be maintained at a good level. Our vast country and its economy run effectively on rubber wheels. Of course, other modes of transport, such as railways, maritime transport and aviation, are important, but most of our countries can only be reached by road. The task of the State is to ensure a good and comprehensive level of transport infrastructure and thus ensure smooth mobility across the country. Minister Harakka has told us here that Finland has taken good care of EU funding for the road, at least this season. Let us hope that this will continue in the next few months. Mr President! The so-called green transition must not harm economic activity. Of course, more ecological mobility must be sought, but not at the expense of the economy. Cycling within cities and many more widespread solutions in recent years, such as electric kickboards, bring excellent and ecological alternatives to private motoring, and this is how it should be. However, the conditions for driving must definitely be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u132	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u133	Madam President! This 12-year national transport plan highlights our huge debt to repair and invest in road and rail transport. We're gonna have to take this tighter and tighter. Although the report does not go to specific individual targets, I would like to highlight one critical section of the road between Kouvola and Kotka. I cannot stress enough when I say that investment appropriations on this road are vital and urgent. Highway 15 is Kymenlaakso's main south-north-north-way main road connection between Kotka and Kouvola. It is vital for the major industry, industry and community development in Kymenlaakso. It therefore constitutes a significant bottleneck for the competitiveness of the Finnish export industry and thus for the financing of all of our well-being. It is also the main route for commuting in Kymenlaakso urban areas. In other words, this investment would contribute to the creation of the euro that would enable other additional investments to be made around Finland. It is very important to understand that Kouvola is the largest city in Finland without a central hospital with its 80,000 inhabitants. Highway 15 is already, in principle, congested, complex and full of trucks, but it is now also full of emergency vehicles for health care. On my own account, I was able to prove the challenge of the road in a hurry a few weeks ago when my wife and I were driving from Kouvola to the maternity hospital in Kotka. Even though the situation was positive, at that very moment it was not very reassuring to be stuck in the truck queue. The service was excellent at Kymenlaakso Central Hospital, but not everyone is so lucky. In my opinion, this happiness should by no means depend on the condition of the road; it is a question of the safety of the people of Kouvola to the greatest extent. Madam President! I understand that Finland is full of important items for which money is needed. Prioritising money is therefore one of the most important actions of those in power. The fact that the roads are in bad shape tells a lot about the direction Finland is developing. Now, hopefully, after the report, we won't be looking for the culprits, we'll be solving the problems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u134	Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u135	Tack, värderade talman! This conversation was cut off earlier. I would have commented on the excellent speech made by Mr Estilä when he referred to the fact that the way in which we take care of the lower road network in particular is extremely important from the point of view of whether we trust the authorities and the state in this country and whether we feel that we are equally important, regardless of where we live.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u136	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 7/2021 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of five minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents continues to recommend that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of five minutes. — Now the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u137	Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Budgets was able to complete this report just before the government has already adopted the third amending budget. In view of the corona virus situation, this second draft amending budget contains a package of €225 million from the government in support of the cultural, sports and event sectors. It is divided into administrative branches of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. In addition, the Government proposes an additional amount of EUR 40 million for compensation for restaurant closures and EUR 3 million for support for reemployment for nutrition entrepreneurs. The proposal also includes an increase of EUR 8.3 million for the State Treasury in the provision of transaction guarantee and cost support for companies and the administrative costs of payment. It is also proposed to increase the scope of the overall reform of customs clearance systems. The cultural support package, amounting to EUR 127 million, consists in catalogues: EUR 64.8 million will be allocated in grants and other grants to art and cultural professionals, business names and self-employed persons, EUR 15 million in the field of art for so-called free field operators and communities, EUR 3.5 million for the so-called free field and other cultural heritage sites of museums, EUR 8 million for small and medium-sized cinemas and film distributors, EUR 4 million for the organisers of basic art education and EUR 1.6 million for cultural agencies. The physical activity support package consists of EUR 18.5 million, half of it for sports and sports clubs, 6 million for national and regional sports organisations and 3.5 million for events cancelled or lost as a result of the corona virus situation. The Committee welcomes these additional contributions and notes that the proposal takes due account of the aspects which the Committee on Finance drew attention to in its report on the first draft amending budget for the year 21. The fields of art and culture are among the main sufferers of the corona epidemic, since the majority of the players in the sector have been without job opportunities for the past two years. It is therefore important that the proposal now takes into account the diversity of the sector and the different forms of work, such as job workers, self-employed persons, sole entrepreneurs, freelancers and operators. Among other things, the Committee's expert consultation has drawn attention to the fact that the interest rate subsidy is still not sufficiently targeted specifically at those representatives of performing art and those sectors whose losses have been the greatest. The application procedure has also been considered to be too slow and it is hoped that the processing of applications will be based on numerical application data. The Committee considers it important that the criteria for grants and the application and decision-making procedures are constantly assessed in such a way that the aid responds as well as possible to the loss of income and the need for support. The support procedure and decision-making must also be transparent and effective so that grants can be delivered as quickly as possible. It must also be ensured that the support extends to all actors in the arts and culture sector, that there are no interlocutor groups and that, where possible, those who have previously been excluded from the support are also affected. The Committee also considers it important to improve the flexibility and usability of the system in the development of the state aid system. These questions are the subject of a statement proposed by the Committee on Finance: ‘The Commission requires that the granting of aid in the form of interest to art and culture professionals should be ensured,that there is no room for In a statement in the reply to the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, the Parliament required that financial losses caused by the closure of customer premises be reimbursed to traders through general cost support or as a separate compensation if 14 days of closure had to continue. The Committee considers it important that compensation be paid to companies subject to exclusion measures. The Committee also stresses that the greatest economic damage would be caused by the widespread spread of the virus, so effective measures to limit the number of restrictions introduced by legislation have been necessary. For the transaction guarantee: The committee welcomes the fact that the government has submitted a proposal for an event guarantee, which was also required by Parliament when it adopted the first amending budget for the current year. This article is intended to record an appropriation of EUR 80 million for the payment of the transaction guarantee to be paid in accordance with the Companies Temporary Cost Support Act. The committee welcomes the arrangements for an event guarantee as it reduces the risk of events being organised in a situation where a law or authority decree relating to the covid-19 pandemic prevents or impedes the organisation of events and access to finance or insurance. Support for companies with a temporary transaction guarantee is also justified in order to prevent long-term financial damage. After all, it proposes an increase of EUR 277118000 in appropriations and a reduction of EUR 9 million in revenue estimates. Following the proposed changes, the total amount of EUR 65.9 billion for the budget for this year is expected to come to an end. The committee proposes that Parliament accept the proposal for the second amending budget for 21 as contained in the government proposal and in the supplementary government proposal, without amendment, and that Parliament approve the statement that I have explained above and that Parliament decides that the second amending budget for 21 will apply from 1 June. And there are three objections to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u138	So, thank you to the chairman of the committee. — And now, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by congratulating the new Minister for Culture and Science, Antti Kurvis, and it fits in with this point, also because there is some sort of support package for the hard-hitted cultural, sports and event sectors. But I must say that unfortunately money alone is not enough to save this sector. It is a message coming from this cultural and event field and from sport and sports all the time. And, as musician Mikko Kosonen said on Twitter today, ‘The sector that has been targeted, exhausted and hateful, whose confidence decision has been undermined by a great deal of history. “ So said musician Mikko Kosonen. I hope that their voices will be heard better now in Minister Kurvise's time. But it is good that at least some help is being given to this event and cultural sector — it came at the last moment. At this stage, however, I will make a motion in the spirit of opposition 2 to the Assembly, which is therefore a joint objection from the Group of the European People's Party and Christian Democrats to this issue. All in all, we make eight statements and say, among other things, in this field of culture: ‘In addition to aid, the government must find the courage to change the direction of economic and cultural policy. Government decisions have weakened the conditions for business and the cultural sector. Excessive bureaucracy should be dismantled and a view created after the crisis of an environment with more opportunities than limitations. Even in times of crisis, relatively small regulatory changes can create opportunities for activity. For example, the operating conditions of restaurants can be improved through tax and regulatory changes. Restrictive measures shall be targeted appropriately at areas where the epidemic is progressing.’ We have good examples of this, such as Eurovision. Kind of freaked out when you looked at that amazing concert. There were a lot of people in the arena. It was able to be done in the middle of a corona crisis with corona security. Why cannot this be done in Finland? Gives opportunities to do, organise concerts, summer events, summer theatres, once again there are, Mr Government, opportunities for which Eurovision was a good example. At the same time, we have decided that 350 people can be taken to Veikkaus Helsinki Casino, but 16 at the Olympic Stadium next door, or a large cinema with over 500 people in Finland will be allowed to go to 6 people to watch the film, and at the same time many other places can be completely different. In our protests, which are therefore common to the Christian Democrats and the Coalition Party, we are going through this economic growth, we are going through the issue of the sustainability gap and other related issues. But I will finish with our objections on the last two motions for statements. Opinion 7: ‘The Board of Directors requires that the government organises mandatoryratetests for all countries which do This is the corona certificate, the corona passport that would work at the borders, that would prevent new virus variants from coming here, but it would work, the government of value, even in these events, as it did with Eurovisions, for example. Furthermore, the draft statement in 8 states that ‘the Commission requires that the government urgently corrects as an interestrestrictionrecommendations and regulations,in order to enable restaurant, sports and cultural actors to practice the Restriction measures should be limited to what is necessary.” This is our appeal now to the recent Minister of Culture and Science Kurvise. Mr President! Here, therefore, is the joint objection of the Christian Democrats and the Assembly to which I therefore tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u140	Like this. — and Mr Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u141	Mr President! No one can underestimate the importance of the field of events for the Finnish economy and employment or for the well-being of Finns. Similarly, we cannot underestimate the fatal effects on the sector, both necessary and restrictive measures, which have been taken to protect human health and human lives. No one yet knows the final price tag for the Korona pandemic. Currently, the direct costs of the interest rate in Finland are estimated at EUR 500 million per year. When combined with the indirect costs of the pandemic and massive economic stimulus measures, the actual size of the corona crisis is becoming clearer. The amending budget under discussion is the life-saving ring of the Finnish cultural, sports and event sector. It is important that the size of the support package is sufficient to allow as many actors as possible in the field of events to get back to the surface. Of the nearly EUR 226 million package proposed by the Government, EUR 146 million will be allocated to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture and EUR 80 million to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. This is an important whole. Mr President! In addition to the above, the Government proposes additional funding for compensation for restaurant closures and support for reemployment for nutrition entrepreneurs. These subsidies will also come in real need. The Committee on Finance rightly states in its report how the arts and culture sector is one of the main sufferers of the corona epidemic, since the majority of the players in this sector have been out of work for another year. The Committee also notes the importance of taking into account the diversity of the sector and the different forms of work, such as job workers, self-employed persons, sole entrepreneurs, freelancers and operators. In the past, some of these actors have not been supported. Now we're gonna fix it. Mr President! While the event guarantee creates the conditions for planning future cultural summers and autumns, the Government must promote health-security events. For example, the assessment of outdoor events and the opening up of large theatre facilities requires that differences be taken into account, both in the risk of events and in regional disease situations. Over the past few weeks, we have seen how quickly virus variants can make the epidemic worse. This was also the case in my own province, Kanta-Häme, when the virus that spreads more easily than before was discovered as a variant of India. Therefore, at the risk of repeating myself, I would like to continue to stress that the best possible support for both the event sector and society as a whole is to follow the guidelines given and protect each other from the corona virus. The better the disease situation gets, the faster we can open up the different functions of society and the sooner we can get back to events and cultural services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u142	Ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u143	Ärade talman, Mr President! There is indeed a second amending budget, and here is support for culture, sport and events, which is what was expected. It is good that now it was given. And if you start with sports, for example, there is support there, primarily because more and more children and young people have stopped doing this exercise, and this is really a great challenge for the well-being of our nation as well as for sports organisations. And this support — 9 million for clubs, 6 million for organisations and then, of course, for event organizers, is now very important. And this drop-out phenomenon is also very worrying in the long run.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u144	Honorable Speaker! The epidemic situation is slowly beginning, hopefully, to subsidise, and I hope that these last aid packages will remain so, at least as a result of this epidemic: the 225 million aid package for the administrative sectors of OKM and TEM, of which 145 million for OKM and 80 million for TEM. The aid package itself is a good one, as it fills gaps in previous aid packages. This additional budget makes it possible to support performing artists, gig workers, self-employed persons and those working in the field of art, in particular. These targets will cost 65 million people through the section of OKM. Indeed, the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, gave a good presentation of the distribution of this total of 127 million aid, which was here. I would also like to draw attention to the statement made by this committee on how to ensure that those who have not been given support are not allowed to be created and that those who have not been given support in the past are also taken into account. This may have been the case, for example, of the fact that the band has been in the form of a limited liability company, and when there has been no activity, there has also been no aid, and this has been very problematic for some. Or maybe one-man bands or even DJs have been left completely unsupported. We know that there are so many small-time gig musicians in Finland who may not have gotten anything but who, on the other hand, have lost their jobs. There is also an increase of 18.5 million in the additional budget for Mobility programmes, and hopefully the bulk of this support will flow to the level so that children can move back. I know that at least Mr Koponen has raised these issues, the exercise of children, many times, and it is hoped that this support will be right. An increase of 40 million is proposed for cost support, and it is therefore appropriate that compensation be granted to operators who have been subject to exclusion measures. We will take a more precise position on aid measures and measures derived from the epidemic situation in our proposals for statements. 80 million will be allocated to the transaction guarantee. Unfortunately, this event guarantee is being implemented too late and has already had an impact on the sector. The delay has led to numerous popular summer events not happening this summer either. The headlines of the afternoon newspapers, “Look at the giants’records that can be seen this year ” —the question is whether some of these At least near the representative Mäenpää in Seinäjoki you will not be able to tango during the summer. That is unfortunate. The transaction guarantee is from 1 June to 7 December. between, and then these reasonable costs indicated in advance will be paid if this event cannot be regarded as an epidemic situation. I shall make eight statements under protest 1. These therefore relate mainly to the epidemic situation and the recommendations derived therefrom and the opening hours, inter alia. In our first statement on the budget, we also propose that the government should return as soon as possible to the spending limits and that spending limits should no longer be exceeded in its additional budgets. With regard to the event guarantee, I object to the motion of censure against the government. ‘The government has delayed its execution of the This is why the Government does not enjoy the confidence of both the field of events and the parliament.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u145	Like this. — and Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u146	Mr President! There are eight joint statements in protest from the Christian Democrats and the Assembly, which I support here, as well as the content of the protest. It is important to note, in this protest, that we have certainly supported the government in approving the necessary expenditure on the corona pandemic, and in the sense that people, municipalities, businesses, all of them are going to be able to cope with this interest rate. But, of course, in this context, concern arises first of all from this overall picture of the economy, on which part of this objection is addressed. Above all, it must be understood that the economy is only an instrument for the future of the services of this welfare society, and that is why whether we have a credible and responsible plan for the future is absolutely essential when we talk about primary school or elderly services or early education or public transport or any other important services of society. The second point to which this objection has been addressed and to which some of those statements relate is this proportionality of the restrictions. I have to say that a lot of feedback has come from sportsmen and sportsmen about how hard it is for people to understand, which is why, for example, a football stadium can only have a few people in the audience when there may be a restaurant terrace next to it, from which the same game may be followed by several dozen, even hundreds. It might be said here that this proportionality and the fact that people have a view that this is fair and that it makes sense to do so will also help to ensure that these restrictive measures are followed up. Of course, it is very important to understand this importance of physical activity and sport, not only in the way that it is part of a hobby, but also in terms of the health and well-being of the nation as a whole. Now it has already been seen right here in the course of the year that when gyms, sports facilities and various indoor playgrounds have been closed, those costs have not only accumulated for these entrepreneurs, who have run these places, but above all there will be such a nation's health debt, welfare debt. And that is why the government should now be able to do better and then go to health - safe opening. Especially for children and young people, the period during which this kind of physical lifestyle is adopted is, however, those so-called years of sensitivity, and if we lose them and children and young people are excluded from these good hobbies, then it will be difficult to catch up later. But, Mr President, with these words indeed this support for the protest of the Christian Democrats and the Coalition Party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u147	Like this. — and Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u148	Mr President! For over a year now, the job opportunities of art and cultural operators have been minimal as a result of corona pandemic. The additional budget now under discussion has taken greater account of the diversity of the sector. However, the expert consultation of the Section for Education and Science revealed that the interest rate subsidy is still not targeted sufficiently closely and fairly, particularly on the representatives of performing art. The application procedure was also considered to be too slow. The criteria for granting the grant, as well as the application and decision-making procedure, must be constantly assessed so that the aid is more and more responsive to the loss of income and the need for support. Decision-making should be transparent. The committee raised the level of the statement to the effect that there should be no missed groups and that, where possible, the support should also reach those who have previously been excluded. Mr President! The additional budget includes an appropriation for grants to organisers of basic art education other than teaching hours. In the future, the support needs of basic art education institutions receiving an hourly state grant should also be assessed and taken into account. Mr President! The additional budget also allocates funds to sports and sports clubs, national and regional sports organisations and national series. Funds will also be allocated to support sports and sports events that have been cancelled and have suffered losses, including in support of future events. The Committee considers it important that municipalities and organisations also invest in activities promoting the well-being of children and young people. An important feature is the transaction guarantee, which compensates for the reasonable costs announced in advance as a result of the organisation of the event under separate legislation. The period between the events covered by this aid is 1.6. —7.12.2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u149	Like this. — and Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u150	Mr President! This second amending budget for the year 21 therefore proposes a package of € 225 million for the cultural, sports and event sectors. We all know how important this aid package is — thank you for that. I would also like to point out immediately what the Committee on Finance has also said: the granting of interest-rate subsidies to art and cultural professionals must ensure that there is no possibility of interlocutor groups being created and that decision-making also takes into account those who have not previously been eligible. I know that the government has recognised and certainly is struggling hard to ensure that this justice is achieved. As the coverage of interest-rate vaccinations increases, light and hope are once again visible. However, it has not removed the fact that tomorrow’s prospects remain at least cloudy. Even the field of events still has to deal with uncertainty. President! An amount of EUR 80 million has therefore been earmarked for the event guarantee under the Culture, Sport and Event Support Package. This guarantee makes it possible for organizers to have a backrest to act, perhaps also encouragement and faith in the future. The grant package also includes grants granted by the Arts Promotion Centre and state grants to cultural professionals, business names and sole proprietors. Almost EUR 65 million has been earmarked for this — not bad either. The Ministry of Education and Culture grants state grants to theatres, orchestras, museums, religious events and many others. All of us are familiar with the deep Finnish cultural heritage. Small and medium-sized cinemas and film distributors are supported by state grants from the Finnish Film Foundation — this too, of course, is a good thing. EUR 9 million have been earmarked for the sports and sports clubs, EUR 6 million for national and regional sports organisations and EUR 3.5 million for events cancelled or lost as a result of the corona virus situation — I thank you for that. Exercise clearly needs to be invested by the state, and that is what the government is doing now. The future, of course, of those who work in sports and sports is to be safeguarded or otherwise faced not only with a public health problem but also with mental and physical paralysis. The Government has been aware that sports and sports are the largest popular movement in Finland. Almost 2 million Finns participate in the follow-up activities. The club includes 500,000 volunteers and 160,000 instructors and coaches. And now the corona period has put many hobbies on a break during the year. Tens of thousands of children and young people have disappeared during the corona. This is a serious place you can't stand by and wonder. President! It is essential that the cultural, sports and event sectors recover as part of the reconstruction of society as a whole and as part of the recovery of people. These amending budget measures make it possible for us to have hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u155	Mr President! Yes, it is certainly appropriate to congratulate Mr Kurvis on his appointment as a minister in the field of art and culture. He'll have a job to do right away. As has been said here in the speeches, the field of art and culture has suffered significant losses in the field of corona, not to mention the activities of sports clubs and other related gymnasiums and so on, so it is good that it is now becoming helpful. So for artists in the arts and culture sector, corona pandemic has been very difficult. This is what we already drew attention to in the first amending budget when we urgently called for a proposal for an event guarantee, for example. We will ensure that every art and cultural professional receives the necessary support to overcome this crisis. The cultural, sports and event sector, which has been in crisis for a long time, is now receiving the necessary additional support with a €225 million support package. It is wonderful that the government has put forward a proposal to support the cultural sector as a matter of urgency. This cultural support package is extensive and cross-administrative. The committee's firm stance is to ensure that those who intervene in support are not born. Mr President! In the EU, it has been estimated that the cultural sector has been most affected by pandemic restrictions since the aviation sector. The aid package has been built in such a way that special attention is paid to the diversity of the sector and to various forms of work, such as job employment, self-employment, self-employment, self-employment, freelancer and activity. Due to the diversity of the sector, there are numerous needs. The package includes both a new event guarantee and an OKM support package consisting of grants and grants for cultural operators. It is good that the aid package also takes into account diversity. Chairman! Just for a short time, it is precisely for these sports facilities funding. Here, the support package includes EUR 9 million for sports and sports clubs, EUR 6 million for national and regional sports organisations and EUR 3.5 million for assistance and support for sports events. This represents a total of EUR 18.5 million. Of course, this is a large sum in terms of millions, but surely there is a small and insufficient amount for these operators. Let us hope that they get away with this and are able to move young people and, at the same time, competitive sports are getting off to a good start. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u156	Thank you. — Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u157	Mr President! In the cultural and event sectors, many operators have been left almost without income when falling between different support schemes. There is still a risk that the interest rate subsidy will not be sufficiently targeted at those operators whose losses have been greatest during the pandemic. However, the excellent report by the Committee on Finance requires a statement that the granting of interest subsidies will also cover those who have not previously been eligible. Many small entrepreneurs need support. For example, a small entrepreneur who earns a living from music expects support and the possibility of starting work. Mr President! It is good and good that this amending budget takes account of the cultural, sports and event sectors that have suffered from corona pandemics, which have long been in distress. It is important that, with this package, the professionals of art and culture continue to be taken care of so that they can cope with this crisis. We all need culture, the food of the spirit, so the survival of the industry deserves to be taken care of. Mr President! They've heard about the need for art and culture. I believe that this aid package, which totals approximately EUR 225 million, is an excellent indication that the result will come when the messages in this area are listened to in the most detail and prepared accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u158	And Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u159	Mr President! Like the hotel and restaurant sector, the event sector is the business sector that has been most affected by interest rate restrictions. The losses have been enormous when the whole industry has stopped like a wall. All the conditions for doing business have been blocked by a government decision. These exclusion and restriction measures concern a huge number of professionals in different fields. It would have been logical that the State should also fully or to a reasonable degree compensate for the losses and damages it has caused. For example, in the case of municipalities, interest rate losses have been very generously compensated, even overpaid, but for some reason the scope of the event is not valued in the same way as the public sector. This is very difficult to understand. Events workers and entrepreneurs also need regular incomes to cope with their daily expenses. The cultural trade unions have called for the correction of the shortcomings in the corona restrictions. The petition was made by the Musicians' Federation, the Arts and Culture Trade Association, the Theatre and Media Workers' Federation and the Actors' Association. According to the organisations, inequality in terms of interest rate restrictions has continued throughout the crisis period. Other sectors will now be opened up to facilitate the situation in accordance with the exit plan. The organisations demand that the arts and culture sector be treated equally. Mr President! The opinion of the Event Industry Association opens up the specific nature of the sector and highlights the lack of attention to the different companies and entrepreneurs: ‘The activities of the Events Industry sub-contractors are based on the fact that the field of events in the co-operative sector is not exclusive to the contentsectors. And vice versa — music clubs, festivals, summer theatres, sports events, fairs, business events, seminars and markets need the services of the entire sub-contracting network as well as highly specialised expertise from individual factors.” In the event sector, it is felt that the dismantling of corona restrictions has started in an unfair way. The musician Paula Vesala’s social media update wondered why hundreds of people are allowed to go to Korkeasaari Zoo to see the monkey, but if the performer is a musician, the audience is limited to six persons. Admittedly, it is very difficult to come up with any reasonable justification for this. The report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states: ‘Although there has been no direct Mr President! My hometown of Tampere is known for its wonderful events. Music festivals such as South Park, Sauna, Tammerfest and Blockfest mean customers and revenues for hotels, restaurants, taxis and shops. The employment effect is significant. It is important to make the event sector predictable and secure when the situation begins to normalise after the corona crisis. It should also be borne in mind that, in the event of cancellations of events, the situation of sub-contractors belonging to a large ecosystem of events — individual business names and single-person companies, professionals or freelancers — is very bad. This needs to be corrected, and this needs to be corrected immediately. Mr President! I support the motion of censure and the proposals for statements made by Mrs Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u160	Like this. — and Mr Koponen Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u161	Mr President! This event guarantee is really long awaited. I remember when this was discussed in the Committee on Culture and Education at the beginning of this year, and it is now quite clear that it is already unhelpably late, but on the other hand it is good that it is now even now being brought in. There are many other areas where these restrictions have lacked that coherence and this principle of necessity, and these have been difficult for the public to understand. It is very good that we are now investing in children and young people. It is estimated that as many as 25,000 children have quit the hobby in the last year. This brings with it a lot of physical and mental problems, and it may be that we, unfortunately, will be paying for a long time, which means that this issue must now be tackled immediately. It has been calculated that the price of immobility in Finland is billions a year. So, just work, then. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u162	Thank you. — and Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u163	Mr President! The second amending budget of the year contains a long-awaited support package for the cultural and event sectors. In practice, interest-rate restrictions have prevented cultural operators from doing more or less for more than a year. Over the past year, EUR 250 million was used to support actors in the creative sectors. However, this has not been enough to ensure that all operators receive the support they need. It is also clear that too many operators have been missed. Freelancers in particular have been in a difficult situation and there is a major emergency in the sector. I am therefore very pleased that this large aid package now takes account of the diversity of the sector. Within the cultural sector, it is important that operators in different sectors are treated equally. Art and culture are supported by a total of EUR 127 million, of which 65 million are grants to professionals, business names and sole proprietors in the field of art and culture. In practice, this means that the aid package doubles the support for freelancers at once. In addition, the sports sector is supported by EUR 18.5 million, and this is particularly important for children and young people in order to ensure their leisure opportunities. I would therefore like to thank the government for giving this package to Parliament and the committee for allowing us now to deal with the report. Mr President! At the same time, it is clear that no aid can fill all the gaps financially, let alone replace the cultural experiences created by the interest rate and the restrictive measures. Korona has stressed how important culture is to all of us. The longing to experience living art together is great. Musicians, actors and other professionals also have a great need to get back to work. The amending budget includes an appropriation of EUR 80 million for the implementation of the transaction guarantee. This encourages the planning of events despite the uncertainty caused by the corona. It is important that the cultural and event sector can be opened up when the corona situation seems to be calming down with summer and vaccinations. The restrictive measures decided have not treated the various sectors in full balance. In the opinion of the Left Alliance's parliamentary group, it is neither right nor reasonable for the cultural and event sector to have long been targeted and to continue to be subject to stricter restrictions than other activities at similar risk of infection. And just as yesterday's report required by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in the context of the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, the Government must endeavour to correct the biases of restrictions — and hopefully the hybrid strategy to correct the bias and other necessary guidelines and legislative changes will soon be brought forward. Mr President! Fokus should increasingly be translated into how safe events can be arranged. We need to find new ways to enjoy culture and art in a corona-safe way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u164	Like this. — and Mr Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u165	Mr President! We are now dealing with the event guarantee and support for the arts, culture and sports sector. Of course it's a good thing that this kind of support is now coming, but of course it's kind of like late. This has come from good perspectives on different issues. I could open this up a little bit myself. I could say that I am the father of a top athlete, and that top sport in Finland is in some way in the hole at the moment. The annual grant of the Ministry of Education and Culture to a Finnish top athlete is currently EUR 6,000, and there is already a lot of evidence to get this kind of support. Due to the smallness of this, many sports clubs have then sought to support these top athletes by raising funds, and here comes such a multiplier effect now that these events have been cancelled. In my region, the Province, Tango Market and Ilmajoki Music Festival have been cancelled. Very often there have been sports clubs in these areas to raise funds for that sporting activity and perhaps to support these top athletes. This support for Finnish top-level sport is very far-reaching, and now that there are no such events, these sports clubs are also in a very vulnerable position, and it is not easy for clubs to support top-level sport if the money has not even been obtained. Then it has been said that a large number of children and young people have stopped moving or sports during this period. With that in mind, you can only hope that it will go on the same path as it has been before. However, mobility will cost our society a considerable amount. Well, then, how do you distribute the money to these sports clubs? This is probably very unequal, depending on the skill of the sports clubs in which the applicants for funds are going to acquire them. It has been so far that not everyone in sports clubs may even have the skills to apply for them. I would like some clear guidance to be given that the process would be quite simple so that they could apply for these subsidies. Indeed, as has already been pointed out, it has been a rather unusual situation if a football match could not have been followed like a handful of people and then, on the other hand, a large number of people have been allowed to follow it through a video game in a nearby restaurant. This corona is a difficult issue, and we just have to try now to break it so that all sport is protected and events are also safeguarded. Yes, as has come out here, it has affected very many such individual soloists and performers. In particular, I would like these bodies, which have not received any support, to receive some kind of guidance and guidance to enable this to happen to them, and also to take account of these sports clubs, which have lost their funding because of these cancelled concerts. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u166	Congressman Kiljunen Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u167	Mr President! As has been said here in several speeches, the arts and culture sectors are the main sufferers of the corona epidemic, since most of the players in this sector have been without job opportunities for another year. The fact that many freelancers, among others, have changed or are considering it was also highlighted in the expert hearings, and a large number have been left without subsidies despite the various forms of government support, and this is a major concern. As has been said here in several speeches, the actors involved in the arts and culture sector, but also these actors and the difficulties of events, are a common concern for all of us, whether we are protesting or not, but in any case our common concern. And now it is good that the government has now taken these problems into account in this second budget and brings more than EUR 200 million, EUR 220 million, to add money to this problem. The second issue that has been raised here — which has been raised again — is the problem of the social security of these artists. It is also lacking in the committee's own report. It is now important that we finally get the social security deficiencies of artists fixed and, therefore, that their life situation be clarified. Good speeches have also been made here — I am referring, in fact, to Mr Koponen's speech just now. As he said, the Committee on Education has on several occasions dealt with how difficult the situation of cultural, sporting, artistic and cultural actors has been and how in schools or in general, physical activity or immobility has affected the situation of children and young people. That is why it is now very good that the government is also giving resources to sports clubs and sports clubs, and precisely that these resources will be increased to exercise and sports clubs to ensure that the activities continue in order to bring back those who are not involved — exactly the same as Mr Koponen and several speakers have said earlier. At the same time, funding will also be provided for national and regional sports organisations specifically for the development of skills, including guidance and training for those in need of special support, and incentives for young people to move on their own. And here, too, I have to say, when I listened to Mr. Mäenpää just now — I myself have been strongly involved in local sports organisations and raised money and built up
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u168	Yes. — and Mr Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u169	Mr President! There is a second amending budget this year and it contains a lot of needed resources and corona support for culture, sport and the field of events. A total of 225 million euros will bring relief to many cultural artists and sports organisations and clubs, as well as trust to event organizers, as this will include an 80 million euros pot in the event guarantee. Resources will also be added to the cost support of companies in order to compensate for the costs of restaurant closure. As a result of this pandemic, the cultural and event sector has been in very serious difficulties. In the EU, it has been estimated that the cultural sector has been most affected by pandemic restrictions since the aviation sector. I myself have received a number of messages from cultural artists and workers who, of course, understand the seriousness of the situation with regard to the pandemic, but also express a great deal of concern that the work and, as a result, our own earnings have ceased. There has been support for this sector in the past, but a great many have, for various reasons, been missed. That is why it is important now to mobilise these subsidies quickly, with particular attention being paid to the diversity of the cultural sector and to the various forms of work, such as job employment, self-employment, self-employment, self-employment, freelancer and activity. Due to the diversity of the sector, there are numerous needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u170	And Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I just got off the phone with Ilmari Halinen, Chairman of the Raviseura Association of Riihimäki. I called him about something else, and then we moved on to this corona situation. This call was about a really bad case like this. After all, this racetrack is run there by an association, and they really do have volunteer activities. At the moment, the restrictions are raging and they are not even able to hold training raves. So this case concerned the fact that there the club maintained the racetrack, when they have to keep it open and they do not have enough staff, has been such an animal protection case — really unfortunate. Here I also send thanks to the person who had intervened, and this colt was then saved in that sense, and the person was punished. That's very reprehensible. The horse economy is extremely important to us. It is employable: it is estimated that about 15,000 people are employed around the horse economy — transportation, feed production, clothing production and race sports themselves, which is a large part of it. His greetings to the government were such that now try to make some sense of this, that you could have raves outside. However, it is a priority for this owner of the restaurant and the horses that the horse can function where it is acquired and trained, i.e. in the races, and they usually occur outdoors. There I looked again at this calendar of events — it has been necessary to cancel events because there is no record of any restrictions. I don't know, Mr. Harakka must have come here for something else, but could he say hello now that what's the name of this thing, that you could even get a proper kick out of it? We have a wide range of such associations that have to work on a voluntary basis, as has been highlighted here. It is really sad that we have very important areas that work on an association basis, and there people voluntarily do these things in addition to their own work, and we should guarantee funding there. This was my message from Riihimäki Raviseura ry that now try to make some sense of the limitations of getting to work outside. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u172	Like this. — Mr Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u173	Mr President! I also took the floor on the subject of physical activity, because it is so important and close to my heart. The plight of sports and sports is now reflected in the corona age and probably also in the future as a welfare debt. Many children and young people have been excluded from the company during this pandemic. Let's talk about tens of thousands of young people. There is a risk that, especially for young people, the situation can become permanent and that they will no longer return to sports and social activities after the interest rate. It would have long-term effects, not only at individual level, but also at social level. Physical activity has been supported in the past, but not as much as many others in this situation, but now this amending budget will add EUR 18.5 million to physical activity. EUR 9 million will be allocated to sports and sports clubs, EUR 6 million to national and regional sports organisations and EUR 3.5 million to assist and support sports events. The faster normal sports and sports activities resume after the corona, the better we will be able to minimise the negative effects on children and young people and promote their well-being as a result of exceptional circumstances. Then I share the concern which also exists with the representative. Mäenpää was here to present top-of-the-line sports, to finance top-of-the-line sports. It is also, of course, a challenge in the interest rate period, but the challenge in the future is also that it is predicted that the revenue of Veikkaus will be reduced, and in that sense I think it is important that in the future the funding of sport and physical activity will not be reduced, that it will remain and preferably rise, because it will also have a major impact on people's well-being and health. The funding of sport must be guaranteed. And what is said about top-level sport, then we have room for improvement if we compare funding for top-level sport with neighbouring countries, and that too needs to be addressed. And, of course, today, there is little to be said about the fact that many top athletes need to focus on the acquisition of sponsors. They do well, they do well in social media and they get good followers. Even a middle-level athlete, who is a good social person, can get real good income and do well. Then again, athletes at the top of the world live from hand to mouth in another sport, and it is difficult to get sponsors. We should be able to take these into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u174	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Now we can reserve 30 minutes for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Just now, Minister Harakka was needed, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u175	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Transport Services Act is now under discussion. The aim of this proposal is to ensure the smooth flow of heavy goods traffic and traffic safety at border crossing points between Finland and Russia. This proposal would consolidate the pilot project on the pre-booking and queue system for freight transport started in 2014 in Vaalimaa. The experience of the experiment was positive. In order to consolidate the system of pre-booking, a legislative amendment is needed which should be made to the Act on Transport Services. A new provision on the control and management of freight transport at road border posts on the eastern border would be introduced. A pre-booking service would be provided by a road traffic control and management service provider as part of its task of ensuring the smooth running of traffic. The service provides time for customs and border controls. The presentation allows the collection of data by automatic identification of the information system, registration number or other unique identifier at the border crossing point and in the parking area adjacent to it. A road traffic control and management service provider would act as a controller and could process and release personal data through a technical connection or otherwise electronically to Customs and Border Guard. Such personal data would include, inter alia, the registration number of the vehicle, other unique identifier and country of registration, the driver's first and last name, telephone number, information on the time when the reservation concerning the crossing of the border was made and the time of arrival and exit from the parking lot. Since the purpose of the information system is to ensure the smooth operation of border traffic, the data should be deleted after the vehicle leaves the border crossing point. I hope that the proposal will receive a positive response from Parliament so that we can take these measures to facilitate the crossing of the freight transport border. The intention would be to bring the law into force during the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u176	Like this. — And now the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u177	Mr President! The proposal before us would allow for the extension of the system of pre-booking and queues for border traffic. Such a system was already in use on an experimental basis at the Vaalimaa border crossing point from December 2014 to April of this year. However, this proposal would allow the system to continue to be used in Vaalimaa, and at the same time it would also be possible to use it at other road border stations between Finland and Russia. Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to ensure the smooth flow of heavy goods traffic and traffic safety at border crossing points between Finland and Russia. The proposal therefore concerns professional transport, not passenger transport. In the beginning of the 21st century, there is a problem with tens of kilometres of truck queues at the Vaalimaa border crossing point and its nearby road network. It was therefore considered necessary to streamline border traffic. During the pilot project, the pre-booking system under discussion proved to be an effective solution for this purpose. In practice, the advance booking system works in such a way that the driver makes an appointment online, at the telephone service, at the vending machine or at the customer service point. If the time has not been booked in advance, you can make a reservation at the parking lot service point either at the appropriate time or in the so-called live queue. The system acts as an automatic traffic controller in the parking area so that drivers can be invited to customs measures or border checks. The system has been found to be good, as it will help to offset heavy traffic volumes, reduce queues, streamline traffic and increase road safety. It is also in the interests of transport companies and drivers, as it improves the predictability of transport and facilitates, for example, the planning of driving and rest periods. In addition, the advance booking service reduces the need for long-term use of truck parking when there is no need to queue in the same way as before. Mr President! As a Member of Parliament coming from the eastern border, I myself consider this project to be important. It is good that it would be possible to use the system at other border crossing points in addition to the election country, if there is a need for it. At the same time as streamlining border traffic in the area of heavy goods transport and freight transport, the proposal aims to clarify the responsibilities of the various actors in the management and management of cross-border traffic and in the processing of data. In addition, the system will be extended and its development and automation promoted to allow automatic identification of registration plates and other identifiers. It is also important that this proposal ensures that personal data is processed in accordance with current data protection requirements. Mr President! We will take this motion properly before the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u178	Great. — and Mr Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u179	Mr President! The smooth flow of border traffic is important for the development and well-being of both South-East Finland and Finland's economy as a whole. As a Member of Parliament in South-Eastern Finland, I am constantly following this traffic in everyday life and I have also seen the truck queues — like other representatives in South-Eastern Finland — that were still there just over ten years ago in south-east Finland. After all, friends, the reality was that from the border to Luumä, there could be a line of these trucks. They clogged you, and the drivers spent days in line there, and then there were all sorts of things, as you can imagine. And the worst part of this was that the traffic was not going well, but the goods and the economy were standing on the border. Well, now the problem has been solved with merit, and it was this experiment that proved to be workable, and I would like to say straight away that this government proposal, which makes this experiment permanent practice, seems to me to be an excellent thing and one can support it here from the opposition. A few questions come to mind. Could this system of reservation and automation for cross-border flights also apply to passenger traffic at some point in time? Many may not know, but when the normal Finnish-Russian border traffic runs, the queues for passenger traffic are quite substantial and people will have to wait at the border for hours to cross. It would be good to improve on this too, of course. Further: when border crossing points are developed, this will then come to every border crossing point between Finland and Russia, so that all places will certainly be treated equally? And perhaps I would ask the Minister if there is any information: What type of information system is it possible to obtain? Now this experimental system, which itself has proved to be effective, is certainly a good one, but technology has developed along the way and certainly makes it possible today to achieve solutions that are far more sophisticated and productive than those of the past. Let us hope that these are taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u180	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u181	Mr President! This bill is, however, more than acceptable. Here Mr Kopra well described the situation that it was before this experiment began. I myself have had more than 20 years of experience in driving a combination of vehicles and taking four trips on the Russian side as well. In practice, there are so many elements for road safety and everything else when there were tired people hanging on the wheel and unable to fall asleep, so to speak. The worst situation for me too was that I spent more than two days rolling around there, sometimes on the side of the beloved eastern neighbour and returned to Finland when they thought I had forbidden goods. But of course we cannot influence these Russian border control practices, but it is desirable that this should be put into practice as soon as possible. I must say that a few weeks ago, when Minister Haraka and I talked about this, that we are going to do these periodic extensions, we are not going to do this now, but obviously this is coming to stay, and I think this is very, very good. I believe that the industry is also in favour of this being put forward by the committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u182	Like this. — and Mrs Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u183	Mr President! Thank you very much to Minister Haraka for this presentation of the government's proposal. This government proposal has indeed been welcomed and missed in that south-eastern Finland, especially that border between Russia and Finland and that of truck traffic. In this regard, the South-East Finnish MPs have already mentioned in their own speeches the challenges that existed in the early 2000s. I'm sure the President has noticed them in his own municipality of residence and in the surrounding areas. [The President : Yes! ] That is why this government proposal is really wanted and missed. I personally hope that this will also be introduced at all the border posts, at the border crossing points. Of course, Vaalimaa and Nuijamaa are the busiest border crossing points at the moment, and although there are currently no such lines of trucks, I believe that those truck lines will come back at some point. After all, the fact that these border crossings have been close to those so-called truck parks, such as those near the Election Land, and they were not cheap either. I think some EUR 20 million went into a truck park — the one truck park — where there was an area for about 400 trucks. And especially the fact that those trucks were on the side of the road was also a road safety issue or, in fact, a road safety issue. There were also many accidents. It is very good that this functional pre-booking service, which has been experimental in the country of elections, is now being consolidated. It reduces queues or completely removes them from the vicinity of border stations, and by extending the service, customers can be redirected to the South-East Finland border stations evenly if necessary. There are plenty of signposts there so that trucks can also move to the right places.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u184	Come on, let's go. Let's go, let's go, — Representative Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u185	Mr President! We have a proposal from the Government for a law amending the Act on Transport Services, which envisages a pre-booking service for the border crossing point between Finland and Russia, which has already been tested. I do not now have very recent information about this, but I have been working at a transport company in Russia in the '90s, and I remember when, as I remember, the truck queues were at their longest 21 kilometres back then and some drivers had to spend several days in such a quietly groveling line. That this is certainly a good and desirable thing in that sense. But what is of concern at the moment — Mr Torniainen has just expressed the hope that this truck transport will eventually return to the extent it has been — and what I am really worried about is what is being exported from Finland to Russia, whether it is transit traffic. Picking up, transporting cars from Hanko, cars from Europe, through Finland without any road charges. And what do they bring? It is clear at least now that thanks to the actions of this government, wood and peat are imported into Finland. It may be good that the government makes this kind of solution that is this kind of pre-booking service that they continue with truck queues that carry peat and wood here to Finland to be burned... After all, it's absurd to drive a pick-up to Kokkola near St.Petersburg. You are doing real climate works in it when you do this — peat is hugely polluting and can no longer be burned, but it is really ecological when you bring peat near St.Petersburg to Ostrobothnia with a truck. This is insane. But now let's hope that those Russian drivers don't have to wait in line there, just as the Finnish drivers have had to wait in line. A Finnish truck driver is a disappearing resource when it is allowed to drive Russian cars in Finland without any road charges. You could pay attention to this, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u190	Thank you. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u191	Mr President! Now that the Minister is here, I would particularly like to thank you for this bill. This is just what's needed in a situation like that when those long lines of trucks are there. I myself was in a situation where people who wanted to move forward were calling from there. They didn't have a truck, but they were waiting on a bus there. I think this is very good, and the chairman of the committee and the people of the committee will then take a good look at all the details, but the main principle is very much to be welcomed. In this context, now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask, when there was a little talk of how, for example, this is a cabotage situation at the moment. At the time, it made a great deal of noise to get those cabotage charges and these, but is there any progress? I have just come to Mr Kopra to ask him when he represents our group on the transport side whether there is any sense in that, because it is very remarkable that it has not been resolved. It was always the Ministry of Finance, which was kind of overwhelming, and they couldn't find that model, but I'm asking. Then the second was when it was agreed that this winter tyre requirement was precisely for all of these who come from there to Finland because of the accidents that happened so much. What is the situation at the moment? And one more question I'll take with regard to this corona. According to the information I received, there was a lot of refusal of testing at the worst stage of the disease. It was precisely because it is, of course, voluntary — I understand that too — and when it is precisely these professional drivers and drivers who do not have to take part in these tests. What do you think, Minister, that because we have so much going on at the moment — we are going to have intia and we will have some kind of variant — and yet when traffic comes, we will be able to test it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u192	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u193	Mr President! As has been said, this fluency in border traffic is very important and it is good that the government is now taking effective action in this area — and this is therefore a good proposal. So now that we have a minister here, I would like to take this opportunity to expand this debate on this border traffic a little. This queue system, its digitisation and networking is a good thing, but how else? Are any other development projects under way, for example with regard to the digitisation of transport permits or the electronic transport document? I understand that the Russians are very interested in developing and promoting these digital cooperation systems. On the Finnish side, what is the readiness to make transport permits, for example, electronic? I could almost say to this cabotage issue that if we had such a digitalized transport licence system, then we could solve this cabotage problem, because then we know exactly who is moving where — we know what is being carried in these cars, and then, if necessary, we can agree between the states on the charges for these services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u194	Like this. — Before the Minister, Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, this government proposal is certainly to be welcomed, because even if the amounts are small, in any case these will make it smoother and, in reality, then drop idles and other extra jobs to ensure that the borders go smoothly. Of course — and this is a lot of talk about — the number of truck racing that once existed is past times that will certainly never come back, that, of course, in the sense that there is little point in exubering this case, but in the truth this is extremely good. Of course, I can't help but thank you. The good things that Mr Mäenpää has said about many things, and I can only agree with that, which is why the Russian trucks are actually driving and consuming our highways without having to pay us any compensation for it, because it would make sense to interact if it were the other way around, but there is hardly any.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u198	And Minister Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u199	Mr President! I waited here for when we could reach Belarus in this chain of talks, but not quite there. I will now answer a couple of questions relating to this government proposal that is before us. Passenger traffic was asked if this would reach there. In fact, in 2015 a similar advance booking system was tested for passenger transport and, according to my information, this proved to be unnecessary at the time, and the experiment was immediately terminated. There is also a different situation with regard to the processing of this information than with regard to professional drivers, because when the data of professional drivers is processed there they are in a professional role, but when a civil person, i.e. a person, comes to the border as if for other purposes, then the processing of their personal data is highly accessible to the protection of personal data, and I believe that there is a very different legal issue here. So the answer is that it obviously does not exist here. As such, there is no obstacle to extending this system to other border crossing points, if it is considered necessary because it has now moved from the Ely of South-East Finland to the Fairway Agency — or at that point to the Finnish Transport Agency and then to the Fairway Agency — and now from there to Fintrafic Oy, which is a limited company and therefore no longer in official duties, and that is why these responsibilities have to be clarified by this legislation, but in this way, in a way, the product can probably be carried out elsewhere. There were quite a few broad questions about cabotage. As far as the EU is concerned, we have finally come to a conclusion with regard to the mobility package which, in many ways, improved the position of Finnish transport staff in relation to the EU's internal arrangements, but we always have a question of our own: this action by third countries outside the EU, in which, however, they require at least the same treatment as that which is required. Finland engages in other foreign activities and then becomes its own challenge. Just briefly, the role of the transport staff in this corona. I would very strongly like to say that, despite all its blunderings, the EU has had a coherent and functioning Green Lane line which has ensured that, in these exceptional circumstances, we have had excellent transport operations in the European Union, undisturbed and surprisingly high volume, and that has, of course, been extremely important for us, an export dependent country. And we have no evidence that the supply chains have come from the transport sector, so it is still in our interest and also in the public health interest to maintain a system in which professional drivers and also bus drivers have been exempted from these certification requirements.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u200	Yes, thank you. — Two more speeches have now been made, and at the same time the time allotted for this is running out. But if you can talk in a minute. — Representative Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u201	Mr President! Minister Harakka raised that issue with Belarus, and I can't help but comment on it now. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Let's stick to the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u205	Yeah. — And now Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there was talk just now of that passenger car traffic, that it would have been extended to the passenger car side, and the Minister said that 2015 has been tried. I would just like to remind you that in this six-year period there have been all sorts of heads-ups and other things, and people are quite a lot — even their own development in six years has been pretty big, so it might not be bad if we tried again. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u207	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. In a recent way, a maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u208	Mr President! Concerns about safety and environmental problems caused by the growth of road transport go beyond national borders. International cooperation is therefore increasingly important in promoting transport and environmental safety. Vehicle roadworthiness tests are an important part of ensuring road safety and, at present, environmental friendliness. The Vienna Convention is an agreement under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, which regulates the conduct and mutual recognition of surveys between the contracting countries. The Contracting Parties shall ensure that the provisions of the Agreement on vehicle safety and environmental aspects are taken into account in roadworthiness tests. Finland has been party to the agreement for exactly 20 years now, but our neighbouring Russia and Estonia are also involved in the agreement. In recent years, the Vienna roadworthiness test agreement has been amended mainly as a result of developments in vehicle technology. They concern periodic surveys of electric, hybrid and gas vehicles. As a result of these changes, the roadworthiness tests would be subject to new inspection sites which would increase vehicle safety. These changes would therefore contribute to road safety and to the climate objectives of transport. However, changes in citizens' obligations or in the prices of roadworthiness tests would not affect. The entry into force of these amendments would also facilitate international transport and transport activities. The acceding countries to the Vienna Convention have committed themselves to mutual recognition of roadworthiness tests carried out in the States Parties. This means that there is no need to demonstrate the ability of the vehicle to drive separately in another contracting country. One of the priorities of the UN Economic Commission for Europe is transport. The Commission's working groups are planning a regulation that takes better account of road safety and environmental concerns. It is therefore important that: The amendments to the Vienna survey agreement will also be taken into account at national level. The Government has submitted a proposal to the Parliament to approve the amendments to the Vienna survey agreement and to enforce the agreement. These international obligations should now be duly accepted and enforced in Finland. Mr President! With these proposals, we respond to developments in international survey regulation and promote road safety in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u209	Like this. — and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u210	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for presenting the Government's proposal and giving us this proposal here to work on in the Committee on Transport and Communications. Mr President! This proposal proposes that Finland approve the Vienna roadworthiness test agreement, i.e. the agreement on the approval of harmonised conditions for periodic repeated roadworthiness tests for wheeled vehicles and amendments to the mutual recognition of these tests. Finland is committed to the Vienna survey agreement with 15 other countries. Thus, the amendments made to the agreement are already in force in Finland, but it is important, for the sake of clarity of the legal situation, that they are adopted and enforced in national law. The amendments made to the agreement are largely of a technical nature and concern mainly the definition of the agreement and the electronic international roadworthiness certificate. However, it is essential that these changes facilitate cross-border transport and transport operations by electric, hybrid and gas vehicles. The new standards 3 and 4 added to the agreement contain specific provisions relating to periodic roadworthiness tests for electric, hybrid and gas vehicles. With the new standards, the periodic roadworthiness tests for these vehicles would be subject to new checks to increase vehicle safety. These would include, for example, the vehicle’s electric power train or the gas system. Enforcement of these changes would contribute to road safety and the climate objectives of transport and would support the wider use of alternative uses in the future. However, these changes would not have an impact on the time frames and prices of the survey. There will be no new obligations or measures for citizens. Nor will there be any significant economic impact on the survey companies. However, they should obtain an update of the information system produced by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency to take account of these contractual changes. Mr President! The Vienna Convention is an international agreement under the auspices of the UN Economic Commission for Europe, which regulates the mutual recognition of surveys in the countries that have signed up to it. The four standards contained in the agreement regulate in detail the content of the surveys. The test certificate shall serve as proof that the vehicle complies with the requirements of the standards. Finland has committed itself to the agreement in 2001, and our neighbouring Russia and Estonia are also parties to the agreement. Therefore, changes in the contract would facilitate cross-border traffic to Russia, for example, as vehicles tested in Finland meet the requirements for Russian roadworthiness and do not need to be demonstrated in any other way. This is why contractual changes promote the activities of Finnish companies that engage in transport activities in Russia or whose business requires movement in Russia. Mr President! We have already taken this proposal before the Committee on Transport and Communications and we will, of course, take note of the debate in this Chamber today. After that, we will properly deal with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u211	Like this. — And now the vice-chairman of the committee, Mrs Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u212	Mr President! This afternoon we discussed the national transport system plan, Transport 12. In this Chamber, as it should be, it was unanimously agreed that road safety is an important issue and that transport routes should be in good condition, but if we can get those transport routes in better shape, as the wish is and the will is, then those cars will be on the road. Yes, road safety is also an extremely important issue, and of course it involves annual inspections to ensure road safety, and roadworthiness testing is also an important part of it. The fact is that the world is developing and the technology of cars is also developing, new types of propulsion are constantly increasing, electric, hybrid and gas vehicles are increasing. It is an inevitable fact and progress is being made. In this context, it is important that, above all, the safety of cars is also ensured. The way it is ensured has an important role to play in testing stations and surveys. There will also be new types of propulsion, probably new engines, new types of fuel, and that too should be taken into account in the future. As far as I am concerned, this is the result of this and has not yet been taken into account at this stage. Of course, this also means that there is a need for more training at the testing stations and at the survey staff. This is not necessarily the task of this government's proposal, but it causes it at testing stations, and companies also have to train their staff sufficiently to ensure that their expertise is at the right level. Personally, this government proposal is very good. As the chairman of the committee said, the committee has already dealt with this issue and we are moving forward quickly. There will probably be some minor incisions, some things that the report will take into account, but I personally hope that this will move forward together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u213	Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u214	Mr President! First of all, of course, I would like to thank the Minister for his good presentation and also the speakers for his excellent contributions. — The adoption of this agreement therefore provides a legal framework for the development of harmonised surveys in the States Parties, which has been accompanied by 16 parties. The purpose of the agreement is to promote road safety and protect the environment. It is important that, with the adoption of this proposal, the amendments made to the agreement are now adopted at national level and put into effect at the same time. The amendments to the Agreement are of a technical nature, including the definition of the Agreement and the electronic format of the international roadworthiness certificate. I particularly welcome the fact that the amendment of the agreement seeks to harmonise the regulation of the agreement in relation to the regulation of the EU survey directive, for example with regard to the content, timing and subject-matter of the periodic surveys. In addition, the amendment of the agreement to the periodic roadworthiness tests for electricity, hybrids and gas vehicles would create new areas for vehicle safety inspections. It is important to point out that these changes in the contract do not result in significant financial costs for the survey companies. However, survey entrepreneurs must obtain an update of the information system produced by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. All in all, the amendments to the agreements are to be welcomed and facilitate international transport and transport activities, for example, for Russia. The terms of the agreement are already in force internationally for Finland, but this proposal now approves them and implements them nationally in order to remedy the legal situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u215	Mr. Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u216	Mr President! It is a pleasure to see that, in practice, this matter was presented three times today — but that is it. I wonder if it has ever occurred to you that this Vienna agreement could also be accompanied by the possibility that, when we recognise the roadworthiness of another person, it could be done so that we could also take a look there in another country. If we accept the cars tested in another country here in our traffic, then we will also accept their ability to do the roadworthiness test there. However, there are quite a lot of cars in Finland and Finns that have to be imported into the country, even because they are visited, and then they leave again. It could be linked to this good performance. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u217	Yeah, and this is going to...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u218	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. Here, too, a maximum of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — Secretary of Defense Kaikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u219	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Committee on Defence has not had very many legislative proposals during this parliamentary term, but there will be some, and here is one. Yes, there have been other tasks, so that even in that room there was no need to rest on laurels as such. This is a matter of amending Article 6 of the Military Discipline and Crime Prevention Act in the Defence Forces and Article 6 of the Grey Financial Clearing House Act and Article 31 of the Border Guard Administration Act. The primary objective of this proposal is to ensure that the rules on military discipline are up-to-date, taking into account the problems identified in practical situations following the entry into force of the law. Firstly, the proposed amendments aim to ensure better enforcement of criminal liability in the Defence Forces. In particular, the powers proposed to the Chief Staff to initiate a preliminary investigation, irrespective of the disciplinary officer's measures, and to supplement the rights of access to pre-trial examinations would improve the current state of the legislation in this respect. The proposed provisions on the initiation of a pre-trial investigation would also free up the resources of the staff of the disciplinary superiors and the department of staff, as the examination of the conditions for the pre-trial examination of more demanding cases could be carried out by the Legal Department of the Headquarters. If necessary, a decision on the submission of a preliminary examination could be taken directly by the Legal Department of the Chief Staff, which carried out the so-called preliminary examination, without the decision being formally delegated to the disciplinary officer. These proposals for amendments to launch a preliminary investigation would also improve the independence of the Defence Forces' pre-graduates. In some cases, it may be considered problematic from the point of view of independence, in particular the fact that part of the duties normally assigned to the investigation director are carried out by the direct military commander of the suspect. Mr President! The aim of the proposal is also to improve the efficiency of the use of public authority resources, including through cooperation between the authorities. The provision on official assistance to the Defence Forces from other pre-trial authorities would clarify the current legal situation and enhance cooperation between the authorities. The purpose of the amendments on exceptional circumstances and serious disturbances in normal conditions is to ensure that the Defence Forces are able to enhance the investigation of military crimes in the event of an increase in military defence capabilities. The purpose of the amendments is to ensure that the scope of the specific provisions on exceptional and normal conditions is unambiguous and comprehensive, with sufficient powers available in all models of preparedness. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1.7.21 or, if this is not possible, as soon as possible thereafter. It is, of course, up to parliamentary timetables. Mr President! This may sound a bit like baton, but it does make sense, and I hope that the committee will deal with this carefully and properly, as is undoubtedly the case here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u220	Like this. — And then Mr Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u221	Mr President! Let's continue with the baton language. — — — — The changes proposed in the Government's proposal aim to ensure better the implementation of criminal liability in the Defence Forces. I think this is the background to some kind of stickyness of the Defence Forces to take up criminal and disciplinary matters. It is clear that: The Defence Forces have a different structure and culture from civil society, and this must be the case because of its defence nature. How can you, Minister, see whether there are features in this culture and environment that make certain acts easier to ignore than in civil society? And then there is the second point: Yle raised the internal problems of the Defence Forces in the MOT programme more than a month ago. I think you've already commented on this yourself then, I'd recall. According to the MOT programme, a strong hierarchy of the Defence Forces leads to difficulties or even impossible interference in the performance of the upper level. Crimes and even lawlessness are hidden, and if they are missing, you may find that their career development has been broken. I personally do not believe in this, but how do you, Minister, see? However, it is quite difficult for legislation to deal directly with this, but in what way Within the Defence Forces, we could take forward and make this activity more transparent if the legislative measures prove ineffective?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u222	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u223	Mr President! I would just like to ask the Minister briefly: how can you see whether this threshold will be reduced by transferring the matter to the police or moving it further away from the investigation carried out by the immediate superior? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u224	And Secretary Kaikkonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u225	Mr President! At the top of the hill: this is hardly going to change very much, the role of the police remains quite similar to what it is today, but it is good for the committee to go through this even further. To Mr Ronkainen, who is also the vice-chairman of the committee, I would say that this law will help to make possible abuses, let alone crimes, more likely to be investigated, in that sense this will improve the current situation. With regard to the programme you referred to: I then had a discussion with the Commander of the Defence Forces and stressed that both the rules and, of course, the laws and practices and culture must be such that the Defence Forces do not fall under the carpet, but it must be possible to bring up abuses and investigations, and if there is a case, then there must also be sanctions. I would say, however, that these things have come to light. If you are thinking about the debate in recent years, there are quite a few things that you can say, even with the highest leadership of the Defence Forces, and I think there is still something in the process right now, so there are quite a few examples — a few too many, I could say, because of course I would like to see the organisation working in such a way that there is no need for qualifications. But when it comes to an organization with 12,000 people, there can also be misdemeanours and abuses, even crimes, and then they must be dealt with properly. In my view, this bill will improve the current situation to some extent. But it's all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u226	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u227	Thank you, Mr President. The past academic year has been exceptional in all Finnish comprehensive schools. The Korona virus has forced the provision of basic education by means of temporary regulations. In spring 2020 the Government adopted implementing regulations on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education. In Finnish comprehensive schools, teaching was mainly carried out at a distance in order to safeguard the health of pupils and teaching staff and the general population. In accordance with the Government's resolution of principle a year ago, the use of pre-school and basic education facilities is governed by measures in accordance with the Act on communicable diseases. As the objective is that the preparedness law no longer needs to be used in the management of the epidemic, the Government is already preparing for the academic year 2020-21 by issuing two different government proposals that allow for exceptional educational arrangements. Temporary legislation will be in force until the end of July 2021. The Government proposes to Parliament that the provisions corresponding to the legal status be extended for the 2021-22 school year of comprehensive schools. The Koronavirus situation in Finnish comprehensive schools is fairly good. The rates of infection have remained moderate, and statistics show that there are hardly any further infections in primary schools. As a general rule, there has been a shift to remote access arrangements due to exposure, which means that students or groups of pupils have been quarantined. Although the situation in primary school is reasonably stable, it should be taken very seriously. As the corona virus continues to progress in unpredictable ways, the government prepares for the academic year 2021-22 of basic education by submitting a government proposal which would allow the organisers of education to move to exceptional teaching arrangements in the next academic year, if the infected situation so requires. The aim is to provide a flexible response to the communicable disease situation from local sources. The Government proposes a temporary provision for the Basic Education Act and the Helsinki European School Act in line with the laws in force until the end of July. During exceptional teaching arrangements, teaching could be arranged as distance education. The laws now under discussion would provide for exceptional teaching arrangements, which would allow for, for example, rotation between local and distance education. Legal changes are temporary and distance learning is not intended to be used any more than is necessary for the corona virus situation. Exceptional arrangements could be introduced if the space used to organise education was partially or completely closed under the Act on communicable diseases and education could not be provided safely as local education at school or at another place of education. The education organiser should cooperate with the local or regional infectious disease authority in assessing the safety of local education and the need for exceptional teaching arrangements. Vulnerable pupils would continue in close-up education next academic year as well. Exceptional teaching arrangements do not apply to pre-school pupils, pupils from the first to third years of basic education, pupils who have received special support, students from extended compulsory education or students from preparatory education. The purpose of this government proposal is to prevent the spread of the corona virus, mitigate its disadvantages and ensure the safe provision of education under the Basic Education Act for the academic year 2021 to 2022. The Government wants to ensure that every person who starts his school work in the autumn has the right to free basic education also in the current case of infectious disease. The proposal also aims to safeguard the right of the most vulnerable pupils to receive basic education even in exceptional teaching situations. As Minister of Education, I have received proposals to add distance education to the law in force for the time being. The experience of distance lessons last spring shows that a small proportion of students also benefited from distance learning. However, long distance learning periods increased the need for support for learning and created a risk of exclusion from education. The Ministry of Education and Culture monitors the impact of distance teaching periods on the right of children to receive basic education. The aim is for the laws to be in force from 1 August 2021 in order to ensure that education can be organised as safely as possible after the summer holidays. It is essential for the planning and organisation of school activities that the proposed legislation be put into effect before the start of the autumn semester. Finally, I would like to thank Parliament and the representatives of its committees for their flexibility and cooperation on existing laws in the summer and autumn of 2020. I am also asking the representatives for the same spirit of cooperation now, so that every child's right to receive basic education safely can also be achieved in all situations during the academic year 2021 to 2022. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u228	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u229	Irade fru talman, Madam President! At first, I can say that we do have a willingness to cooperate and we want to support this proposal. This is the third time that this law has now come into this Chamber so that it is possible to move on to remote education in exceptional circumstances, and this would now apply to the whole of next semester. I think this is a very good thing, and the interest rate is still in our society, although I think it is improving all the time, and vaccinations will certainly have an impact on this too. However, the starting point should always be that a child or young person is in close - up education at school, but we know that in March, for example, there were over 80,000 children and young people in distance education. This has been challenging for both students and staff, teachers and so on. In general, the Digiloikka has worked quite well in Finland, but admittedly there have been large differences within cities, within municipalities, but then there are lessons to be learned here. I believe that our study materials are also developing quite a lot along the way, and there should be follow-up. But there has also been hybrid education, and it is admittedly quite difficult for a teacher to teach both at school and then at a distance. This is indeed a challenge, and the child in particular is the one who is suffering. In other words, either local education or distance education.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u230	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this proposal. Of course, we are familiar with this case, because this is the third time that we will continue to do so. I think it is very reasonable that this should be continued and that there should be a little longer time in it so that you do not have to bring them constantly, because this basic need for this implementation and introduction of legislation will certainly remain here for some time now, depending of course on how these variants affect Finland, the virus variants, but also, of course, on how vaccinations are progressing. In any case, just as Mr Ollikainen said, we have, of course, been hearing this throughout the course of the corona, i.e. since the beginning of last spring of this period of distance education, both those good experiences and those bad experiences. Efforts have been made to tailor, and I know that the Ministry of Education and Culture has also followed these studies on how distance learning has gone. It has gone well at times, depending on a little on the schools and also on the knowledge of how to prepare for this. Of course, we have so many learners: some like distance education, others don’t really learn there. Then there is the concern of these so - called care students about how student care plays for those who may have the only dependable adult there in school. That is why I fully understand that concern. We are now starting to consult on this and, in fact, there have already been some initial consultations today. Of course, there is such a common will to take this forward and achieve this opportunity. There, some time before — and I am not talking about this hearing — there arose from experts that it would be possible to vary slightly if, for example, parents wanted a child to be in remote education, even if otherwise it would have been concluded that this age group is not in remote education, or if there is, for example, a very serious sick person in the family, a very risky person, would it be more reasonable for the child to be at home and not to go outside. That is what I am predicting, which I am sure will also be weighed up in this debate. All in all, bringing this legislation into force for a longer time now is absolutely essential when we cannot know what will happen during this autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u231	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u232	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for presenting this important amendment to the Act. We have learned a lot along the way, and as our chairman, Risikko, said above, these experiences are also being taken into account in this legislative process. The current Basic Education Act is based on the provision of local education. And now that the situation has been different for a long time, it is important that there should be opportunities to do things differently. Of course, the disease situation in different parts of the country is very different, and the situation in different schools in the municipality may also be different, and individual solutions are sometimes needed. The starting point should therefore be the best interests of the child. For teachers, it is important to enable decision-making powers to be exercised in different circumstances in an agile manner. At the same time, when we look at the future, it is important that we can agitate the decision-making system, dismantle silos and streamline the decision-making process. We have received a lot of initial information about the effects of corona on children and young people. In the future, we need deeper research into how children and young people have learned and how their well-being or nausea has progressed during such an abnormal situation of corona. Of course, many research projects are already under way and are under way, but there is certainly also a need for cooperation between the Nordic countries, because different countries have had different strategies and the disease situation has also progressed differently in different countries and school arrangements have also differed. That is why I ask the Minister: is there a lesson to be learned from this crisis in the Nordic countries so that we can work even deeper with the other Nordic countries during the coming crises?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u233	And Secretary Saramo, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u234	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the good speeches. There is close cooperation in the Nordic countries and at the European level as a whole. After all, there is already a huge amount of research data, but it is noted that in different countries, for example in distance education or local education, the results have been quite different – we have different schools and different climates and different ventilation systems, and so much has happened so quickly that it has been quite difficult to rely on data other than the data we have available in Finland. And THL has, of course, been very, very carefully on this issue all the time. They have experts who have been following schools all along. But I believe that next autumn we will also have very good information from abroad that can be used in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u235	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u236	Madam President! As a result of the corona virus epidemic, the provisions of the Vocational Training Act on how to demonstrate skills and skills, i.e. how to implement evidence and assess skills, have been relaxed by a temporary amendment to the law that entered into force on 1 July 2020, which will remain in force until the end of July 2021. According to the main rule, skills and competence are demonstrated by performing practical tasks in real work situations and work processes, i.e. on screens. However, this general rule has been relaxed by the temporary amendment in such a way that skills and competences can be demonstrated by carrying out other practical tasks which as far as possible correspond to genuine work situations and work processes where evidence of the causes of the coronavirus epidemic cannot be carried out in real work situations. According to the current regulation, the competence displayed on the display can be complemented by other assessments of competence, such as written or oral tasks. The starting point for using another assessment is that the professional requirement is such that it cannot be assessed on the basis of evidence. This general rule has also been temporarily relaxed so that the skills shown on the screen can be complemented by other competence assessments, also for reasons related to the corona virus epidemic. The aim of these reductions is to enable skills to be demonstrated and qualifications to be completed, including in the circumstances of the corona virus epidemic. At the same time, however, it is important to ensure that skills and competences can also be properly assessed and verified in exceptional circumstances. The working life must be able to rely on an appropriate assessment and verification of the skills and skills of the qualified person. Studies show that the number of screens and credits has decreased slightly during the corona epidemic, but, as a general rule, it has been possible to promote studies. According to the studies, the majority of training providers have used the existing reductions at least to some extent and consider it necessary to continue the reductions. The most challenging situation has been in the service sector. Other critical areas have been education, technology, health and well-being, trade and administration. The Government's proposal under discussion proposes that the temporary amendments to the legislation on vocational education and training be extended for a further year. The limitations can only be applied for reasons related to the corona virus epidemic and therefore their use is bound by the fact that the organisation of evidence and the assessment of the evidence of competence have become more difficult for reasons related to the epidemic. If there are no such reasons, this can not be used; knowledge must be assessed in accordance with the main rules laid down by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u237	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u238	Madam President! As the interest rate situation began, quite a few of us were able to think that the plague would still be a nuisance for us today. The situation has made life difficult for all of us, but students in particular have suffered a lot. Now, in this proposal presented by the Minister, there is a change in one of the key areas of pain, skills and skills of professional students. According to the main rule of the current situation, the displays must be carried out in vocational studies by performing practical tasks in real work situations and work processes. This is absolutely appropriate, but in these exceptional times we need to streamline the situation so that the students can survive. No one's graduation must be caught up in inappropriate regulation. During the time of the interest rate, the implementation of evidence in genuine work situations and processes has been particularly difficult and even impossible in some areas when jobs have been closed and where there has been a high risk of infection. The temporary provision in force allows evidence to be provided through other practical tasks which as far as possible correspond to the genuine working situation. Jobs must continue to be able to rely on skilled and qualified staff from schools. Everything must be done in such a way that there are graduates from educational institutions who have the capacity to move to an ever-changing working life, and that students also have the necessary qualifications for further studies at some point in their careers. This should also be taken into account in apprenticeship training. Yesterday, at the JEDU meeting, I heard that interest rate subsidies have been used, for example, to set up small groups, so that students who have had difficulties making progress during the course of the interest rate have received very specific and intensified support. Such tunings have certainly taken place in different parts of Finland. This is a temporary provision and contributes to the progress of studies in abnormal circumstances and is an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u239	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u240	Mr President! This legislation, which now seeks to prepare itself for this interest rate situation as well, and that it continues here and then needs to continue with the legislation already in place in the field of vocational education and training, gives it more time, is very much to be welcomed. This is precisely the question of the fact that, in vocational education and training, when there are these evidences and skills assessments and the need to be able to demonstrate that know-how and, on the one hand, to ensure but also to develop it, and these genuine work situations are not succeeding because of the interest rate, then the possibility is given that these evidences and other practical tasks, which cannot be carried out in such an authentic situation, can be carried out as well as possible in situations where work situations and work processes are as genuine as possible. And then there is the possibility that, if necessary, the opportunity has been relaxed to complement the skills shown on the screen with another assessment of competence. In this legislation and in this proposal there is an impossible attempt, because at the moment there is quite a lot of concern among students about the progress of studies and also about their graduation, and then they also have such fear that when they complete this degree during the corona period, does the employer trust their knowledge? There are also mental - health problems, anxiety, which can then really be escalated to be very bad, which, in turn, requires student care measures there at the same time as this concern exists. However, just as the Minister said there and Mr Kinnunen said, it is important to ensure the skills, because working life must be able to rely on the degree that the person who receives from that school must be qualified for its competence and these levels of competence have been examined. It is particularly demanding in the services sector, as the Minister said. The social sector is one where it is difficult to get to the airport and to work in practice because, for safety reasons, it is not possible to take too many outsiders and then, of course, there is a lot of work at the moment. I trust vocational schools and those teachers to ensure that the way in which it is carried out is certainly valid and valid and that knowledge can certainly be ensured. And, of course, for students to exercise and patience. However, it is better for you, ladies and gentlemen, to have proper skills, even if it takes a little longer, because then it will carry on in the future. And that is also the subject of the school’s reputation for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u241	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u242	Madam President! The government proposal under discussion concerns the so-called "open data directive" being implemented at national level. The aim is to implement the requirements of a recast Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on open data and re-use of public sector information in so far as they are not currently met by existing legislation. The recast Open Data Directive replaces the earlier Directive on the re-use of public sector information, i.e. the so-called PSI Directive. The existing regulation has defined common practices for data re-use and processing of requests for information and ceilings for fees to be charged. The directive, which has been rebuilt, contains clarifications of the way in which it operates and, in some respects, completely new entities. The most important of these are the regulation of dynamic data from valuable data sets, the regulation of research material published in the repository and the regulation of information by publicly controlled companies in the field of services of general interest in certain sectors. The proposed regulation is based on the minimum level set by the Directive. Regulation would not affect the public access to documents, nor would it oblige undertakings or research operators to release new data sets. The proposal proposes to amend the Publicity Act and the Information Management Act. It is also proposed to introduce two new laws on information for certain publicly controlled companies and publicly funded research material. The proposal includes proposals for general regulation of so-called valuable data sets, which should be available through interfaces and free of charge. However, a list of valuable data sets and more detailed provisions on their re-use arrangements would arise in the Commission’s implementing acts. We have not had any legislation in place during the practical preparation process, so there is no precise information on the timing of their adoption either. Obligations on valuable data sets would potentially have significant implications for certain authorities. However, these effects have not yet been assessed during the preparation. The evaluation shall be carried out separately when the implementing provisions are available. Open data and re-use of information can generally show many positive impacts in society. The proposed regulation will support ongoing positive developments in the area of the opening of information. However, its independent role is difficult to assess in advance. In the course of the preparatory work, no data material has been identified that would have an obvious and immediate impact on the use of regulation. The directive must be implemented by 17.7.21 at the latest, and that is why we are here today in Parliament. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u243	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u244	Madam President! It's the last of the evening here. In accordance with its programme, the Government has prepared a proposal for the reform of regionalisation legislation. The Act would provide for the organisation of the availability of state services and the general objectives for the placement of government units and functions, as well as for the national planning and coordination of them. The proposal implements and promotes the guidelines of the strategy for the renewal of regionalisation, which was completed in spring 20. The law sets out general objectives that will guide the future presence of the State in the regions. The objectives must be taken into account in the decision-making and planning that influences the availability of state services and the investment of state units and functions. Legal objectives would primarily be to perform the State’s tasks effectively and to ensure that the availability of customer service meets the needs of different customer groups. In addition, the vitality, security and state competitiveness of the regions as employers will be strengthened. In order to achieve the general objectives, the law would provide for a national plan to be drawn up on a government basis, which will create a cross-border overview of the state of availability of government services and the location of services and activities and their intended development. The plan will guide the state authorities in the decision-making process that is theirs. The Ministry of Finance would provide support for the planning, monitoring and coordination of the institution. The institution would have representation from all administrative branches and also representation from the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities and the National Pensions Institute. Mr President! The biggest change to the current situation is that instead of the placement of state agencies, the need for people to provide services and the presence of authorities across the country will be examined in a broader and more long-term perspective. The aim of the proposal is to move away from the point-by-point approach to coordinating the placement and closure of individual units and activities and to create a new approach for more effective and long-term cross-sectoral planning, guidance and monitoring at Government level. Co-ordination at Government level will be extended to cover, as a whole, the availability of state services throughout the country, in addition to the central government office network. The aim is also to steer the state’s digital and physical service network better and more strongly as a whole. The proposal provides a legal basis for steering the integration of the state's physical and electronic service structures with the objectives of regional presence. The same overall planning for the availability of state services and the location of operations has never been done in the form presented before. A change in thinking is thus significant. The proposal will allow for a more proactive and long-term steering of the regional presence of the State at a more strategic level. The plan would be compatible with the budgetary plan. Mr President! From the point of view of the status and equality of citizens, the proposal creates a permanent legal obligation and process to examine the demand for, supply and availability of state services and to set guidelines for the Government level in this respect. The process itself can be seen to have positive effects from the perspective of equality. Condensing and comprehensive coordination and monitoring will prevent, inter alia, risks of unplanned gradual erosion of the service network. The reform is important for the administration's customers. The common objectives of the multi-channel service network, based on a shared picture of the situation, can contribute to better access to shared government services for customers. The national plan, which also includes the Social Insurance Institution and the representation of municipalities, strengthens the cooperation of the public administration. It is hoped that the law will enter into force on 1 January 22, so that the law can be applied already during this reign. As soon as possible after the adoption of the proposal, it is planned to start preparing the draft national plan and launching the work of the intersectoral body supporting it, the Cooperation Group on the availability of State services and the location of operations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u245	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u246	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, Minister Paatero, for the introduction. As an old mayor, such regional administrative services are always of interest. Although this is a major change on the basis of a presentation and, of course, regionalism and linguistic rights are raised here, I would suggest that they will be taken into account. But I would ask the Minister what kind of feedback came during this consultation, and how has it changed in this performance in the final games?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u247	And Minister Paatero, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-26-ps-65.u248	Thank you, Mr President. In this particular area is seen this kind of appropriateness quite strongly. And the idea that we have a coordinated view of all state services — here there are 12 different bodies and, in addition, the Association of Municipalities and the Social Insurance Institution — that is to say, together we can see where they are located. It has to be said that many of us, including the rapporteur, are committed to the measures we are currently taking forward with regard to the diversity of government employees, for which guidance has been given today, to the strategy of travel, which was actually published yesterday, and to our network of services, the status strategy of our buildings, which we hope will be published next week, and this as a whole will then guide the better services for those citizens. And these questions about accessibility and, in fact, linguistic rights are a good opportunity to improve because when we can guarantee that each region has one unit,
