ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The proceedings were suspended at the last plenary session held today. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 25/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general discussion will continue in a moment when we receive the list of names. — Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u2	Madam President! As heard, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health today finalised its report on the government's proposal for a corona passport and the extension of the entry rules for corona. In committee, we had extensive consultation with experts and various actors in society. In particular, the corona pass has stimulated debate both in the media and between citizens and politicians. It is clear that, despite the corona, despite the epidemic, we need to open up society. It is good that we have such a temporary instrument, but it is desirable that it should be used as little as possible. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore stresses the importance of vaccination coverage in the fight against the epidemic. During the committee's expert hearings, we also heard a report on how many people are unable to take the vaccine for health reasons. Of course, it should be noted that a coronapass can also be obtained if you have had corona disease or have had a corona test and have had a negative result. According to a report received by the committee, less than 1% of non-vaccination is due to medical reasons, although the proportion may vary from one age group to another. Even though this is a very small group of people, the Committee considers it important to ensure that they also have access to a corona passport. The committee therefore proposes that they be given an equivalent right to a free-of-charge interest test with 16 and 17-year-olds. It is important that, if necessary, we have a thorough examination of the draft laws in Finland by the Constitutional Committee. The Constitutional Committee has delivered an opinion on these amendments to the Act on communicable diseases. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the proposed regulation is relevant to a number of fundamental rights and, in particular, equality. However, according to the committee, there are acceptable criteria for regulation. It should be noted that the aim of the corona pass is to enable the safe use of services and thus to promote freedom of trade and also cultural rights by opening up society and keeping them open — as an alternative to stricter restrictions. It is precisely the interest pass that is used as an alternative measure only and only and only when there are restrictions on the event or the holding in question. Such restrictions may include restrictions on opening hours or audiences. The passport does not force anyone to take the vaccine, nor does the passport concern basic services or, for example, grocery stores or religious events. Mr President! I appreciate that now that we are discussing this corona passport and this whole government proposal, we are talking about what this proposal actually contains and actually contains. I particularly welcome the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was able, inter alia, to take account of the situation of under 16-year-olds in the referral debate, and the age limit for the corona passport will be 16 years. The reason for this is, for example, that it would be unreasonable to require a child to undergo several tests, for example, on a weekly basis because of a frequent hobby. The Committee stresses the right of children to play and recreational activities according to their age and to participate freely in cultural life and arts. In practice, the requirement for a Koronapass for children over 12 years of age could pose significant obstacles to children’s leisure activities and recreation. The committee also points out that the government must prepare without delay the changes that will enable third-country persons to be admitted to events and events with the health certificates required to enter the country. The Government's proposal for a corona passport is very specific in terms of content and validity. The law is in force until the end of this year. There's a deadline for everything, including this one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u3	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u4	Madam President! Temporary provisions on the national use of the EU digital corona certificate, i.e. the ‘corona pass’ discussed here, will be included in the Act on Diseases. The basic objective of regulation is to enable the safe use of services and thus to promote freedom of business and cultural rights by opening up and keeping open the functions of society as an alternative to stricter restrictions. It must be remembered that the corona pass is an alternative action and only in use when restrictions on the event or space in question exist at all, and such restrictions may include restrictions on opening hours or audiences. It is also noteworthy that the regulation of the corona passport is intended to remain in force until 31 December 2021. The role of children and the relationship between legislation and children and the way in which it deals with and implements children's rights was an extremely important issue in the committee. In its entirety, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has emphasised the right of children to play and recreational activities according to their age and to participate freely in cultural life and arts. In practice, the requirement for a Koronapass for children over 12 years of age was seen to create significant real obstacles to children’s leisure activities and recreation. Many 12-year-olds may not yet have a smooth access to the electronic identification required by the corona passport. That is why the committee unanimously decided to increase the age limit laid down in Article 58i(1) to 16 years. In addition, the committee pointed out, in my opinion, in a very proper way, that access to an electronic ID card entails costs for a young person and his family, and it also takes a long time for the police to obtain it. In addition, the use of an electronic ID card for identification requires a computer and a reader, and not all families have access to this on the basis of economic criteria. In order to enable minors who are subject to the obligation to present a corona passport to have effective legal access to a corona test for the purposes of the corona passport, the committee proposes a new Article 58k. It states that the municipality must organise, free of charge, the covid-19 testing required to obtain the corona certificate referred to in Article 58i(1) for children aged 16 and 17 who have not received a complete series of vaccines within the meaning of Article 16f(1). In principle, the committee notes that the change in the increase in the age limit will extend the number that will also be allowed to take place in the future and will allow children to be children. The health barrier to taking the vaccine was a matter of great debate, and quite rightly so. The EU Regulation 953/2021 regulating the EU corona certificate does not recognise such alternative certificates for persons who, for medical reasons, cannot take this covid-19 vaccination, and according to a report from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the EU Regulation is based on the premise that three different alternative certificates in accordance with the Regulation — the certificate of vaccination, the negative test, the certificate of the disease — can also guarantee equality of citizens in situations where, for one reason or another, a person cannot receive vaccination. In other words, the estimates here that the committee did not take this issue seriously are not true. We have also very carefully assessed this whole. From the point of view of regulation and functionality of coronapass, the committee has considered it a clear shortcoming that the Omakanta service does not currently have a full series of vaccines available to a person who has been infected with covid-19 and therefore only received part of the vaccine series. Of course, the committee, as a whole, also took the statement in order to ensure that people were equal in this respect. For people travelling from outside the EU to Finland, we are currently facing challenges in terms of the spread of the corona in relation to these people who come into longer-term employment relationships or stay longer in Finland. It is a big question how we can get them into the vaccine and ensure that the disease does not spread widely in large workplaces, as has been seen here through a number of examples. Understandably, there has been a very tough debate on entry regulation, and precisely on the basis of whether the package can be monitored and evaluated and proportionate to the measures and measures required for the regions and operators. At least in this situation of corona pandemic, it was also noted that it is good to have this possibility for another test in the toolbox, but there has been a wide-ranging discussion that targeting would be best and proportionate in that sense when these tests are targeted at risk groups. As far as the power of regulation is concerned, I would say that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health started by saying that the regulation should be based on an overall assessment that takes account of the differences between the different regions of the country, and the wording of the section does not therefore mean that countries and regions are directly limited according to Finland's incidence rate, but that the provision allows the threshold of incidence to be set below the Finnish incidence rate, but the discrepancy must not be significant. In the view of the committee, the Government must adopt a new regulation on this matter immediately. — Mr President! Here's what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u5	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u6	Madam President! With its own inaction and slowness, the government has made this corona passport unnecessary. This is an unhelpably late presentation. [Base Finns Group : Yes! ] This proposal has also been made in haste and, according to many experts, it does not correspond to normal care in drafting the law, and perhaps this is one of the reasons why it is so short in term. This proposal does little to help event organizers or tourism, because it is too short in terms of duration. Vaccination coverage in Finland improves every day, and it is time to open up society to normal activities by improving and accelerating vaccination protection, not through a vaccination pass. I understand that the situation is such that both vaccinated and unvaccinated can spread corona disease. Korona is a serious illness. It's not the flu. It's also a deadly trait. I had a chance to meet a person, a healthy person, a middle-aged man who had received a corona. He was in ICU for 125 days, 80 days in a coma. Three times his heart stopped, three times he returned to life. Finally, through a miracle, literally, he returned to this world. Korona is a serious matter, which is why this debate is also a serious one. It should not be seen as political, but it must also be recognised that we have not quite succeeded in this treatment of the interest rate, especially in the last six to eight months. If the vaccines we were offered as a nation had been acquired and the quantities that were offered to us with a quick delivery had been purchased and the vaccination had been organised better, Finland would have been fully vaccinated for those who wanted to in June. Now November is getting closer, and we are still not on track.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u7	I can see that there is a small willingness to do so, but at this stage I will give the floor to Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u8	Madam President! We are dealing with the amendment and temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, which relates to the corona passport and then to border security. The Corona Pass was presented by the Assembly as early as last spring, but the government did not tackle it at that time, and now we are unfailingly late, as has already been pointed out. However, we believe that this corona passport should continue to be regulated, because it will enable us to keep society open if restrictions are imposed, and even now there are restrictions to which the corona passport could bring relief. In this government proposal, the age limit for the corona passport was set at 12, but the committee's deliberations were well-founded on the basis of expert opinions and opinions from other committees, which showed that the age limit was raised to 16 years, as is the case at the external borders. This is also strongly linked to the equal treatment of children and the right of children to participate in hobbies. Demanding a Koronapass would also have been very difficult because children do not have access to Omakananta, at least for younger people, because there is no electronic identification, and if parents were negative about vaccinations, the child would be in conflict if he wanted to participate in hobbies. And let it be pointed out here that, for example, if a child goes into hobbies several times a week, he should undergo tests every 72 hours — an impossible thing. So it's a very good thing they brought this up to 16 years of age. There are also other problems with the interest-rate certificate in this proposal: Persons coming from outside the EU can enter the country in the light of full vaccination protection or other conditions laid down there, but then, at national level, Finland could not take part in coronapasses under the same conditions. It is also not possible for people who have been infected with covid and who have received a single vaccination to receive a corona passport, nor for those who are unable to take it for health reasons. That group is small, but it would be justified for them to have an entry in the Kanta service to allow them to use a corona passport. It would also be important to allow other vaccinations to be included in the coronapass if the THL in its expert opinion considers it possible to do so. These are the problems that this corona passport raises and which we have raised in the protest of the Assembly. In the objection, we also propose amendments to the section, and one of our amendments relates to this requirement for another test for tourists, namely that it should be removed. The government parties themselves wanted it to remain there. However, according to the experts, there is no justification for this, and the opinions of the other committees would also have supported the deletion of the requirement for a second test, which is to say, in our clause, that this second test should be deleted. Then we also have a proposal that, alongside the EU digital corona passport, certificates from other countries can be accepted if they can reliably demonstrate that they have received the vaccination series elsewhere. Then again, a Government Regulation could provide for another acceptable vaccine, and for the Government Regulation, THL should issue a separate opinion. I am sure that the most topical issue here is this Sputnik vaccine, which, in the opinion of the THL, would be justified by its inclusion in the corona pass. Mr President! We have therefore tabled these motions for amendments to the section. We also have proposals for statements, which we will then vote on later. It is important to get Finland open and continue along that path, while taking into account adequate health safety. This bill is only valid until the end of the year. With regard to the Korona Pass, it would be justified to extend the law for next year, i.e. if, for example, the situation deteriorated again next spring, then the possibility of a corona pass could be introduced. Now these had been lumped together, the corona passport and the requirements for border measures, in which case this is only valid until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u9	Now we are going to start a little debat, and I would ask those Members who wish to use the debat to reply, to stand up and press the V button. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u10	Madam President! So it is not timely, not necessary, but a number of problems relating to equality and practical implementation, as has been heard here in many speeches. The debate in public has intensified. People who do not take the vaccine are stigmatised and discriminated against. In relation to smokers, even if not to mention overweight people would never be allowed to have the kind of conversation that is now taking place about the individual’s own responsibility to prevent this disease. It has been said that this will encourage you to take a vaccine. I don't believe in that either. I don't think this will encourage anything at all. On the contrary, this obsession with driving a passport increases distrust, fierce beliefs and conspiracy theories, which are already quite sufficient, that is, the polarisation of society. I don't think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u11	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u12	Madam President! In the actual speech, I will look at it a little more thoroughly, but for this 1 minute I will concentrate on the message that I received from the University Hospital in Turku four hours ago and which was very worryingly told that at the moment the number of corona patients in the ICU has risen sharply and that it is starting to hamper the already more demanding surgeries which will then have to be postponed. The message was sent by Petri Virolainen, hospital manager of TYKS, and it is also available on the MTV website. This is very important because the unvaccinated share in the ICU is 90%. If we look at a population over 12 years of age, which is about 5 million, the proportion of people vaccinated is more than 80%, and then among those who are seriously ill, the proportion of people who are not vaccinated is more than 90%.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u13	Congressman Schoolman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u14	Mr President! This issue of individual ownership in the fight against corona was raised quite well, and I think that is a good question. We all know how much money the Finnish taxpayers have now spent on this fight against the corona, how many people have suffered, when they have been laid off and unemployed because of the corona, and how much human suffering this whole year and last year has caused, so now that we have managed to obtain free vaccination for all Finns, which is being carried forward like a tray, and it will enable us to open this society, to safeguard the adequacy of medical care for all citizens, it is quite a legitimate question, is it not, in principle, that every individual has to take the vaccine, to make some effort itself to combat the pandemic on his own responsibility and by his own actions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u15	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u16	Madam President! As well as the representative Mrs Lindén has just explained in her very excellent speech — and has promised to come back to this point, and it is worth listening to it as an expert — I too am surprised at this debate on the vaccine, when we all know that this disease is certainly a general danger. As we know about the University Hospital in Turku, so this weekend in the newspapers the doctor at Tampere University Hospital in intensive care announced: they are getting full seats. Think of it, if a person is in a very bad condition because of a traffic accident and there are these unvaccinated corona patients, healthy people have taken the place from others, then the person who has been in a traffic accident will not be admitted to treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u17	Congressman Koponen, Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u18	Mr President! As has been said here in previous speeches, the corona pass is indeed an alternative measure and a risk management tool for corona restrictions. And as Mr Lindén said earlier, we have a situation where the capacity of hospital care is becoming more and more strained by corona patients, and measures are needed to take responsibility for adults. We adults must bear the responsibility of allowing our children and young people to live in a health-proof way in this society and no longer to be subjected to any unnecessary restrictions that they have already had to comply with unnecessarily. The implementation of child health safety is always the responsibility of adults, and this passport is an excellent alternative to that. I would also like to say that a young person between the ages of 12 and 15 most often needs the support of an adult in decisions relating to him and that this passport also serves as a good guide, especially in the case of young people of a sensitive age, between the ages of 12 and 15.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u19	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u21	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u22	Mr President! The introduction of a Koronapass is an excellent tool for keeping society functioning and allows restaurants, theatres, sports halls and other events to continue to operate in a situation where the epidemic situation has deteriorated and stricter restrictions are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u23	Madam President! The Constitutional Committee draws the serious attention of the Government to the fact that if the parliamentary procedure of the Government's proposals is not given sufficient and reasonable time, the proper execution of the constitutional function will be jeopardised. I would like to ask the Minister: this proposal was submitted to Parliament on 21 September. The next week was budget week, and then it was already last week. This corona passport was expected last year not to have had to close up, but it was not there at the time, and we know that there are many, many questions and ambiguities in this corona passport proposal, both between lawyers and between us as parliamentarians. On the other hand, when the border security proposal was urgent but the corona passport proposal was not, why were these two proposals stuck together in the same performance? Why not bring the border security proposal as a matter of urgency and then give a reasonable and appropriate time
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u24	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u25	Mr President! Representative Lindén here has just said that intensive care is running out in Finland. According to my information, we currently have 29 corona patients in intensive care, so they are not running out, not even close. — That is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u27	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u28	Mr President! There is a lot of discussion around this corona pass, and I myself have been contacted to find out what this passport is and whether it will come into force on Saturday. Indeed, there have been very good speeches here that this is not an automatic passport, which would come into force on Saturday on swimming pools, restaurants, playgrounds everywhere, but I would see this passport as possible, that is to say, when the restrictions are in place. Today, at the moment, in Satakunta, for example, restaurants could be the ones that would take advantage of this. By the way, there is a very worrying situation in Satakunta at the moment with regard to the interest rate — which I cannot underscore at all. With regard to the corona passport, it was decided to raise the age limit from 12 to 16 in the committee. This was also the recommendation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I do see this very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u29	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I regret that the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon, has still not arrived — this is very, very strange — but I will ask the Minister. This is now free of charge in municipal health care for people who cannot take this vaccine for medical reasons. How is it guaranteed that this doctor’s appointment is not subject to a charge? How can we guarantee that when there is a lot of traffic there, that they can get to the doctor? And what is this medical reason: for example, is it a serious fear, must he now go to long psychological tests? I think it is clear from the speeches made by the government parties, as Mrs Hoskonen said there, that this is a question of extending the scope of vaccination. A few weeks ago, this was granted by the Minister's Office. Minister Kiuru, can you really tell us now that this is a question of improving vaccination coverage?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u31	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u32	Madam President! I have to ask why the Finns of Peru want to delay decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u34	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I am very surprised, though, that the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon, is not here. I just read the news: ‘In the salmon, the decision to hold two tests was a disappointment for the center He continues:‘Preliminary basis for a second test. I am sorry about this, especially from the point of view of the tourism industry. Today is a pretty bad day for the tourism industry.” That is what the Salmon said. If Mr Salmon had not abstained from voting in committee, it would have been resolved differently with the President's vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u38	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u39	Mr President! Yes, there must be some confusion about this comment and action in both directions. First of all, with regard to this second test requirement, the THL itself has clearly stated in its opinion that there has been a significant change in the epidemiological situation and that this requirement for the second test after 3 to 5 days can no longer be considered necessary or proportionate to the resources required. I understand that there has been a lot of debate in the committee on this subject, but in the end the situation has really been reached that the majority of the parties in the government have resolved and then the chair of the committee, who has then abstained, has resolved with an empty vote that this demand for a second test will not be waived, although the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated that it should be considered in particular. Mr President! On the other hand, this is precisely next weekend, if this law were to go through this week, the restaurants could be fully open. Do the Finns think of entrepreneurs in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u40	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u41	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen spoke here and wondered about this debate on the corona passport. So do I. Mr Purra, who is going to leave here, made conspiracy theories in that speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u50	Congressman Wrist, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u51	Mr President! This practice will be discriminatory, you say what you say. This will in practice mean the need for vaccination. This will not solve the problems, but will start a process of unequal intervention in the development of private rights. If these vaccinations become annual, will this passport system be maintained? What's the result? Obsessed vaccinations of children. Moreover, as an alternative to restrictions, this creates very strange situations. For example, when this restriction on the number of persons or the place of customers is in force, it applies to all ages, unless it is a question of the place of distribution. If the operator then, as an alternative to restrictions, requires a passport, it only applies to these persons over 16 years of age and older, but it can be filled with them under 16 years of age. If so,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u52	Congressman Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u53	Thank you, Mr President! It is precisely this corona passport that will free up the business. If we have an alternative — if the situation gets worse, which none of us would certainly hope — we will have to impose more restrictions, then in fact we will have freedoms in them so that, for example, the restaurant operator can keep the restaurant open using this corona passport. This example of the external borders or the example of going abroad was all right, but when I went to Ireland, for example, where the situation has been difficult, the corona pass has been used so that restaurants and other activities may have been open. By showing the Korona Pass, you have been able to do business, eat at the restaurant, or go to other places of business, for example. I do not see the criticism here when it is not recognised that this precisely gives us a chance to return to normal. In situations where you cannot get vaccinations or have already had a corona, you can prove that everything is all right in the same way. So instead of restricting us?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u54	Congressman Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u55	Mr President! Let us clarify what this corona passport is all about. For example, Helsinki, Vantaa, Espoo and, for example, Varsinais-Suomi and Satakunta — at least, even Ostrobothnia was — are still subject to these stricter restaurant restrictions. Now, if the corona passport were introduced on Saturday, they could choose whether to introduce a corona passport and keep their restaurants open at full capacity and until five o’clock in the morning. That is what these entrepreneurs have been hoping to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u56	Thank you. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u57	Mr President! Mr Saramo's speech was like going back to stinky Impivaara, where it is imagined that lumping within four walls is the safest thing to do. Here Mr Kiljunen took, for example, a country where the passport was used, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is so unfailingly late that the majority of European countries have already given this up. Entrepreneurs don't want a passport, they want to get rid of the restrictions. Ladies and gentlemen, please travel to Europe and you will know what is going on in other countries. In fact, Parliament will soon be travelling to Denmark with the Nordic Council, and guess if a corona passport is required. Well, that's not required.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u58	Congressman Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u59	Mr President! This discussion of the government's proposal today has clearly had special features in the sense that the issue has also been raised here in the Chamber debate and we have also been able to read in the public eye that, since the preparatory debate in committee, the draft report has been completely unanimous by everyone that this requirement for a second test on tourism entry should not exist. That has certainly been very understandable, Mr President, because, for example, THL has long been making public the fact that there is no epidemiological justification in this situation for such a cumbersome bureaucratic procedure and it is totally disproportionate to the resources needed to set up such a procedure. This is a very hard and difficult blow to the tourism industry just under the Christmas season. I'll ask Minister Kiuru if this is something like this for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u60	Congressman Antikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u61	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that it is good to see that there is at least one minister in the ministerial box. In the beginning, when we started this conversation, there was not one. Mr President! Mr Juuso mentioned here earlier how this issue of corona passports was dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I am not going to go over the details now, because time is not enough and everyone can check them out from Mr Juuso's speech at a later stage and Mr Juuso can specify if necessary. However, after all this tumult, a representative and chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon, were already asked to apologise on the evening-sanos website.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u65	Congressman Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u66	Mr President! I will come back to that border situation in my actual speech, but in this brief reply I would like to address the fact that, when I and some others here were talking about the corona situation and its worsening at the moment, there was a cry from the right side of the Chamber that it had to do with the corona passport. Well, logic is quite clear. That is exactly what I quoted, the hospital manager of TYKS, Petri Virolainen, saying that they had seven corona patients in the 20-seat intensive care unit of TYKS — the second largest hospital in our country, the 20-seat intensive care unit — in isolation. If they come to the eighth, they'll have to move heart surgery, brain surgery and cancer surgery. In other words, when this corona situation gets worse, it inevitably means that we are obliged to introduce restrictive measures to a large extent in society, but if we have a corona passport, we can keep those activities in place and we will not have to.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u67	Thank you. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u68	Mr President! In Finland, the pro-vaccination rate has been quite high from an international point of view. In my previous speech, I referred to the fact that this government proposal and the inaccuracies of corona communication have themselves caused both those conspiracy theories in social media and the disbelief of people and internal polarisation of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u71	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u72	Mr President! First of all, I will respond to the debate on what is this international practice... [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne :Kiljunen,can I have a moment? — I ask you now to speak properly in this Chamber. I don't know if I'm allowed to hear these interlude calls, but they have to be fair. — Scream, please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u75	Secretary Kiuru, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u76	Mr President! Thank you for your insights. Let us start by highlighting the individual responsibility of Mrs Schoolman and Mr Koponen and the responsibility of adults. I thank you for these contributions because we very often think that everything is the responsibility of society. We may not be able to understand that individuals play an important role in controlling the corona situation, and it is therefore important that this be emphasised here. Mr Lindén and Mr Multala did a good job of crystallizing what the corona passport is all about, and I thank you for those contributions. I would now like to emphasise perhaps in the words of Mrs Lindén and Mrs Viljanen and a few others, who have raised this situation where we are: we think that we can keep society open, and there is no need for a corona passport if there are no restrictions. It is now the starting point for using the whole corona passport. But if restrictions are needed, i.e. the burden of intensive care and the burden of hospital care increases and there is a fear that the load limit will be threatened, then the restrictions will again come into use in society. People who are healthy ask whether these restrictions are necessary and proportionate in their lives, but now, more and more, they will be — precisely in the situation where they are really needed to ensure load and carrying capacity — extremely necessary because they are directed not at users of coronapass but at people who do not have that vaccine protection, so there is a great risk that the disease will also be sick. That is why the necessity and proportionality have now been assessed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I would like to say to you, Mr Purra, when we use a range of terms here — which is necessary, which is proportionate — that the Constitutional Committee also assessed the constitutionality and the compatibility of this proposal with fundamental rights, and there is no need for correction. However, it now tells the general public whether this is proportionate or not. Mr Meri asked about this free-of-charge and health criterion, which makes it impossible to take the vaccine. That is precisely why it has been considered that, in that situation, it is precisely proportionate that these tests should be free of charge, and that is the starting point of this proposal. First of all, there was criticism from Mr Laukkanen earlier on that he has been very slow and then, in this case, from his fellow Member, Mr Tanus, that he has acted very quickly. I understand that both questions can be raised at the same time. I would like to say that I myself have been given the task of adjusting the corona passport on 5.8., which was, by the way, a holiday day and my birthday. I think it is important that this has now been brought to Parliament, as it has been expected in a hurry, but I deeply regret the fact that we have to prepare for these things in society in such a hurry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u77	Thank you. — Then let us go to the list of speakers. Congressman Schoolman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u78	Mr President! I am in favour of this corona passport proposal. Its weakness is mainly that it is valid for such a short period of time. It must be extended until the end of next year in order to allow entrepreneurs and event organisers to plan their activities in a slightly longer time frame. I hope that this passport will encourage people to take vaccines, because, as Mr Lindén described here, the corona situation is not improving, but is, on the contrary,,, unfortunately, seriously deteriorating. There are more infections coming and medical care is under strain. If a person takes a vaccine, he will benefit himself. He's a lot less likely to go to hospital. The benefit of society as a whole is that most people take the vaccine, because that way we can safeguard the carrying capacity of health care. We have a long treatment line and a long medical debt during the corona, we have a lot of people waiting for medical treatment, cancer patients and such who are waiting for surgery. They are unable to get treatment when corona patients take up so much of these healthcare resources. We really must now safeguard medical resources and prevent it from being overloaded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u79	Thank you. — Mr Autto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u80	Mr President! Although these articles in the debate today are all provisional articles of the Act on communicable diseases, I too share the question of how two such different issues are dealt with here on an urgent basis in this way. Indeed, as has been said in many speeches, the corona passport would certainly have been useful precisely in a situation where vaccination coverage was much lower, and now that vaccination is practically available to all those who want it, the importance of this passport will certainly be less important, but I do understand that it still matters, and I think, Mr President, that it has been very well opened up in the debate, for example, that restaurants, for example, still have strict restrictions in place in several regions and also here in the capital region. Mr President! I would particularly like to talk now about these entry-related provisions of this bill. In Lapland alone, we are talking about breadwood that rises to a billion-dollar category, the source of people's livelihood. Income for thousands of people comes from the fact that the magnificent landscapes of our country, the clean nature, the clean air and the exotics of winter bring such experiences as products carried out by our skilled entrepreneurs that international tourists are really willing to pay for them. It really does not matter what the conditions and prospects for the future of the tourist industry are for this winter. In this respect, Mr President, I think that there is also a great deal to be said about the kind of signal that the government, by its own attitude, wants to give to people in the tourism sector and to entrepreneurs in the sector, how important we attach to the sector. The uncertainty created by this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases or, in fact, by the extension of the provisional articles of the Act on communicable diseases is certainly, precisely because of this uncertainty, even worse poison for the industry than the technical content of these articles themselves. It is really important to take this issue into account now that health authorities, such as the National Institute for Health and Welfare, which has been acting as the highest expert authority in the crisis throughout this period, have considered for a long time in their own statements and in their own public appearances that, in this epidemiological situation, it is no longer necessary at all to demand such a two-test practice at the time of entry, and that they see that this is totally disproportionate in terms of the use of healthcare resources, and this is, of course, the case. In view of the fact that these current restrictions on entry in the form of these test requirements relate mainly to the upcoming Christmas season in Lapland, it is very difficult to see that, firstly, these would be of any benefit to such tourism and, secondly, that they could be carried out in any reasonable way, let alone to ensure that these provisions are complied with. This is creating an excessively bureaucratic burden for businesses in the sector, but also for our health care, which would certainly have a far more important role to play in this post-pandemic process. Mr President! So I am not underestimating this danger of the virus at all, but when experts have found that this second test is irrelevant in this epidemiological situation, I want my own thinking to be based on the expert opinion. Yes, a practical empirical observation of Christmas tourism is that people who come to travel in nature, who move mainly between their own families and their own organized journeys among other participants, do not stay as one group, eat as one group, engage in activities as one group, pose any general risk of infection to the rest of the population. This is totally over-exploited and really harmful to the tourism industry, this regulation that is being made. Indeed, I consider this debate today to be a very special one, because it has really been suggested in this Chamber that these aspects of tourism have also been understood at this stage in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and that, following the preparatory debate, there would have been a complete consensus that this second test is not required, but now that this matter has changed somehow. Indeed, I would ask Mr Kiuru this question: do you have a particular problem of authority on this issue when it is not possible to act on the advice of the experts and obviously not as if the Committee on Social Affairs and Health had acted if the representatives had relied on their own judgment, unlike what it is now showing that the Parliament is deciding. Of course, we will be voting on this. Mr President! I am in favour of the changes in the section described by Mrs Laiho in order to make this reasonable. Mr President! I would also like to ask the other parties in the government, especially the centre, whether you really do not have any will of your own within the government. Mr President! At the end of this speech, I would like to say that, in particular, I think this is about recognising the importance of tourism for employment in Finland and, consequently, for the well-being of our country and that it is a truly important industry. Do we want to give the industry faith in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u81	Congressman Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u82	Mr President! It is good that I have been able to continue on this very subject, which I intend to talk about, because I can perhaps shed some light on it from a different point of view, but first of all I would like to say that I am no longer going to talk about the corona passport in this context. I think that is a good thing, and the best situation is if we do not need it at all, that is, if the epidemic does not get so bad that the restrictions will come, which will then trigger the situation in that passport. Let's go to this entry point. First of all, I would like to say that on 2 July, when we laid down the articles which are now going to be extended for another two and a half months in the proposal, we had a corona situation of 38 patients in hospitals and a incidence rate of 34. Today we have 180 patients in hospitals and the incidence rate is 138, which means there is nothing in today's circumstances that would be somewhat less severe than it was then on 2.7, when we adopted the existing regulations which we are now going to continue. It's a place where entry is actually regulated by seven different things. There have been so many of these that they have been discussed recently that they could be memorized from the morning, but here I have to briefly repeat: After all — as we all know, of course — the fact that you have received the two vaccines is a matter of one, or a disease of the corona disease, if it has not been more than six months. The third point is that it shows a rather recent negative test result. These are the three basic issues. Then we have decreed that countries with a very low rate of interest may come without presenting any of these, so to speak, to come directly to Finland without any proof. This has to do with section 16c and now there will be some new adjustment, so we will probably increase the incidence rates in these countries. Well, then we have such a situation that applies to all countries other than those that have just mentioned, that if there is one vaccine, then there is no need to take the first test at all or, therefore, show it a certificate or at the border to give it a test. Then we have the sixth situation, which is that if there are not the first three, then the test must be taken within 24 hours either at the border or immediately, could you say, in connection with it? And then we have the seventh issue of this second test, which concerns those who came to the country with a negative corona test or from whom the test was taken when they came to Finland. It is now clear that the second test adds to the certainty that the patient or person, the intruder, does not have the disease. It actually raises the level of certainty to about the same level as having received two vaccines. We have read that there were tens of thousands of counterfeit corona certificates in Sweden, among others. We have people coming into the country — I am not going to mention here, where no country will be stamped — from certain countries with very much counterfeit evidence. It is quite clear that we will be able to catch more people bringing the disease to Finland at the border if we use these two tests. We have now had quite bad coronas in large workplaces throughout Finland, especially in those with a lot of foreign labour. At the moment, the situation in a hundred municipalities has become so bad that the seventh largest central hospital in our country, the Satakunta Central Hospital, now known as the Sata hospital, is no longer able to cope alone with its own intensive care patients, but relies on TYKS in Turku, which then relies on HYKS for one patient in Helsinki, which is not at all good at the moment. Now, of course, we can say, and I admit that there are challenges to this second test. It presents the very challenges that we do not actually have control when a person goes on his own, so to speak. He would have to go there within five to seven days of the test, but then in practice it can happen that man does not, and this is really a difficult thing. Representative for the speech by Car: I believe that he, as a person in Lapland, spoke with all his heart. I have good friends and, in fact, relatives in the tourism industry in Lapland, so that I know the situation, but I have the impression that 95% and more of the tourists entering the country are coming with two vaccines. In fact, it is a very small group which is currently the target group that would be affected in practice by this second test. [HeikkiAuthorised reply ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u83	Thank you. — Representative Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u84	Värderade Talman! Social- och helsovårdsutskottet har i dag fått klart sitt betankande om det så kallade coronapasset. Passet är ett utmärkt verktyg för att hålla samhället öppet och för samhällets oika aktörer — restaurant, teatrar, nöjesfält, idrotshallar och andra publicka eveemang — att kunna fortsutta sin verksamhet som normalt ifall epidemisituationen försämras och strängare restrictioner igen måste tas i bruk. Ibruktagandet av passet är ändå frivilligt för aktörerna. Utskottet ändrade ändå på regeringens förslag och höjde åldersgränsen för coronapasset från 12 år till 16 år, Vilket flera utlåtanden förutsate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u85	Mr President! First of all, I would like to start with this EU digital corona certificate on which this Finnish national corona passport proposal is based. This was originally provided for by a regulation in the EU for travel in order to open travel from one European country to another and thus to promote free movement. I myself supported this at the time that such a certificate would come specifically to tourism, but I could not imagine that we were standing here today wondering that such a certificate would be required at national level here inside. It should be noted that point 36 of the explanatory memorandum to this Regulation states that it is necessary to prevent direct or indirect discrimination against persons who have not been vaccinated. And now we come to this situation that this passport is also justified, among other things, by people taking a vaccine. I think this is already in breach of this EU regulation. The second thing about this regulation is that testing must be reasonably priced. Well, that too has not been brought to this corona pass show of ours. In practice, there are very expensive tests in Finland, and I also know that quite a few EU countries have set the maximum price for the corona test precisely because of what this regulation requires. That is all, but I would see that this does not meet the original objective of the EU regulation. Of course, this has happened in many other countries. Tourism was first opened, after which it was brought to restaurants and services, to hobbies, since then it has been imported in some countries, especially in southern Europe, to grocery stores and to workplaces. As we know, in Italy, for example, a considerable number of medical staff have been laid off and, in Greece, among others, there has been a ban on entering the workplace and the obligation to pay wages has ceased when there are no vaccines, which means that in Finland, too, this Pandora's box and folly will be opened, which is what the other countries of the EU have become. Then I'm gonna go to this actual show. Yesterday, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon, said in the evening newspaper that this passport would keep Finland open and people would not get sick. This statement is absolutely headless, isn't it? If this passport were to prevent illness, why have we not had these pieces of paper for a year and a half if that were the case? That is not really true. As has been said here for a year and a half, viral infections are prevented by restricting social contacts, by reducing their human contact. In fact, this passport in practice is ridiculous in this light. We know that about Israel, for example. A few weeks ago it was reported that more than 60 percent of those in hospital were twice vaccinated. So what happens in Finland? We do not even know this, because we have stopped testing those who have been vaccinated twice, which is in a way appropriate in time for this slump, which I think has been the case with this corona, illogical. The virus situation has been handled politically, and this is the end result. We are not going to know in Finland — or perhaps we are aware of those who are in hospital — so we do not know how many people have been vaccinated because we are not testing them. Well, this one. Then I recall that, as I recall, Prime Minister Marin said at the beginning of September that all restrictions will be lifted in about four weeks' time. So where are we? Has there been much more of this talk of trying to lift the restrictions? It makes no sense if the situation strikes us, but this passport certainly does not improve that infectious disease situation. Think about it: When we have people in the club, some of whom have been tested maybe 72 hours ago, 71 hours ago, we don't know if they're infected now. And we don't know if there's a double-vaccinated infection in that nightclub together. It has to be said that this epidemic always varies according to political trends. Now it's all about bringing in a piece of paper like this to prevent a disease that can only be prevented by reducing social contacts and human contact. Then I wonder that this has gone through in terms of data protection. If I have to show my sensitive health information now, whether it is a test, a disease or a vaccine, for restaurants, gym operators and so on, how can it be when in this country the police do not get information about the health information of a person, that is, health care? Why is privacy being assessed here in this way? Sometimes I think it's a little political. I find this very strange. Then, of course, there would have been other options. There could have been FFP2 masks, quick tests and so on, but no, this European corona passport that opens the Pandora's box. Finally, when Mr Lindén spoke here about intensive care and the capacity for intensive care, I would like to remind you that, although this disease is serious and this disease is particularly bad for the individual, but when you look at the people treated in the ICU from the start of the epidemic and compare it with the infections detected, the ICU actually suffers from around 0.7% of the infections detected, which means that 99.3% of the cases are committed in the ICU.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u86	Congressman Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u87	Mr President! With constant pitch we are told how we live in a global world, how we are just a tiny drop in this great world and how we should not build barriers between each other. When we talk about the omnipotence of the European Union, we are often told how necessary it is to build aid packages so that cooperation and unity between peoples can be maintained. We are told how often our own decisions are secondary and how we should look up and settle down on decision-making tables, even if we cannot influence them, and we are told that often solutions that are harmful to us should be implemented as such, if so agreed elsewhere in Europe. But, Mr President, when different decisions are made in relation to the corona passport elsewhere, the Council of State is silent and the ministers are absent. We are also told how closely we live in the Nordic community of values. Mr President! So why are we building borders even among our own citizens and why are we doing things differently than in other Nordic countries? Why are we not following what is happening in the rest of Europe at this stage? Half of Europe did not introduce a corona passport, and much of the other countries have built their passports in such a way that they are either based on one vaccine or that their use is in practice either not controlled or respected, usually both. In addition, in other countries, corona testing has been organised for free and easy access to all citizens. This is the case in Austria, for example, where a burst test is in use and where the corona passport does not require two vaccinations. And look what they're doing in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, not to mention Iceland. It is therefore remarkable that when the rest of Europe and the global world have moved on from the corona pass a long time ago, we in Finland think that at this stage, in October, this would be more beneficial than harmful. This puts the citizens against each other. This polarises, and this is practically unnecessary at this stage, ladies and gentlemen. This is not what entrepreneurs want either, even though it has been said here. They prefer to give up restrictions, not maintain them. A good example of how out-of-the-box ministers have been during this debate came from Minister of Science and Culture Kurvisen, who, during Question Time, vigorously suggested how we should take a model of a country such as Denmark. But the Minister did not know when he commented that Denmark had already given up the whole idea of a corona passport a long time ago, and now we are considering such proposals here. In the world, vaccine coverage has increased and restrictions have been lifted. The dismantling of restrictions and the return to normal life is crucial when risk groups and all those willing are protected from the worst form of the disease. There is no rational reason, neither epidemiological nor economic, that such a system should be introduced at this stage. In practice, it would maintain some of the interest rate restrictions, even though the rest of the world has abandoned them with a few exceptions. In addition, the Government’s proposals have been built in such a way that business does not have enough time to implement them. This too would obviously come into force on Saturday, and it puts many sectors in a rather unsustainable situation. That is why you would think that there would be at least the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Salmon, who has already acted as a delegation in committee and has abstained. Mr President! At this point, the corona pass itself is an empty lot, and when Prime Minister Marin scratches this lot, the public will not feel that they have won. But I'm going to go back to where the salmon rises, which is Lapland. Where is the chairman of the committee of responsibility, Mr Salmon? If Mr Salmon had not abstained, the result would have been different for the tourism and restaurant sectors. When Salmon is not here to answer questions, I hope that the next Lapland defender will come here to answer: Why does the centre intend to significantly weaken the tourism industry in Lapland? Why is Minister Kiuru allowed to influence the holiday season of tourism? There has not been a terrible encounter with hikers who have walked in the Kaira, and there has been no corona pass to ask. Monitoring is also the kind of thing that people look at on the bridge between Tornio and Haparanta, but you don't have to go to the Overtower, and no one will ask. The introduction of the passport at this stage is a very negative signal in a situation where the rest of the Schengen area has largely abandoned or abandoned restrictions, and even in those areas where these exist they are not effectively controlled. Mr President! This government seems to be interested in internationalism only when it comes to development aid and asylum seekers, but not when paying customers come to us, and not when domestic demand would help compensate the economy damaged by the interest rate and take care of domestic jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u88	Thank you. — Congressman Koponen, Noora, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u89	Mr President! Both corona infections and the need for hospitalisation have started to grow again during the autumn. Last time I saw you today, there's been reports of increasing levels of infection. Finland follows the European average in terms of vaccination coverage. The Government proposal under discussion proposes to amend the Act on communicable diseases so that the provisions of the Act on Contagious Diseases of Foreign Origin to prevent the spread of covid-19 to Finland are provisionally in force until 31 December 2021. This would also apply to the regulation of the national use of the EU digital corona passport. The proposal also proposes to introduce additional regulation to the Act on communicable diseases. In the case of customs duties. The Koronapass is an alternative measure and a risk management tool for corona restrictions — not an absolute value, but an option that would make it possible to keep society more open if the disease situation so requires. On the one hand, it might be said that one of the important tasks of the corona passport is also to support social well-being in a health-safe way, because we already have a year and a half shortage of social contacts. When talking about the Koronapass, it is important to get a good look at its content and purpose. One of the most important functions on the passport is that society does not really need to be severely restricted or closed down. This also supports the principle that adults are responsible for managing the epidemic and combating the spread of the disease, not children and young people — they have already carried it far too much. Children are entitled to play and recreational activities according to their age and to participate in cultural activities, for example, in support of growth and development. If a corona passport had been required for children aged 12 or over, these possibilities for participation would have been significantly more difficult. We must ensure that children are not put on an unequal footing. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Children and families need culture and exercise. They are important pillars of growth, learning and development and enhance equality between families. The introduction of a Koronapass will also ensure the participation of families whose family members belong to a high-risk group. Health-safe interaction is everyone's right. Hobbies, amusement parks and theme parks, zoos, indoor playgrounds, museums, exhibitions, theatres and other places that are important and familiar to children — children must have the right to them regardless of how parents react to vaccination. In addition to raising the age limit, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also called for the effective possibility for young unvaccinated minors to have a free corona test for corona certificates. With an increase in the age limit, this applies to young people aged 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u90	Thank you. — Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u91	Mr President! Now the corona pass will be introduced in Finland. The Greens presented their passports as early as February, but only now does the vaccination coverage begin to be sufficient. The world already has good experiences with the use of the passport, and it ensures that society is kept open, regardless of how the corona pandemic is going to develop. Double-vaccinated people can travel pretty smoothly by now. Almost all sectors have been disciplined by the interest period, but cultural and event sectors have been subjected to particular discipline. The Korona Pass ensures that cultural and other public events can also be organised as the pandemic continues. The age limit of 16 years is a good change in the draft law and I thank the committee for that. This is not the last pandemic we're going to face. That is why we need to develop policies that enable society to function normally even in the middle of a pandemic. Therefore, the Korona Pass is not just for this very moment, but also for the future. It is therefore worth introducing legislation on the corona passport as soon as possible. Mr President! The Korona Pass also provides an incentive to take the vaccine, and that is a good thing. Currently, the majority of corona patients requiring hospitalisation are unvaccinated. The progress of vaccinations is absolutely crucial to keeping society open and reducing the burden on intensive care units. False news from the corona virus and vaccine is dangerous. Only with vaccines can we survive this pandemic. There are several pandemics in history that have been eradicated by vaccines. Let us hope that the Koronapandem will continue on that list, which already contains influenza, smallpox and cholera. The World Health Organization has generally estimated that vaccines against measles and other dangerous diseases prevent the premature death of between 2 and 3 million children each year. The effectiveness of vaccines against diseases is beyond doubt. Two corona vaccines provide approximately 90% protection against a serious form of disease. The Korona Pass ensures that cultural and public events are organised in a more health-friendly environment. And it is absolutely essential that I correct Mr Rantanen's argument that double vaccinations should not be tested in hospitals. Yes, they will. Something narrows it down to these stories in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u92	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u93	Mr President! I have been wondering how corona vaccines should be resisted and how not to have a passport. All of us remember when society was then forced to close: the shops were closed, the streets were empty, there was no movement anywhere, business stopped, businesses were in trouble, and so on. We all remember that. We also know that there is no post-corona period. We need to learn to live with this virus. It will not disappear from this society and the world anywhere. It just changes, and I don't know which way to go, but we know that over the next five years. Two important things are now important: that, if the epidemic gets worse, we can ensure that the movements and shops and these stores remain open, and that those who are in good shape for vaccination, if they fall ill with the corona, are very likely to be able to cope with the disease. I do not judge anyone, but even those people who are opposed to taking the vaccine are certainly those people, as are those people in my own neighborhood who are at risk, and I would never want to risk their lives on the moon, never. That is why I have taken my own vaccines and made sure by my own hand hygiene and my behavior that I do not endanger the lives of these people. Those lives are extremely valuable to me, every one of them, and I want to protect them as best I can. I'm sure there are those people in your neighborhood and in your neighborhood. How many of you want that person in the neighborhood to be put at risk?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u96	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u97	Mr President! It seems that perhaps the weakest in this debate are the central party fins.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u98	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u130	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u140	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u146	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u148	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u171	Madam President! We have discussed how the demand for this second test is damaging to the tourism industry, and that is what the chairman of the committee has discussed. The salmon also took a position and pointed out that Parliament had legislative powers. That is what this is all about: Parliament has legislative powers. The committees will discuss the legislative proposals that the government has brought to Parliament and consult experts and make the necessary changes. When it comes to these temporary interest rates in particular, it is understandable that they have had a short period of time in which to prepare, and that is why more and more careful consideration is needed in Parliament and it must also be possible to make changes to them during the committee procedure. That is why I find it quite worrying if it is that Parliament cannot independently do its work in committee, but is under pressure from outside to change the proposals in some way. Parliament has legislative powers, and we are about to vote on amendments to the articles that have the potential to influence the removal of this second test, which has been called for by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, and several expert opinions have also supported this. I hope that as many MPs as possible will be able to support this amendment and we will be able to lift the demand for this second test and ease the plight in the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u172	And to this end, Minister Kiuru, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u173	Mr President! Thank you for an excellent debate today. This has been interesting to hear. First of all, this debate has again referred to the fact that if the corona pass had already been fixed before the summer and had been made suitable for the whole of Finland, then the whole summer could have been saved for both events and many other activities. It goes without saying that Finland’s vaccination coverage was rather low, as we remember. When I was born in the '70s, I myself have been one of those who received a vaccine only after the midsummer fold in July, so quite a few people still younger than me would have missed these events. That is why I have stressed that this corona passport which the government is now bringing to Parliament is not a means of closure, but, with this vaccine coverage, it is precisely a means of opening up society. If restrictions are imposed on society in a particular region, then it is possible to use a corona passport to ensure that, in that situation, these restrictions are applied as proportionately as possible and as necessary. That is what Mr Rantanen asked about. We are very committed to implementing the hybrid strategy. The restrictions have almost been lifted. We still have restaurant restrictions in place at the moment in the areas of dispersal. There, however, has been a relaxation of regulation, and in other respects there are no restrictions. At the same time, Mr Rantanen wondered what restrictions I was talking about. The hybrid strategy states that if there are clusters of infections in the region, they will be shut down and regional action will be taken in addition to current legislation and other powers. That's what this is all about. Mr Rantanen, you also said — I think it is a good statement, but I would draw attention to the fact that it is good for everyone to know about this — that the virus is now being controlled by government politics and not by epidemiology. This proposal has been examined by the Parliament and it seems that these epidemiological arguments put forward by the government appear to be
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u174	The general debate is closed. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u175	The sitting adjourned at 10:50 p.m. and the second item in the order of business will now be resumed. In the general debate, Arja Juvonen, supported by Mr Kaisa Juuso, has proposed that a proposal under objection 1 be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u176	The amendments to the section are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u177	Mr President! I propose an amendment to Section 16a.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u178	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a thin act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u179	Mr President! I propose an amendment to section 16b on the second corona test.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u180	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a thin act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u181	Mr President! I am going to propose an amendment to Rule 16d: In connection with the removal of the second test.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u182	Madam President! I am in favour of this representative. I don't know. It's a very important act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u183	Mr President! I will make a motion for a change to this paragraph.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u184	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a thin act.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u185	Mr President! I propose an amendment to Section 58i.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-12-ps-115.u186	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a thin act.
