ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1487	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 14 envoys present, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. Mr. Stjepan Krešić is not able to attend the session for justified reasons. For the 18th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the 17th session of the House of Nations; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 3. Amendment I to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02-01-19/05 of 28.04.2005; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01.02-02-1-17/12 of 08.05.2012; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Act No: 01,02-02-1-28/11 of 29.12.2011; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto and Dragutin Rodić, Law No: 02-02-1-19/12 of 16.05.2012; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties (first reading) – Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto, Halid Genjac and Dragutin Rodić, Law No: 02-02-1-20/12 of 18.05.2012; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-4/12 of 28.05.2012; 9. Report on the implementation of the law in charge of the Central Election Commission for 2011, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, No 01,02-50-19-577/12 of 30.04.2012; 10. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material No. 02-50-19-513/12 of 16.04.2012; 2 11. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Justice, No 01,02-50-19-600/12 of 07.05.2012; 12. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency, issue: 01,02-50-19-633/12 of 16.05.2012; 13. Information on the state of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01,02-04-1-579/12 of 30.04.2012; 14. Report on the work of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 14/09/2010 to 31/12/2011, material number: 01,02,05/6-50-19-505/12 of 12.04.2012; 15. The Commission's report on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the Anti-Corruption Report 2011 Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency, material No: 01,02-50-19-327/12 of 23.05.2012; 16. Information on the programming process of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) – Component I for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 and 2013, material of the Directorate for European Integration, issue 03/4-06-394/12 of 07.05.2012; 17. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2011, material of the BiH Appeal Office, No 01,02-50-19-506/12 of 12.04.2012; 18. Consider the extension of the term of office to the members of the Management Board of BHRT ; 19. Selection of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance (Temporary Joint Committee), issue: 01,02-50-14-31-5/12 of 08.06.2012; 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposed by the Joint College of both homes); 21. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Customs Tariff Bill, Proposer of the conclusion: Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on mutual representation in the provision of consular protection and services in third countries, the material of the BiH Presidency, No 01.02-05-2-635/12 of 17.05.2012; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex III to the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of projects in favour of the judiciary and/or courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Presidency, No 01.02-05-2-636/12 of 17.05.2012; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – Brcko bypass project, BiH Presidency material, No 01.02-05-2-638/12 of 17.05.2012; 25. Adherence to ratification Supplement No 2 to the 2007 financing agreement on the state programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of IPA – Assistance in Transition and Institution Strengthening Component, BiH Presidency material, No 01.02-05-2-639/12 of 17.05.2012; 3 26. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No 3 to the 2007 financing agreement on the state programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of IPA – Assistance in Transition and Institution Strengthening Component, BiH Presidency material, No 01.02-05-2-637/12 of 17.05.2012; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Legal and Judicial Guarantees against the illegal processing of personal data, the BiH Presidency material, No 01,02-05-2-658/12 of 23.05.2012. That's 27 counts of the 18th session agenda. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up a word on the agenda? Any changes and additions? The way I see it, there's no interest. Thank you very much. Since there are no comments on the agenda, amendments and additions, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on, in accordance with Article 60. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? As far as I can tell, there are no reports. Thank you. We're voting on the 17th session. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14 – for 13, against no one, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 8 for, 1 abstention, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that the 17th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. Let's go to point two. Ad. 2. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1490	Well, I'm going to say very briefly that I'm not happy with the answer and that there is a continuing obstruction on my request that this House finally gets an analysis of the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges. It's already, I mean, it's been going on for a little more than a year now, that the subject is not at all wanted by the competent institutions. Let's really see, without any prejudice, what the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges were and whether they justified their role as they were supposed to have. The BiH Court of Justice says -- we haven't conducted an analysis, and it says -- we haven't even asked, we're practically the judges, of the occasion of this prosecution, imposed by the High and Prosecutorial Council, ask them. It's like there's this incredible fear of strangers in which you can't do anything, because they've been setting up judges and prosecutors and they're probably afraid of it right now and nobody's allowed to say anything about it. I really ask the College, if it was the wrong address, and the BiH Court says it's not us who should give, I Bog forbid, I don't know who else can if not them, but here they say ask the Judicial and Prosecutorial advice. I'm asking the College to reroute my question to them, so let's see what they say in the end. We'll probably wait a year for them to say we don't have an analysis either.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1491	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. If it can help the College has agreed at yesterday's session to open a special point at the next 19th session on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and other institutions, but here we will prepare it for 19th, and according to yours, here's the position on this response, we will try to solve it until then. Do we have any other comments? I see we don't. Since we just consulted each other that today, that we don't have any interest in representation issues, that we're going to leave them for the next 19th session, if that's still the case? Thank you very much. That's how we ended this agenda. We're moving on to three agendas, Ad. 3. Amendment I to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), material of the BiH Council of Ministers The BiH Council of Ministers on 28 April 2005 referred to the parliamentary procedure of Amendment I to the BiH Constitution for consideration and adoption. At its 47th session, held on 05.10.2005, he adopted the first reading of Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH, with the following conclusion – the House of Peoples will hold a debate on Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH when the Council of Ministers delivers the draft wage law in the parliamentary procedure. The House of Representatives at the 64th session, held on 31.08.2005, adopted the Amendment I to the BiH Constitution in a second reading. You've received a report from the Constitutional Commission. The Commission concluded that certain procedural shortcomings were observed for the continuation of the procedure for Amendment I and, not 5, by discussing the amandman itself, proposed to the House of the Next Conclusion – it is up to the Council of Ministers to refer the amendment II parliamentary procedure to the Constitution of BiH as soon as possible, which will delete Article 2 of Article 9. The BiH Constitution, i.e. to make it possible to reduce compensation for persons acting as BiH institutions. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, my colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1493	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1494	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any interested people. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for the conclusion of the commission. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 11, versus 1, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, RS 5 for, none against and abstained. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I conclude the conclusion, which was proposed by the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was adopted. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH Institutions (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH As this is the second reading, there is a debate on repairs, amendments and a vote on the Bill's Proposal. You have received the Report from the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission accepted the draft law with two amendments that became an integral part of the text of the Law. At the 29th session, held on 07.06 this year, the House of Representatives passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions in a second reading also with two amendments. Now I give my word to the bill's promoter, if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1499	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1500	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1501	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1502	Of course. Excuse me, can you repeat the vote? Thank you, Comrade Raguž. Now, please, let's vote. Okay. 7 Present 13 – for 7, versus 3, abstention 3. Federation of BiH 3 for, 2 against, 3 abstentions, RS 4 for, 1 against. The general majority exists, the entity majority does not exist. Well, we'll wait, I suggest we wait for Mr. Tihić, if he's here somewhere, a second two, if we don't move to the 19th session. All right, we'll leave a later settlement for the next session. We're going to the end of today's agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto and Dragutin Rodić This is the first reading of the bill. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I give my word to the president of the povjrenstvo, to Krstan, to fellow Simić. Is there a need for fellow Simić?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1504	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1505	Thank you very much. I give the word to the legislators of the law. Is there a need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are going so fast that, so we have to discuss the registered colleague Bećirović and his colleague Rodić. ____________) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1508	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues from the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen present here at the session. I would like to briefly say just a few words when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Conflict of Interest and to remind you of what we adopted here in July this year in the formation of the Interresor Working Group, where we chose Mrs. Borjana Krišta, Mr. Halid Genjac and myself in front of the House of Peoples in the Insterresor Working Group. Of course, along with those members who came from the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers on this Law, it was done about 8 months, i.e. in that mandate that was held by the Interresor Working Group, which was until May 1st, 2012. A whole series of sessions were held to amend and supplement the three laws, meaning from an Interresor Working Group's mandate. And when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest, a very high degree of consent has been reached. At the last joint session of the Interresor Working Group, it was decided that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest and the Law on Financing, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties should be referred to the ordinary parliamentary procedure, meaning, through the basic legislative procedure. As one of the legislators of this Law, I felt that since we worked extremely thoroughly on this committee when it came to this Law, and I think that we had achieved a certain degree of consent and a lot of good legal solutions, my view was to go through a complete procedure, of course making sure that we entered this procedure through phases and the possibility of coming, of course, through this debate to quality solutions. The law of course also received support from the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples and what at this point, preparing for this session, I found that the House of Representatives had a different approach to this issue. My proposal is to have a full debate today, you have the law. I think the law has just considered and analysed the part that, through the application of the law, has been problematic all this time. In today's debate, we will have in one part a report from the Central Election Commission on the implementation of these three laws from its jurisdiction, even when it is seen and when it is seen then it is clear that there was a need for the adoption of this Law. So, I suggest we have a debate when it comes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1509	Thank you, fellow Rodić. I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Bećirović, applied for the word. Here's a colleague, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues. Since this is about first reading of the Law, to discuss the principles and compliance of this Law with the Constitution and the legislation of BiH, let me put a few of my thoughts on the subject. Of course, I deeply appreciate and respect the engagement of the Joint Commission, and I am absolutely aware that this area needs to be improved, because definitely this area is one of the hubs of corruption in BiH, which unfortunately prevents every creative work in this country, but in my opinion, 9 were not fully respected in this law, respected the legislative framework, or the system in BiH, especially in the area of legislation that regulates the work of public enterprises and businesses. In my deep belief, there's a lot of confusion here, vaguely, and even misusing the terms of a public enterprise, because there's no distinction between public enterprises, public corporations and companies. According to the laws applicable in entities, the term company is used only for public undertakings, which are very precisely defined in the laws of both entities in the Law on Public Enterprises. Of course there are laws on companies, and unfortunately we do not still have, in accordance with aneks IX, any rules governing the work of public corporations, or BiH-level corporations. Perhaps this is an opportunity to remind ourselves that it is necessary to discuss it. I would like to point out that no private company, therefore a private-owned enterprise, can be treated as a yen company unless it performs a public function. And here, in this law, it's practically even. Public enterprises with private enterprises that do not perform public functions are practically equal to this Act, which in a certain way derogates the regulations of entities that regulate the work of public enterprises and the work of companies. On the other hand, the term management was completely misused. And you'll see that the law is about administration or management, so it's like two separate things. You can't be a member, it's about board members or management. Many interpretations are possible if this provision is left like this. Management is neither body nor person. Management is a process and participants in the process are managers, therefore members of the Board. Only if we were to consistently interpret this provision here, given the structure, or kind of manager, would it turn out that the head of the service, for example, is humane in a company, if it's in that place, is in conflict of interest in this. Management or Management is shutting each other down. In the laws on public enterprises of both entities, management is a synonym management, because it stands there in these management laws, in the management brackets. I don't want to go deeper into an analysis of it, and it's wrong, but at least in the laws it's put that term as a son of the board, because it's thought, it's known that it's meant to be members of the administration. Of course management like this, in this law, leaves such opportunities to improvise, and that is again fate when we build aliens into our law, so uncritical (?). So, I repeat again, this is probably where the management was thought, so as the son of the administration, it was supposed to serve the term "foreigner," management. But this is where he was told by the ally or something. So it's not well-formed. It gives opportunities, the first thing that is contrary to the laws on public enterprises of entities, and gives opportunities to very broad improvisation in interpreting this. Once again, management is not a body, management is a process that involves certain activities such as. planning, such as control, organisation, management and coordination. E participants in the process are, therefore, bearers of the process are managers. But they can also be at a lower level. For this reason, I would really ask that, there are other examples in some of the provisions of this law, that, in the final definition of the text of this Act, the applicable laws of entities that regulate this area, to remove dilemmas, ambiguities and incorrectly used terms of the public undertaking and the terms of management. In our legislation, what we want to introduce in this law is the term of administration, both in one entity and in another. On the other hand, what I might like to take the opportunity to maybe give us some suggestions, or we are completely out of this, outside of the regulation of conflict of interest remain a very broad area, and these are public enterprises and enterprises with majority state participation in BiH and corporations in line with aneks IX.. I assure you that corruption due to conflicts of interest is far greater in this area than in part and in the one we regulate. For this reason, I think that, given the jurisdiction, we should regulate here and conflict of interest in public corporations at the level of BiH and suggest 10 perhaps to entities in some way or to conclude that public enterprises laws, their provisions governing conflict of interest, comply with this law and regulate them more precisely. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1511	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. No more applications, if that's true? We're voting on the Zaon Proposal in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Present 14 – for 7, versus 3, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH 4 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions, RS 3 for, 2 abstentions. The entity majority exists, the general majority exists. I agree with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties (first reading) – Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto, Halid Genjac and Dragutin Rodić This is the first reading of the bill. So it's an article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Committee for Finance and the budget of the People's House of the Parlamenary Assembly of BiH. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I give the word to the legislators of the law. Is it a friend of my Rodić? No, I don't. My kolegica Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1513	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, deputy, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. Here is the proposal for this Law, after my colleague Rodić said within the previous point, because, in fact, this proposal for a law that we have today in our first reading, the work of the Interresor Working Group, which, by the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. both homes, was formed and made up by representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and the Central Election Commission. I will indeed tell my colleagues what we have today and what I find very important, which is given the conclusions of the House of Representatives, it may seem to be an unusual procedure for the reasons why this law did not get the necessary majority in the House of Representatives, but here is a fully respected business procedure, the different legislators, we today have the law in the first reading around which within the Interresor Working Group, the highest degree of consent has been reached. In fact, the provisions of this Act are unanimously supported by all members of the Interresor Working Group. 11 The House of Representatives of the Constitutional Commission did not actually support the constitutional foundation or legal system, or the principles of this Law for one reason only because more than 50% of the provisions were amended in this Law and in this case, according to the Single Rules and Rules, they considered that there was no constitutional basis and that it was not in line with the legal system. However, I think that there has been a little wandering around in the proposals for the conclusions that have been delivered to us, and even in the view of the Constitutional Commission. I believe that we have a constitutional foundation here, that we have before us a law that speaks of the financing of political parties to participate in the elections. We have a law that introduces the responsibility of political entities, we have a law that says how political parties are financed from the budget of the state, which means how the separation is done, how the books are kept. So what you wanted to say is that a law has been made that speaks about the transparency of the financing of political entities and the responsibility of political entities. In that sense, I would suggest to this House to support it, and the situation which is like, here's a graduate lawyer, and through the work of the Interressor Group, and, here I have contacted and colleagues, of course, agreeing, what the Single Rules means, I don't want to violate them, we have a situation if we adopt the Law to resolve this in a very simple way, to propose, both this House and the other House, a commission that will make the consolidated text of the Law, means we will fully respect the Single Rules procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1514	Thank you, colleague Krišto. We're opening a debate. A colleague, Tadić, applied for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. So, now I am speaking as a member of the College, it is clear that there are two separate procedures in terms of the adoption of the law, and that is the thing that we constantly pay attention to when we talk about the equality of these homes and it is absolutely never and absolutely nothing is questioned. But here we have a technical problem that seems to me more complicated than what we could possibly do as some kind of concession in solving this problem. So, not entering into the content of these provisions, therefore believing that they are good, supporting the Commission, the Interresor Working Group and what it has done, of course with this correction that Mr Bećirović was talking about, there are probably some more details to be discussed in the amendment phase, I warn, however, that we now have the next situation. Here, and the past Law that we just passed and this Law did not get support at the House of Representatives, but not only did they not get support, but it was a redefined mandate of the Commission itself by requiring the first commission to declare whether it was a major change of scope, etc., and so on and so forth, that I do not repeat it, you all have materials. Now, we're going into a situation where we supported this in our first reading, and that's over. So we have two attitudes towards the Interresor Working Group. The one who's saying this well did and the other who's saying, do this. Now, nothing is a problem, that we probably won't find ourselves in a situation that based on this scale of changes that exist, we don't really need a circumstance in which the Interressor Working Group proposes new texts of the law. Just do the perimeter, don't do something wrong. And then 12 of us have to sit down again, expand the mandate of the commission, and I don't know how to get into some kind of one that's been going for months, not to say for years, because you know how it's already going with us. We had here one prepared, form of conclusion regarding all this, which had no effect on whether the Interressor Working Group did its job well or not. So, she supported that the Interresor Working Group was doing, even to the extent that you've done this well, let's now according to this just... adjust it to be a new law, to respect these unique rules of normative acts, about norming. So now I think, as a member of the College, I'm saying that we are really in one situation where we're going to have to explain ourselves with members of the House of Representatives that we're now in a situation that we're going to have two completely different situations, two completely different approaches that I'm saying you won't be able to resolve in this way to agree on the committees of two homes text. Because the question is whether the House of Representatives wants to accept the amendment of the law at all now or whether it's looking for a new law. Now, you'll probably pass them a new law, you'll have to if, Parliament is that, you'll deliver these amendments to us, you'll have to Parliament that. And now they have a new law, we have changes, how do we agree? So it's a mess. Let's just say it's a mess, I mean it's not about anything else. So let's see if we can get out of this situation with some conclusion, I think Mr. Rodić has in that sense a defined proposal, so that at least when we didn't respond in time to the past law, we don't have this unusual situation, absolutely unnecessary to both the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1516	Thank you, colleague Tadić. I'm a colleague of Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm always a little confused when someone starts the discussion – we've got a mess about this or that. The confusion is because we don't respect regulations. Today's theme, you said in your announcement, is the question, first reading, whether there is a constitutional basis and whether this law is in line with legal standards and principles. The Constitutional Commission unanimously said and we are absolutely behind it, that it has a constitutional basis, that it exists and that it is in line with principles. The question of whether the rules were applied, it's a matter of form. Here's the point. Legal principles are a matter of essence. Is this... with the principles of our unique rules of how we write laws, it has nothing to do with this topic that we are discussing today, absolutely. Mr. Tadić, you don't have to frown. The principles are content, and the form is technique. And I agree that this is where the problem arises, especially because this Interresor group, which has been working for eight months, has had the mandate to make changes and complements, not a new law. And we simply improvise here at any moment. We've had improvisation and attempt to improvise and the amendment of the Constitution where we said we'll agree, so we'll change Amendment I to Amendment II and it'll do. For God's sakes, do we agree and agree on the various committees and the amendments to the Constitution which should be sacred in every country, especially with those MPs and MPs who are full of the word of statehood. That's why we said on Constitutional Legal Committee 13, get that back into the procedure legally, let the legal act and not interpret Article 82 by force. The Rules of Procedure and we say the next term will continue. We're not. They wanted us to interpret, because we're bringing changes to the Constitution after eight years. That's why we're absolutely sure this is arranged.). I agree that there is a problem, that this law must also be in line with the rules, as we could, we could not say it was not agreed because it is contrary to the Unique Rules of Law. We've been guarding the integrity of the rule of law and we're aware, there's a way to overcome this, but let's not do this to improvise, break regulations, but by just following the rules. If we are in a position to have this situation, we are only left to confirm the principles, and that the Kolegijum may propose an extension of the Interresor Group's mandate as a solution. But there's only a problem around here, this is a minimum of where consent has been reached. If we go back again, be sure, we don't have the law. We don't have the law. And this law is necessary, we're going to have elections, it's needed, and now we're going to have that problem. Therefore, we have fully consciously done our part of the work, and I now have no reason to fear why, what they will say to the College of the House of Representatives. They should have run this, here's Mrs. Krišto suggesting a refined text. I don't mind, but just don't say that this law doesn't, that it doesn't comply with the principles, the legal principles of this country. Yes, she's in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1518	Thank you, fellow Simić. Replica, colleague Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1519	My kolega Simić, here we speak as lawyers. It seems to me that at least in our business, basic, legal, is the basic problem when detail cloudes the essence. No Niko here has had any complaints about the Commission's work on which you are headed. And you've done your job from your point of view. But it's not the House of People's Constitutional Affairs Commission. It is just one small segment as well as the work of every other commission in the legislative process. Parliament, regardless of your position as committee, always takes care of its Rules of Procedure. And in that Rules of Procedure, he says that if the text is a change and a supplement and so on. greater in a certain extent, and according to these rules, it will go to the adoption of a new law. So, you have every honor in your work at the Constitutional Commission, but here at all, a missed topic. Secondly, at the Club of Serbian Delegates, we decided that at this point in the agenda we would act, that we would go with the conclusion that I interpreted. You're a member of that club. And if there's a need to replicate it this way, we do it at the club. You weren't there, I can understand, but the second time I'm asking you to, we can always take a five-minute break to clarify some information if there's obviously a problem with each other's information. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1520	Thank you, fellow Tadić. I'm a colleague of Simić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1521	Mr. Tadić, there was no such thing as attacking the Constitutional Committee or defending itself. I'm aware that we have a problem, and I'm aware that we need to solve it, but from your discussion, what came up was that we have a problem because of some illegal work. We have a problem because of the way the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is set up. And that's what the problem is. It's no problem that someone's justice is someone's work, someone's dislike. We have a situation like this, and I agree there's a solution, and it doesn't matter what we talked about in another way. This is simple, it exists, it's not harmonised, the conclusion is proposed and we'll solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1522	Thank you and colleagues Simić and colleagues, Tadić. A fellow Genjac called for an argument. Here you go, fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1523	I thank the chairman. Well, I do, and I'm feeling a bit of a commitment maybe, given that I've been leading this Interresor group, so we've put a lot of work and a lot of work into work and around one law and another, and we've been aware, I'd like Mr. Krstan to listen to me because of the Constitutional Commission, so we've been aware on the Interressor Working Group that it's a change that goes beyond 50%, at least quantitatively, which is binding on the Single Rules. Then we decided to ask for a mandate to propose a new law, and we decided so and proposed a new law. However, inside the Interresor Group there were problems, because, immediately, the proposed law was proposed by another law from an Interresor Group member who was different and we saw then that no new law could be given the necessary support. Here, I would say, both counterpart Krstan and counterpart Tadić are right in terms, we are now discussing, so the topic is constitutional law base and compliance with the legal system. That's the question. But also the outcome of this debate on this issue, which one quite different course and conclusion had on the Constitutional Commission and could have, what this House does not commit, this House, I think there is a colleague Tadić right, obliging further developments, what will happen, how the College should be asked. Namely, why? The House of Representatives concluded that, since over 50% of the amendments are being done in both laws, they proposed that, for the purpose of respecting the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions, the Interresor Group hold another session to refer laws with the same name to the parliamentary procedure, reflecting solutions agreed during the work of the Interresor Working Group. Since the Interresor Working Group is formed by the decisions of both homes, this conclusion, if the House of Nations does not adopt it in the same content, cannot be implemented. We don't have a mandate to meet again if the House of Peoples doesn't decide that, because we're not a committee of one home. We're a commission by decision of both homes. That's one problem. The second problem, really, if this is adopted, let's say the House of Representatives has that conclusion, I'm considering theoretically, if we don't adopt it he doesn't have any importance, the Interresor Group can't meet, if we adopt these laws in the first reading, and even in the second reading, these are the suggestions of the House of 15 peoples that go towards the House of Representatives. It's a possible procedure, and then the House of Representatives is considering these laws. He can say it again. It's over 50%, and we won't. He can take it. Now, that's a question. I don't know, maybe you could think about it for me. I don't have this concern on the Interresor Group that maybe there might be a problem. I think about funding political parties there was a consensus, I think that would be with the same name to do some form, that defacto purified text would be in the procedure referred to, I don't think there would be any problem. I also don't think there's a consensus about conflicts of interest, because there's no consensus, but there's a majority that we need, so let's see in the Interresor Group. I think that, therefore, by respecting the proposal and opinion of the Constitutional Commission, but by respecting all these possible perspectives and all possible consequences, and any possible problems that might arise, I think that the House of Nations could also reach a conclusion in this place – yes, it is, all agreed, but we recommend that Interrsor sit down once again and overcome these amendments to the Convention with the same title and send them to the procedure. And then the Interresor Group would have a mandate to sit down, if we could settle it, then let's go that way, if we don't solve the House of Peoples continuing its course with these laws as it is, so we could agree on this, I mean. So, to adopt the House's conclusion that, in accordance with and in agreement with the House of People's House of Representatives' conclusion, the Interresor Group once again sits down, this translates into those laws with the same title, so these are not new laws and delivers them to the procedure. Unless the Interresor Group does so within some time, the House of Nations will proceed with a procedure on these laws at the place where it left off. That someone might choose a solution that, some compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1524	Thank you, fellow Genjac. I'm a colleague of Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1525	Mr. Chairman, briefly. In the previous law I failed to respond in a way, it might not even come to this, however, to explain why. These laws have entered the session of both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in a different way. They didn't get there, so on the Constitutional Commission they didn't get the green light so they could move on. On the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples they are. In order to overcome this situation, here I propose that the Interresor Working Group be in charge of preparing amendments and additions to the Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH's Authorities to hold another session to refer to parliamentary procedures with the same name, which will reflect the solution and... during the work of the Interresor Working Group. So that's what it was called in the previous session, the Interresor Working Group, and let it try to solve this part, and I think we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1526	Thank you. My kolegica Krišto. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1527	We're going back in fact, here we go through the debate on the proposals of this law in the first reading, we've actually said everything about what it is and how there's been a debate on interresor working groups. If we really want to get to the law then we can come to the law through the formation of a commission and a proposal by the House of Peoples to the House of Representatives, to form a committee that will bring the texts in line with the Single Rules and Procedures, to satisfy the form. If we do not want to have laws, I am well aware of this proposal to conclude which colleague Rodić has proposed a proposal for the conclusion of the House of Representatives. What does that mean? Please read carefully if you have, it says it only gives the Interresor Working Group a mandate to meet and make new amendments with the same name. We delivered a proposal to amend and supplement the law. It's not the new law. It says "changes and additions." And we have the conclusion that we get changes and additions. That's what my colleague Simić said. That's what I said here. Let's not spin around in circles. There's a clear procedure here. So we did what we had to do at the conclusion. It is the only way that we as the House of Peoples, since we are authorized to propose in this House of Nations and agree in the Interresor Working Group, to support the Law and to propose to the House of Representatives. Don't always be slaves, because that doesn't make us bound by the procedure of business, that we have to wait for what's going to happen at the Zatumni dom, or, in this case, to say, if they suggested one conclusion, which leads us to nothing again, that we accept it. I'm not ready for that kind of thing. I really wouldn't want to throw this work away in vain. And if anyone will accept the Law in terms of whether it is the essence of the Law, then they will say so in another reading—that is. Therefore, let us not, I propose that we support the Law, because no constitutional basis and principles are asked, and let us propose that in the case of, meaning consideration, this Law, when it comes to the procedure of the House of Representatives, the proposal for establishment, does not have to be an Interresor Working Group, it may be a new commission in front of the House of People and, together with the Committee of the House of Representatives for, to create a consolidated text of the law. And that's a very clear procedure for us. Even the consolidated text should not be created by the Interresor Working Group has already spoken out on this. And I think this is a situation that we can come out of just like that, without questioning the content of the law and the essence of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1528	Thank you. We can get out of any situation in different ways. He's a colleague of Ivanic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1529	Thank you, Chairman. First, I think this law is pretty good. That's what I said to the Finance and Budget Commission, and it would be a shame if it failed because of the procedural reasons. I'm not an expert in procedure completely, I think it would be good if the College didn't put any of the motions to the vote until it was, as I tell you, sure it would be okay. And so please, here's just as a suggestion, I didn't know 17 of you were making a deal, so I apologize for taking the word out, but my suggestion is that we don't make a mistake because of the speed, but to leave it alive, because I think it's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1530	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. It's always good when the real proposal comes from the people. It's a comment... Thank you very much. Now that we've heard more debates, so we don't fall into the trap of voting or falling of this law, I think we've had enough discussion, we've heard different ideas, the fact is that the content is acceptable to everyone, I suggest we don't take any breaks today and so on, to end the debate for today's session and to continue at the next session with this agenda point and on the plea and everything. This will give us one long break and we can all agree and find the best quality solution. Can we accept that as...? [[Common discussion]] Thank you. Here, that concludes point 7.. hvl you all for contributing to the debate. We're going to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1537	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. 19 I must say that this report is comprehensive, that it has given us very valuable information, but unfortunately it has also pointed to certain problems that exist and are evident when it comes to the electoral process. In order not to waste much time, we have discussed everything very closely on the Constitutional Committee, and it is precisely the result of this discussion and this proposed conclusion. However, I must say that we missed one technical error in writing the conclusion, and I would like to add in the sense that in the second row behind "the Council of Ministers of BiH", a new part of the text "and the Central Election Commission of BiH" comes and the rest remains unchanged. Why? Well, right now, the Central Election Commission is crucial through organization, implementation and control of the election, and I think it's necessary here to just point out its responsibility, that this election process is going well and that we don't have any objections after every choice of theft, bribery, counterfeiting, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1538	Thank you, colleague Simić. My kolegica Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1539	Thank you very much. Here, my colleague Simić has already said, we have discussed this report and on our Constitutional Justice Commission, and indeed I also want to join these commendable words and to say that this report is indeed comprehensive and really relevant to the implementation of the law. This report shows that the Central Election Commission has focused its activities on the implementation of the law, so on the shortcomings contained in the laws that are in their jurisdiction. And of course, here we have seen, through earlier these two laws, that they actively participate in making, or proposing amendments to certain laws which, I say, have made certain failures to contradictoryness, inadequacy, inconclusion, inaccuracy and so forth. We also see, through this report, that one very important segment is the decision-making by the objections to the Election Law and we see that more than 97% of the objections made to the Election Law and by decisions made by the judicial bodies, by the Court of BiH, are confirmed in fact by the Central Election Commission's decisions. I think it clearly shows how this one state body works and how it makes decisions. Well, that's commendable anyway. What unfortunately marked this report and what I believe is not only worth mentioning, but inviting all of us to see how we behave in these situations, which is suspending the decisions of the Central Election Commission by the High Representative. Decisions have been suspended and as the report states, you have seen that this is one, let me say, precedent and legal and each other, especially when it comes to relations and opportunities in BiH. This warrant is not only suspended by the high representative's decisions, democratic institutions have been questioned in this way. One state authority has been suspended, and other judicial authorities have been suspended. And in this way and in the moves of the international community, we have rocked the whole, to say, of BiH that we want to build as the rule of law, which we want to build as a legal state. And we are indeed in one situation of legal uncertainty and uncertainty for all of us. 20 This was my obligation, and I hope that there should be an obligation for all of us here in the House of Peoples to stand up and ask ourselves whether we are passing laws that should be in the function of the people and citizens, which should be clear, accurate, which should guarantee the legal certainty of the citizens or whether we should pass laws that simply create one uncertainty and thus lead BiH. Simply today, we have a situation where in BiH, actors are politically, in some way, accusing themselves of responsibility, and given the situation that has brought to our attention by the high representative and by questioning democratic institutions, including others by imposing other rules, that today, when we are looking for solutions, I will only mention the case of the city of Mostar, it is difficult to find a solution, and the responsibility of domestic leaders is sought. Here, I really want this segment to be kind of understood in a special way and taken into account as a home, in question, and not just an individual's question, or some part of the government, or someone who answers. I specifically said this for the construction of BiH as a rule of law and for it to be ruled by the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1540	Thank you, colleague Krišto. A fellow Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1541	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I answered the word because I was one of the initiators of this conclusion, which the Constitutional Commission proposed, but I also answered the word to make a distinction between the report and the situation in the election process, the real state. And it is not disputed that the report is excellently made, methodologically, qualitatively, in all segments of the electoral process and certainly can be an example of how it should be analytically, qualitatively, so here is the synthesis of recommendations, to do this Report. And as such it has, here I am as a representative, full of support. If we start from point 4 that only the Central Election Commission has stated in the opening remarks, that this report on law enforcement in the central election commission's jurisdiction is trying to clarify the Central Election Commission's mission, I think we need to open up some things here. I will say this, in addition to what the distinguished representative Krišto has opened, it is a question of the integrity of the BiH institutions, their democratic capacity and legitimacy that is threatened directly by the decisions of the High Representative and which created one situation, which is the question of how to go forward at all, I would like to say the following. Each election cycle in the last few times has dramatically increased the number of invalid ballots. I think that this question is so underrated in terms of what it means for the democratic legitimacy of institutions and what it means for every person, every citizen of this country, that when they dress on Sundays in what I said, in a thought or another shirt and give their voice, to exercise their fundamental right. Well, we have 100,000 invalid ballots in the Federation. What's the reaction to that? What's the message here? What kind of message are we sending? What does it mean to go to the election? Not to mention some trains and stuff. Not to mention the documented cases of vote buying standing somewhere in drawers, here are the stories, and here you've had representative issues that public funds have been used for several years in advance to take positions for power. And then we're talking about fighting the corruption that's actually starting there. I don't know 21 how then we can perform democratic legitimacy and capacity to fight it if that thing is basically resting like that. So that's one essential, essential question. The second thing, recommendations say, is to implement amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, which should take effect before the decision to hold local elections. With all due respect to all members of the Interresor Working Group, and really understand this in this way, we have not received a proposal that is at the level of... We should be honest about that. And we need to see further why we didn't get it. Look, we've been here for a year, a group of MPs working on election law amendments and additions to experts, analysis, we presented it here, we had strong support, we put it on the table, it can't go through. What is the problem with not setting deadlines for forming the authorities that have caused chaos here, and what is the problem with determining the cases when Parliament is disbanded and the Presidency, if it does not deliver a proposal to the mandate within half a year, what is the problem? It is their constitutional obligation to do so within a month. I think that one of the conclusions with this should be, therefore, that the House of Nations, which has shown maturity around this debate, is to make new changes to the law in a much stronger capacity than it is now offered, as a prerequisite to take some step out of this process. The other thing I'd like to say is, is sanctions. Where are the sanctions, what are the sanctions? I agree with this indicator that the quality of the Central Election Commission decisions is unquestioned because all the facts of the court later confirmed, and that is indeed so, and that is a great quality. But what about sanctions against those who have abused the election process, please? If we don't do something about it, and here I'm going to end up in a way that I don't take up more time, so I think we should as the House of Peoples support the report, but also the Report and Support Report doesn't mean that we support this situation in the election process from the beginning to the end. There's got to be a big difference. And the second thing, that as a top priority, with capacity-building, logistics and everything else to do for the Central Election Commission and all bodies verticalized in the electoral process to the electoral board, let's make sure that, immediately after the local elections here, we commit the most legislative body to enter the fundamental change of the Electoral Law in a way that these things are no longer repeated. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1542	Thank you, Comrade Raguž. I'm a colleague of Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1543	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I just want to say a few words when it comes to this report on law enforcement in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission. Given that I have had the opportunity to directly participate in these various events in the last year, means through the Interressor Working Group, the Joint Commission on Human Rights and the Constitutional Legal Commission, and through this paper, it has been possible to see how many important and crucial issues this Report solves and what it proposes. First of all, the methodology is very good, comprehensive and has pointed to the lack of legislation. I only reported for reasons to say that in this report, and it would have been good if this report had been in the House before, perhaps even before this Interresor Working Group, to see how many illogicalities and how many unprincipled things we face in constitutional matter, in 22 human rights and all other rights that BiH citizens have. Many of the illogicalities observed through the electoral process and which point to a lot of what generally leads, perhaps in the end, and to unprincipled behavior throughout this whole process, and simply, here I will just look back on this law that we just had and from which there is a need to continue to work on it in continuity and in the next period. There are currently four Laws on Conflict of Interest in BiH. It is something that in different ways and brings them into an unequal position and all those who participate in election processes. Furthermore, it is clear that in this whole process and sanctions are not the same, many rights are limited. What I'm saying is that I absolutely support the conclusions of all three of these laws that the report has treated, because for me, they are the guideline of how we should do the normative activities, of course with what my colleagues have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1544	Thank you, fellow Rodić. The report's gone. We're closing the debate. And given that we had a positive view of the adoption of the Report itself and the recommendations on the Report, I suggest we vote first on the Report and the recommendations from the Report, and then we will talk about the conclusions. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 12 - for 11, versus none, abstention 1. _________(?) I'm sorry. Wrong. We don't have to repeat it if it won't hurt anyone. For 11, it means no one, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 7 – all for, RS 4, here is 1 erroneous abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report on the implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission for the past year with the recommendations set out in the Report. Now let's get to the bottom of this. The conclusion defined by counterpart Simić had a supplement, since you all have it in front of you that we do not have to write it again and so on, in the second row behind the word "Secret Council" add "Central Election Commission" or commission, however, BiH. The rest of the conclusion remains identical. I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 12 – for 11, against no one, restrained 1 again by mistake. Federation of BiH 7 for, 1 abstained by mistake, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the conclusion proposed by the Constitutional Commission, complementing this session, has adopted the House of Nations. 23 Since Mr. Raguž also had one addition to the conclusion, whether we should treat her in particular or remain in that writing form.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1546	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1547	Thank you very much. We're moving on to item 10 of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2011 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The commission has received knowledge of the Information. The House of Representatives is on the 28th. The session, held on 24th of this year, did not receive information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for the past year. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Col. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1549	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1550	There's no need. Thank you very much. I give my word to the motionary, if he is present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. Thank you very much. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports, I don't see any interest in the application. I'm sorry, Košarac. Here's a colleague of the Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1552	Of course, by estimating the previous commitments of our colleagues today, we cannot be silent and not commenting on the report, i.e. information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2011, where, above all, if I were to be in a position to personally state my position, I would ignore a institution like this in BiH at all. By doing so, I would ignore the very information that comes from this institution, because I would like to point out that, of course, I am expressing my position, the BiH Prosecution is a cancer in this way that works until, here is 2011. I think that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has certainly shown that there is no universal approach to 24 war crimes trials in BiH and that apparently the hostage of the international community, the mesmer of OHR, the high representative and many others who must have recently expired in BiH. If we want to develop relations in BiH, if we want to affirm our differences, if we want to develop good relations in BiH, I think that from here on out, and from this place, and from these institutions, we should come up with a unique view that the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I will also say the BiH Court, did not respond to the interests of all the peoples and citizens of BiH, and that with their deep relationship, as it is in BiH, the disturbances in BiH. That's a fact. Of course, we don't all have to agree with these views, but I would just like to point out that some war crimes cases that indicate that the Serb people have been killed in BiH since, here's to say people suspected of war crimes have been standing for 20 years. I'll tell you that a significant part of the case has been transferred from the D.A. to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that they have been standing there for 8 or 10 years. I have no argument that certain items such as the Voluntary Street, such as Jozanica near Foca, such as Sijekovec, the case of Atif Dudaković, are still unsolved in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Here, let's say there's a problem in the procedure or there's not enough evidence in one case, and in these numbered cases, what is the answer from the BiH Prosecutor's Office? What is the BiH Prosecutor's Office's office? Once again, I will make it clear that a clear signal came from the RS, a clear policy, that all those who committed war crimes should respond. But this is an institution that is a cancer of this country. As long as the BiH Prosecution is not otherwise determined on these sensitive, subtle issues, painful issues, they will have no support. Of course, by feeling very responsible for budgeting for this year, we didn't want to go out with the amendments when it comes to the prosecution, and that's why we said that we had some disagreements with the structure of the budget I don't want to apostrophe the question, and here I'm going to partially open it up, when it comes to finding the missing, I'm going to tell you that by automatism they're copying... Missing Persons Institute. And there's a situation where a family who's lost theirs, who's been looking for at least 15 years, some and 20, is being put into a situation where there's an I.D. on the crime scene and we're putting ourselves in a position to rock, as I would say, the emotions of those people who have to appear in those places. Not to mention that RS institutions have provided funds for the Memorial of the ossuary in the RS and free accommodation, space, and that the Institute would again pay the accommodation to some commercial sector in the RS and the Federation of BiH. We asked that these funds be channelled to the process of finding and that they were still significantly more intervening for the process of finding and not for accommodation, because there are very large abuses, and ultimately the audit report found it. So, of course, other colleagues will comment, this is just one part. Here, just to remind you that in the BiH Court of Justice, we had a clear testimony from people who said that the prosecutors, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, were extorting certain cases and that on the basis of such extortions, statements, people received 30.35 years in prison. It's the D.A.'s office. Is a disciplinary procedure initiated, is an investigation initiated to determine if this is really happening? But it's obviously a theme for some other gatherings and some other institutions. What is quite clear is that we will not even accept this information and, of course, for July 19th, we will also have our views on the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1553	Thank you, colleague Košarac. I'm a colleague of Simić. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a man in this area, I will focus my exposure on three questions that I believe this report does not give full and quality answers. First of all, I must remind that both the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office were founded just in response to BiH's impotence at one point to face war crimes issues and that the primary idea was that this Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court provide justice for victims, provide conditions for reconciliation and provide conditions for the future of BiH. Unfortunately, it's headed in another direction. The powers of the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office have spread so that, when you look at this structure, at least what they are dealing with are just war crimes, and I think it is the most painful issue of BiH. I think it's been 17 years since the war, and it's a matter of witnesses and victims and the possibility of biologically many who have committed war crimes not reaching the hand of justice. I fully agree with Mr. Košarac that there is no faith in this direction, no race, no political belongings, those who bloodied their hands and what is worst often called for the people to do such monstrous things in the name and in the account of the people. On my behalf and for my account, and I believe all BiH citizens, no one has had the mandate to do so and to call on both our children and our grandchildren. So I'm going to focus first on the State Strategy to work on war crimes cases. We all know how much energy is spent here, how much hope is laid in that strategy. We have to conclude that she's largely not realized. Why? Here we should have a question and clear answers whether we are still unable to deal with this problem, are we selectively approaching it, whether we are running away from it or not, or are we not yet mature to face the most painful moment of our recent past? I therefore find this issue of realisation in war crimes cases worrying and should be worrying about all institutions, starting with entities via the BiH Court of Justice, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and, of course, the BiH institutions that are obliged to provide it. The second topic, which I also think the D.A. didn't achieve some great result, is the question of human trafficking and trade. You can see from the report that last year there were 9 reports, that, I don't know, 22 indictees or suspects were included, and that the recent report confirms that BiH, according to the US position and certain services that suffer and record it, falls within the order of states that represent a very significant link on the chain. What is even more painful in these reports is mentioned in this report is that there is a link and people who are employed in the institutions of the BiH state that participate and contribute, in a certain way helping these dishonest actions. And what's worse, as victims of this, is to mention children, literally children, girls of 12 who are often networked into a prostitution ring. I think that in this direction, the Prosecutor's Office had to give a bigger report, give greater results or open a strategy to protect the victims, and thus protect BiH. And finally, the third subject I'd like to talk to you about. A report like the Report, out of math, who does what, how many numbers are received, how much is it, and it's very hard to judge. However, those from the judiciary know, since the prosecutor's institution exists, that the assessment of the performance, i.e. the quality of the prosecution's work, is measured by successful indictments. I must say that the percentage of indictments that fall before the BiH Court, when it comes to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, is indeed huge. Percent that exceeds regular standards. There must be a question of what the problem is. Is the prosecution going in unprepared and pressing charges, whether it doesn't provide evidence, or even worse, which has often occurred behind the House's pay phones, that certain charges had even political connotations, that people were often victims of political persecution. And if we mention the number of indictments, especially the charges that were falling, they were officials, 26 people who were very high on the political scene and who had some resistance to certain processes and the activities of the international community at that point. So it would be good to get a report next year so let's see the percentage of the charges that fell, which didn't get the court's verification, especially since you had a drastic indictment where you had a position for a man who was sentenced to 40 years, to me or 31, to be released. Can you imagine the trauma of this man who has been freed from justice, spent two or three years in custody, after which he was released? And no one says I'm sorry. I had a chance to see the charges I knew had to fall. One of them was the indictment of Mirko Šarović. Funny, sad, where what was written could never pass in any court. The man spent 11 months in custody, today he's a minister, but with an umbrella of the process. He would therefore suggest that in the following report we have these elements and that we can also look at the quality of the work. On the Constitutional Committee, Mrs. Budimir, who was present at the time, I do not know if she is present today, has made one argument, that it is difficult and to assess these elements because it often happens that the verdicts are being passed liberatingly, that indictments fall in situations where witnesses change their testimony. Of course, witnesses change their testimony, we're all aware of what follows the procedure, but it's the prosecutor's fault again. The Tužioc is obliged to assess whether the witness has the capacity to tell the story, whether it's real, whether he's lying. Well, after all, even though he's lying again, the prosecution has mechanisms to charge him with false testimony and to provide arguments that his false testimony has led to a legal verdict. These are the three segments I believe do not give a good picture of the work of the Prosecutor's Office in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1555	Thank you, colleague Simić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1556	I've had experience with the D.A.'s office so I have a lot of elements to talk about on that subject and I really want to say a few things. As long as we don't get an analysis of the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges, I can't accept documents of this kind, why this House asked for it a year ago and only gets obstruction, not a word of it. And again, I will repeat what I said earlier – I am deeply convinced that it is the fear of prosecutors and judges from the international community, the domestic ones, and I am deeply convinced that it is a good idea of time, that foreign prosecutors and judges come to experience, to raise quality, to introduce neutrality, here is spent on the work of the ambitions of OHR officials who used it for themselves, for their own promotion, for their own pay, and they did not raise the quality of work or the prosecution or courts at all, but rather led some kind of process that deeply reminds themselves of some permanent time under the umbrella of international institutions. I know a lot of people who were the subject of these institutions just because they had their political stance. And I know, and I have people's statements, I even have high-level representatives' statements, that some of those indictments were decided by the OHR itself, which is terrible. And that fear, the way people were set up in time, we lost one series of extraordinary domestic prosecutors and judges at the very beginning, because they had their own attitude, they were not obedient and immersive. An extremely 27 - good playoff, on all sides, experienced old judges and prosecutors, left just because people had an attitude and refused to serve as a means. But there was a relapse of that relationship. Well, I'm sure that if it were to be seriously investigated and seen that there are organized groups on the side of international institutions, those that once, today, I think it's past time. You know, if your prosecutor is a man who runs an anti-corruption team in OHR, under a corruption firm, then he'll be with the head of the OHR in Banja Luka who becomes the director of the so-called "Balkan America" company that was supposed to take control of "The Forests" of the RS, and the director of that "Balkan America" delivers information confidential to the OHR, what you have but an organized group that does so. One day we'll have to deal with that sort of thing sooner or later. I think it's better before and that we have to do it ourselves and make a serious kind of debate and then really the courts and the prosecution go where they're supposed to go. You know, it's not normal for the president, Mr. Šarović was a member of the presidency, accused, that it all fell down and nothing to anyone. It's just not normal. In no country would that be normal. I apologize if I'm longer. From that point of view, then, something must change here. And it's not that international institution that we're all supposed to be shaking in front of them. Especially since those who have done so are no longer there. Pedi and similar people who did so at the same time when they couldn't conduct their views politically, then punished people. And where they let the good news go that we can still get but the good-looking foreign prosecutors and judges to get into our justice system. I would certainly support it again, but to be experienced people, not officials who build their own place and then their unlived ambitions, and not to speak any other terms, while sitting in OHRs get that feeling of power that they can decide everything, go through our institutions, and then bring our people into an awkward situation. I was in on it, so that's where our people can't talk. There everyone's afraid of listening, TV, camera, I don't know, no comment, there's nothing to say. That's why I think it's a good idea to open this debate. I wanted to say this only because of those people in the D.A.'s office, but also because of this relationship about how I'm going to treat the vote. So I realize this is the report, basically we can't change the report, and he's probably right. But as long as this analysis doesn't open once, I'm not asking what I'm saying to be accepted, but to hear how many cases the foreign prosecutor got, how many did he get, how many did he get, how many foreign judges had cases, how much money he got for it and what he did. I really can't talk about certain elements of this kind anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1557	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. A fellow Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1558	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, good afternoon, everyone. I realized that we should be effective today and I was acting like this, the athlete of the first kind I was, I skipped everything, and I needed to say something, but here I promise I won't be like that until the end. 28 I'll vote for this D.A.'s report and I'll just say a few reasons why it should exist. The Constitutional Court confirmed, or long ago, that I do not know the exact date, the Constitutional Court confirmed the existence of these judicial institutions of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. Everyone and parliaments participated, and they can only dispute it. And talk about abolishing the Court of Justice and the D.A.'s office, not today, but we hear it over and over the media, and here after these speakers, it's just impossible for a million reasons. BiH said that it would not be able to submit an application for the EU in Europe, but that none of the countries in the ex-Yugoslavia would be able to submit an application for the EU and none could, Slovenia could not send without having these built attributes. Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which should often be on our minds, which is the Annex that speaks of refugees, returnees who say that such persons have the right to compensation from, which will never return to them. It's entity courts, I'm sorry, I can't make that decision until it's confirmed by the state court. And then how do you explain to people sometimes that they may never achieve that right? It's only part of the reason why we shouldn't think at all. And after all, it's simply impossible because here's the entity vote that prevents it, sometimes that entity vote would be misused, but here's the thing that sometimes comes in handy. But, of course, the D.A.'s problems are very high. The results are very modest. We have never received answers to many questions about war crimes, including what a colleague of Staša is saying. It's not good for the Court and the D.A. to act when we act, it seems to me that they're working just as soon as we act, and then it goes off after that. Many questions, many questions are not answered. Now I'm going to try to remember Jozo Leutar, Hakija Turajlić, Nedžad Ugljen, the ferocious murder of Garić in Doboj. I listened to the man who did it get away with it. There he is today free to walk around Doboj. It's never the end of the Ahmić story, or the people who did it there are a little bit punished, Trusina, Trussini, neither do I. She didn't even start for Casana, for Bugojna, here's to Yoshanica, for, I don't know, I don't know, and a million of those things. Of course, dobrovoljački needs to get some light. But I'll remind you, we all read, we follow, that dobrovoljački was a legitimate military target full of weapons, and that's where soldiers were killed, most of them volunteers. Now we can ask them, what will the brotherly volunteers in Sarajevo, in a country that was already recognized, nothing, I will finish mine, and you don't have to frown over it and so on, you don't have to be angry when civilians aren't killed. Well, we were listening yesterday, I don't know exactly what they're called, people who have lived in the War Room for 17 years, killed a thousand people out there on the dam. You know where they are, you know who they are, and they're only yesterday, they were only arrested yesterday. Or I remember that Vuković and Tomić case that killed also hundreds of unarmed civilians, hundreds, in one day, at one point, and were punished with 31 years in prison. He's the first one to confirm his indictment, the second one as if he was picking a throwout while this one was doing it. The man is freed and so on. Of course, it's the D.A.'s fault and the D.A. has to explain why. It bothers me, let's say that when you get Nusret Imamović, it seems to me that it's called the leader of the Wahhabi community, who says suicide acts are not prohibited, only needs to be used at the right time. And the man uses Bugojno, uses FIS, and there's a normal walk, and he says he's made an Islamic Sheria state in Upper Maoca, and there's a normal walk in that way that he's still threatening us. Well, here, I'm asking about the Barašin case. Tell me, please, here at the D.A.'s office, I know it was a disciplinary prosecutor's decision, but how is it possible that a man who said he was working with criminals, how is it possible to get back to the D.A.'s office? The reputation of Barašin returns, and it damages the reputation of judicial institutions. That's nowhere to be found, yesterday we heard on the radio, chief prosecutor of Španija 29 resigned just because he traveled several times with members of the government about their expenses. He resigned because of it, and so on. So there's a lot of examples. I, of course, don't think there's a mistake in the legislation, here I am, but there's a mistake in individuals, in judges, in prosecutors, in prosecutors who aren't angels, who aren't saints. And if this story of mine is going to cause some kind of pressure to change them, to sanction their work, here's all this story is completely justified. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1559	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. Here's the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1560	Mr. Bradrić, when you mentioned, I did not open the question at all, no one was opening the issue of the existence of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH. They exist. But when you mentioned that question, I must say that in making a decision on the legality and legitimacy of the establishment, three foreign judges and two Bošnjak voted in favour. Four judges, two Hrvat and two Srbin voted against it. The classic revote, and right now the legality, unfortunately also at the Constitutional Court, gave foreign judges who phoned whenever there was any political issue in the OHR. There's a problem right now if we have an independent judiciary at all the levels you've run. Therefore, what exists is. The second question, I did not want to talk about specific issues because I believe that, which are not finished. The pursuit of dobrovoljački I will give you an argument exactly that the D.A. had no legal reason to suspend the investigation, and it was just, without knowing the subject, from a statement from the D.A.'s Office. So, I don't know the facts, I'm not talking about facts, I'm not talking about anything, I'm just talking about the D.A.'s statement. And the prosecution informs the public that the Dobrovoljska investigation has not been suspended, that it continues and that it is going on. If the persons against whom the investigation was suspended were in command and were responsible, at the very least, it was an premature decision, because it was not possible to decide whether there was a command responsibility or not until an investigation was carried out whether war crimes existed, whether these war crimes were committed and whether there were failures of those who were responsible? Faces become civilians after capture at the same time. The prisoners have the same status as civilians. It is not disputed that the members of the Voluntary Colony were arrested, imprisoned, and according to statements from the D.A., which were transmitted by the media, I don't know if they were correct, there was torture of those persons, humiliation and war crimes. How is it possible to suspend an investigation based on command responsibility if it has not been clarified whether there are crimes and what is the connection between these crimes and command responsibility? That's the essential question. There's a lot of times around here where there's a notion of command responsibility. komandni responsibility isn't if the commander committed a crime. komandni responsibility isn't if the commander ordered a crime to be committed. komandni responsibility is if the commander wasn't in command, if he failed to oversee the units, to prevent and if the crime happened to carry out the investigation and punish the perpetrators. And today you're listening to Mr. Izetbegović when he says war crimes happened. You listen to a certain Backović, who was on the list of defendants, when he says war crimes took place there. Let the D.A. investigate. And I ask the question why did Mr. Backović not investigate when he knows as commander that the crimes were committed there? 30 We Shouldn't have opened specific objects. The fact is, in the area of war crimes, there's a lot of space and I'm afraid that time is trampling on victims and it won't affect, that many people aren't tried and convicted. I had a third one, but I forgot, it doesn't matter now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1561	Thank you, fellow Simić. A fellow Košarac player. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1562	I didn't expect us to enter objects and individual ones, because apparently any entry into individual objects is causing emotions and will cause replicas. I've tried definitely, although I'm extremely informed of certain and individual events, that I don't use this pay phone for those purposes. And I've usually tried to put out a kind of universality in my statement on these subjects. I don't think it's good to go into individual cases, especially because based on media inscriptions and views only of one party in BiH, we're not going to get what's necessary about this truth. That's where you let me down, Mr. Bradarić, because so far we've had very good communication in terms of the same things, I'd say, in a close way, we've been thinking when it comes to war crimes. I don't think it's good to be working for this pay phone today, and I sure as hell won't do it this time. I will try only to apostrophe the fact that the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH were created, imposed by the decision of the High Representative, that the involvement of foreign prosecutors and judges was in the context of achieving the universality of what was expected and what was necessary for BiH and that it was obviously not fulfilled and that we have a problem today. I would suggest to all of us here that we do not enter cases individually, because each of us has some fact and our own truth, and that it would be good for this country if there were an institution, obviously there is no, that they finally decide what happens in a fair and universal way. And that's the problem. That's the problem with this country. I also expected us to have the strength to say, let's find out the truth about dobrovoljački, to get this out of here, to determine the truth about the events in Srebrenica, to determine the truth about events in every place where war crime took place. It would be a strong message from this country and a strong message to us who are performing certain positions in this country. But I still think that you didn't have a bad intention, but that you were disabling some media inscriptions, the truth only from one side. It won't interfere with our future relations, but I think we need the strength of this House to seek a universal approach and to seek definitive justice for everyone in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1563	Thank you. A fellow Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1564	Nothing, just if you hadn't gone into individual cases, believe me, neither would I. But go back to my story and you'll see that in that, uh, congomer of those cases, 30% is Bošnjak in all of that. 31 So I was talking about universal principles and that's the way to solve it. The question of dobrovoljački, the devil took him to whoever did it. Here I ask the D.A.'s office, please speed up the process, punish those fools, the idiots who did it. I won't protect him, I won't protect him, and so on. And I'm a witness to such situations very much and I make my contribution when it comes to it, I don't see who's called and so on. And in the end, I took part in such whites as someone who helped solve the problem and so on. So here's the thing. I wasn't really talking about volunteering in the sense that one side is completely guilty. Of course, we asked around, we were wondering, so there are some crimes on this side that have elapsed from the people who were in the BiH Army, but let the Prosecutor's Office handle it once and for all, and what counterpart Simić says, it will eat that time. For another 10 years, it will eat time, witnesses disappear, no longer remember, and it simply does not exist, many are outside, they are no longer interested in BiH. Even that case, even if it was his most born people, they're not coming to testify. That's the one.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1565	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. As we have now slightly compromised the religious needs of some of us, and we have said that we will be working by 13.00 hours, I see that there are no more applications on this agenda point. Excuse me, colleague Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1566	I thought that we would objectively consider the report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and... the fact that it is the invormacija with all the sights and problems of the prosecution's work, that we will try to commit BiH institutions to finding ways to work better with the Prosecutor's Office, to find ways and modes to help them. Obviously, the debate didn't go that way. Just one request and this is my replica. Please, Mr. Košarac, don't mention Srebrenica anymore. What other truth do we need to establish in Srebrenica? He has a tribunal that found it to be genocide. The fact that you deny it, the representatives of your political party, the people of the RS, please do not mention this sacred place again. The new Jana 11th of July speaks of the character of what happened there. How much more truth do we have to find out about this? It hurts so much when you say that. We're in pain and all the other wounds that are unconfirmed, but Srebrenica is something you know and what's obvious.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1567	Thank you. We note that the 2011 Prosecution Report is on the agenda. A kolega Košarac player, a misstatement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1568	I'm trying not to go into individual cases and events in the war. The fact that there is no place in BiH where war crimes did not take place. Of course, there are certain legal qualifications that cause different types of positions in BiH again. I will always talk about war crimes in a universal way and I will always talk about war crimes both in Sarajevo and Srebrenica and all the places in BiH where war crimes took place. And there is no Nermina Kapetanović who can influence me not to make my point about the events in the war in BiH, because we are all unhappy with the war events in BiH. I didn't belong to any political options when the war was advocated. And I have consequences, as everyone here in this room has, in one way or another, about war events in BiH. And I try not to insult anyone every time. We have the right to think differently, but we have no right to... I'll tell you, when you want to talk to me about it, I'll say it was a war crime in Srebrenica, and will you say there was a war crime in Serbian villages around Srebrenica? Do you want me to tell you what the 28th Division of the BiH Army was doing? Do you want me to tell you how many Srbin died in that area of Bratunačka, Srebrenica, Gornji Podrinj, Middle Podrinj? I think there are BiH-level institutions, entity-level institutions that need to address these issues. I'll tell you, no one was responsible for those crimes. Today there are people who are responsible for the Srebrenica crime. So give strength and support to match the people who committed war crimes and the Srbin in the area. And that's why I said it was necessary to determine, you didn't follow me, you didn't follow me enough, I understand that this is what makes you feel emotional, I'm justifying it, I told you that you need to determine the truth about events in and around Srebrenica. Today we don't have that truth. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1569	Thanks, Košarac. A colleague of Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1570	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, somehow by some definition, we've been elected to this House of Peoples because by some nature we're the most authentic representatives of what we represent, and I'd say it obliges us to be the most reasonable. Such debates in the House of Peoples, the D.A.'s gentlemen, talk about the effects of the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. And don't come out of this room and blame yourself, whether Mr. Košarac, whether Mrs. Kapetanović, whether Mr. Bradarić, Simić, who participated in this conversation, Mr. Ivanić in another way and so on, that we don't understand your problems, that we don't understand this or that. I ask you to consider this a public reaction from, by definition, the most reasonable people in BiH's organs. So if we're not reasonable, then the whole system is going down. And here's where we've been brought. 16 years after everything. Or 10 years after the declarative occupation of civil, these spaces and the conduct of violent decisions and violations of human and civil rights, in which it took part, among other things, and what you represent us. You, as far as I know, haven't, some have been here recently. Note that those social reforms that have gone through all parts of this country – emancipation, democratisation, respect for certain standards, procedures, impartiality, professionalism and everything else, from the public's point of view, these people are not seen until the end in the effects of the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Because it's still considered, for these or those reasons, that these are institutions that are underprocessing certain things, they don't deal with these things in the way that the public would expect it, and yet from the point of view of the decisions that we get, we get totally dinsonant tones, completely different practice and everything that you're about to do, here you are now talking about your prosecution as your problems. You must choose, as long as you exist, for that kind of integrity compared to your past, 33 past of your institution. You don't have a problem with these people sitting here, you've got a problem with your institution's past, because it's controversial by a lot of things. If you're up to it, there's a life there. We can no longer help you, but with this kind of political and democratic pressure, because this is a pressure in your favor. The pressure to get rid of acquired habits that are such that 16 years after everything that's happened, and here I say again... you hear what you're hearing here today. And I remind you, from people who are by definition the most reasonable people in this country, imagine what others are saying. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-22-0.u1571	Thank you, colleague Tadić. With this, we've exhausted the debates on this agenda point. Since I don't see any interest in new applications, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I urge you to vote on the 2011 Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 13 - for 5, versus 7, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 5 for, 3 against, no abstentions, RS 4 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I agree with you on the 2011 report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office has not been received. That concludes the point of today's 10th agenda. Now, I ask you this, since we agreed today at the College, or at the College, otherwise the next 19th session of our House will be 19th of July at 11:00, I suggest that, in accordance with the agreement of our College today, we now end with this session of the agenda because of the previously assumed and agreed obligations of most of you here, that we do not lose the quorum, and that we continue, the 11th point continues before the agreed session, means 19. That session, otherwise, will have a summary agenda according to what we have seen so far and what we can link to the House of Representatives, so that in that day we can finish what is left of the 18th session and complete the 19th session. I'm saying this for a reason that you can plan your time, obligations, and so forth. Thank you very much. We're finishing today's work. Session completed at 13.05 p.m.
