ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12783	In line with the conclusion, I am opening the 38th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 38th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. As you know, we convened the session in accordance with Article 62(1) and (3). The Rules of Procedure have only one item on the agenda, which is the Agenda 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2013 (second reading). Ad. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013 (second reading) We passed the bill in our first reading at the 37th session of the House. The commission held its session and delivered a report that I hope you all got, and I don't think we're close. So, MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, according to the script I have, defends one amendment, and SDA Club representative SDA 10 amendments. I'm opening a debate with the expectation that we'll be getting a report from this committee soon. Dear representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12785	Thank you. The amendment refers to adding one item to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to current grants of 47.5 million KM intended to encourage 2 agriculture. And there's an explanation, and you can all read it so that I don't take up your time, and from where we would make up, because we know that we have a fiscal framework, that the budget can't be breached, and then I said that we reduce that amount by 5% and make up for it that way. And the explanation says, and the basic reason is practically that the entities that have recently adopted the budget have not allocated enough funds and that simply our agriculture will collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12786	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12787	I'm going to be very brief not to take the time, because obviously this is about to end. So, I didn't have the enthusiasm to submit amendments, but there's a proposal for one conclusion that has arisen in some way by analysing this revenue side in which it's not even forbidden by the fiscal framework to potentially increase if it can be found inside, in order to say, the framework of state resources. Before that, I would ask, here it is, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to explain this ino-credit to me, this has to do with this conclusion that I'm going to suggest. So, ino-credit according to the Global Framework of the Fiscal Council 23.422,000 I failed to obtain information that we have a contract, that this is a firm arrangement and that I have not come to the data and belief that these are certain means. So this, in my knowledge, is not a certain asset, but it's means that balance is balanced, so let's hope it doesn't go away and so on. So that balance will be maintained. And at the same time, there was no comment, let's say, that we had 50 million funds from the Central Bank in 2010, and this year it was less, less by 9 million, or less by 9 million, and in 2010, we had 50 million. The good thing is finally here, and this sumptuous income of the "Official List" in some way has been done by the state. And the next practice since last year when 7,200,000 marks from the sale of "Maršalka" entered the revenue side, I propose the following conclusion, therefore which does not coincide with the framework of fiscal and so on. To mandate the Council of Ministers to explore and realise all possibilities of obtaining state-owned assets with the consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for each specific case in order to increase the budget for 2013. Here's the record(?) I'll give it to multiplication.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12788	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. That's how I close the debate. What? _________(?) 3 [[no microphone turned on]] And I'm sorry, I didn't, I didn't see. So, distinguished representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12790	I need a little bit. Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman, here's my apologies for the delay. So here's the SDA Club, in line with the discussions that we had here at the Budget Act in the first reading, he tabled amendments, which, unfortunately, did not go through the commission phase, and we took advantage of the business opportunity to restore them and present them in a parliamentary debate. Our amendments are related to both the income and the expenditure side and what is important and what we have pointed out in the debate is that we propose that – that the income be excluded from the ino-credit, because BiH institutions do not have the need for credit debt to serve obligations in accordance with the BiH Constitution and positive legal acts. And the second amendment related to the revenue side concerns the allocation of funds from the Single Account, and we propose an increase in income from the Single Account for indirect taxation for the financing of BiH institutions of 53,481,323 KM, which is also in line with the Indirect Taxation System Act. As for the expenditure party and the spending on funds, according to amandman ii on the revenue side, also the essential amendment on the basis of our discussions here at Parliament and observations, so to say, is at the proposed Budget Act in the debate in the first reading, we propose that the BiH Ministry of Defence be provided with additional funds of 15/102,000 and be deployed as we have defined here according to certain paragraphs, starting with the need to hire or receive new soldiers, fees and so on. I think that's one important essential thing, and we explained it in the first reading, and on that basis, here's the amendment that we continue to insist on correcting the proposed legal solution. Second, the second amendment is aimed at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and we propose that additional funding be provided to this ministry in the form of a current grant, with 6 million being used for BiH's participation in obtaining donor funds. And I note that we also had this remark on the adoption of the 2012 Budget, we had promises from the Council of Ministers that, if necessary, those funds would be provided from the current reserve, to be classified. But I think it's logical that we already have them here defined in the budget and when that need turns out to be easier to react. And 10 million KM for funding the rights of Annex VII, here I am going to make a little noise, from the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That we're right about this amendment, too, is the Ministry's position to show the need.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12791	I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to refrain from talking while the debate is under way. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12792	...in fact, when it comes to this, the Ministry and the need to implement return, care for return and returnees, it is also a request from the Ministry that has shown the need to provide 40 million to fund the rights of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is in line with the adopted State Strategy. Here we are trying in this way to make this revised State Strategy see the light of the day, to provide these certain means that will in some way trigger this process of solving the problem of returning and returning. Because I'm going to repeat again, what is the draft budget in the first reading without this change literally talking about someone, let's say conditionally, closing the return process, we don't worry about that category of people. And I think it's one very important thing for both the state and its future after all. Furthermore, the fundamental amendment is aimed at the Directorate for European Integration. We think there's a certain amount of resources to be provided here, and here we've figured it out with a million, 1,062,600 KM in two directions, is it? In one direction for staff training of the Directorate, normally with technical needs so that this new set of people can work, but all along the way, in the direction of training or the launch of the second phase in the process of stabilising and joining BiH and some of the other obligations that this Directorate should meet in this question. And I think that through debate and here we have looked back as MPs to this problem or specifically to the Budget, we may have overlooked the need of this Directorate and here we are trying to this, with this amendment, to train the direkcija in these two approaches to human resources and in terms of the equipment of the Directorate that BiH can carry out these obligations on the European path. Furthermore, what we pointed out when it comes to the Border Police and its current situation and the need to solve some of the new material costs there some problems of the type of employee unification, all of what was previously pointed out and made in remarks and a union memo by the Border Police. Furthermore, this Office for Harmonisation and Coordination and Payment Systems in Agriculture and Rural Development requires certain funds. We also feel it as one of the essential issues, and here you see how much we planned for this office to be able to do, whether it should be doing these particular jobs that it's intended for. We think that without these funds and in human resources and technical terms, it can't function properly. The needs expressed by the Presidency, as well as additional funding of 310,000 KM for the development of the project and the system of control of access to the presidency building, have also been decided by the commission that it should be done, although it did not accept our amendment as precise as this. Also, the obligations of the Joint Jobs Service to carry out the previous work in terms of designing a specific project. And what we have pointed out earlier, and now we are convinced that this budget reserve planned at an amount of 8 million and something should be reduced by an increased amount and that these funds are further allocated to certain institutions so that they can function better, because if we are talking about saving in Budget, then that savings must be shown here as well. What is the experience of all of us, and we know it well at the SDA Club, that these funds have been spent mostly so far in one non-transparent 5 way. The narrow circle of people decided on their distribution, and I think it would be logical and fair for this Parliament to participate in the distribution of these funds, not to give some exclusive right to the chairman and his deputies to spend those funds on some of the needs expressed. And that, at the very least, we as the Parliamentary Assembly that approves this Budget have no information on where and how they were spent. Here are some, these are the amendments that we've submitted here, one brief explanation that here I don't take a lot of time, you have that in writing. I think this is good for him, that this is a more quality approach to making Budgets, I call on MPs, colleagues here in the Parliamentary Assembly to accept these thoughts and to support us in this initiative and to adopt these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12793	Thank you. No more charges for discussion, closing the debate. And I'm giving a 15-minute break before the plea. Until then, we expect __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12797	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I need to say only two sentences about what happened from the break you gave and which took 15 minutes, and it lasted at least 45 minutes. In the future, when you do this, there will probably be a need, then one of you chairmans in the O.R. to the MPs who are here in the O.R., and then he says, "We're sorry, the break will take another 30 minutes, so we know the six of us sitting here in the O.R. It's the least we deserve you to do and it requires, that kind of behavior and the Rules of Procedure, and also the rules, Bog, nice behavior. Well, I invite you to the Rules of Procedure and to the rules of good behavior for the rest of us who stayed here. I was leaving this session waiting for you, but the way I am, I couldn't leave, and I left Parliament behind, and I came back again. And please take care of that. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12798	Thank you very much. I think this intervention is in place and we'll try to make things right. We are joining the voting procedure for the 38th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. According to point 1. – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013. We are voting first on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić. Should I read it? If you don't need to read, then please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 12 votes to, 11 votes against, 14 abstentions, without an entity majority from the RS entity, this conclusion has not been adopted. So we're voting in the second round on this same conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have 2-3 votes from the RS against and this conclusion has not been adopted. We're going to make a statement about the amendments now. First, we declare the Amendment of Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. So 11 votes for, 23 gals against, without enough majority. This amendment hasn't been adopted. We now move to a statement on the amendment of the SDA Club's representative and ask the SDA's representative, do you agree to vote in the package or individually? [[Common discussion]] I'm just asking. So we vote individually on amendments to the SDA's Club of Representatives. 7 First we vote on amandman I. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 votes for, 25 votes against, without a general majority enough, this amandman has been rejected. We are now voting on amandman II.. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 votes for, 26 votes against, without sufficient general majority and amandman ii has been rejected. We are going to vote on amandman III.. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. 9 votes for, 25 against, 2 abstentions, without sufficient general majority and amandman III has been rejected. We are going to vote on amandman iv.e. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 for, 24 against, 3 abstentions and amandman IV has been rejected. We are going to vote on amandman v. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 votes for, 26 against, 2 abstentions, this amandman has also been rejected. We move on to the Declaration on amandman vi. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 for, 24 against, 3 abstentions and amandman VI has been rejected. We move on to the Declaration on amandman vii.. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. With 9 votes against, 24 against, 2 abstentions and amandman vi has been rejected. We are going to vote on amandman vi. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With nine votes against, 25 against, two abstentions and amandman vi has been rejected. We're moving on to Amendment IX. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With seven votes to, 26 against, two abstentions and an amandman to IX has been rejected. We are moving on to a statement on amandman X. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 10 votes for, 25 against, 1 abstention and amandman x has been rejected. So that's how we ended up making a statement about the amendments. 8 And we move to vote on the draft law on the Budgetary of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2013, in the second reading, with a positive report by the Committee on Finance and Protractor, without conclusions. Based on the College's proposal, the conclusions will be discussed after the Review Report, a new one. Prepare to plead. Based on this proposal, let's vote. With 21 votes to, 7 against, 3 abstentions, with enough entity
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12800	We didn't vote,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12801	And you're not, again. Let me see. I don't have any applications. For business intervention as far as I can see, we have Salko Sokolović, right? Or here's this one, giving up fellow Sokolović. Šefik Džaferović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12802	Mr. Chairman, you did the right thing when you took a break to get the Commission report, that's fine, correct. Now that you've made a problem so the break instead of 15 took at least 45 minutes, it's a garden now. We have received the Commission's report and what is written in the Commission's report, when, when those who vote for Budget, when they vote for Budget, vote for the Commission report which accepts this Budget. You have no right as a College, past Parliament to change any part of the Commission's report. You don't have the right, you know it's procedure. There are conclusions from the Commission and please resolve this situation. Who are you, even though you are the chairman, to lead this House and we respect it, but who are you, compared to this House, to change the Commission report? _________(?) We chose you... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12803	And you can run my shift. But only those who chose me, not you. So let me get this straight. In a break that lasted longer than we announced, we had as a College of Consultations with the President of the Commission and a number of members of the Commission. I have to admit, we didn't have a meeting of the Commission. And by reading these conclusions, we have concluded that the adoption of these conclusions would actually change the height of the Budget, and that we, I say, are not to say, we are not authorized to do so at this point, nor are we ready. Therefore, our proposal is common, to declare on the Budget, on the Budget of BiH institutions for 2013, which is therefore an integral part of the Report positively and on the amendments that have been rejected, but without these conclusions, with the fact that after the revision that is now followed by all nine institutions, the agreement with the Commission's leadership is done first on these conclusions, and then the institutions that are holding it together, so to speak to them, and to fuck. Therefore, I once again ask that you prepare for a plea and we vote, therefore, on the Budget of the BiH Institutions. Mr. Šefik Džaferović again. What is it now, a business intervention or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12804	Well, Mr. Chairman, there's no point in understanding that. It's not again, it's coming through the Rules of Procedure because it's right and it's coming through the Constitution because I'm right and it doesn't say it's happening again, what is it now? Anyway, Mr. Džaferović, please tell me what you've got. I have to fix you up for a stenogram, so you don't get into a stenogram, I mean, you've said a lot. Please lie down, you have, or we have a report from the Commission which contains conclusions. You as a College have no right to delete any part of the Commission Report. And to repeat, the Commission's conclusions concern erasing the team. These are the conclusions of the Commission. They're here, so I don't read them, or to cut the team. You don't want to adopt those conclusions, tell the public we know where we are. So, if I'm not going to say what you're supposed to do right now, go ahead and handle this business thing. You can't put the budget to the vote by saying that only part of the Commission's report that accepts the budget as it is, and that the conclusions are ignored. Here's what I'm gonna say at the end. What you can do is you have amendments to this report, to change the report, and then we vote, as we always voted on a document with the Commission report. So much, not a document with a part of the Commission's report. I mean, this is really a practice that hasn't been here in Parliament so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12805	Thank you. Dear representative, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12806	To overcome this situation, I suggest we work in a way that is common, to make a statement about the law, and then to vote on the amendments proposed in the Commission report below. Well, as it goes, we're not leaving anything for later. And now at the moment, so let's make a statement about the conclusions. And that would overcome the problem. Why would we leave, if any of these conclusions were to be interesting, we'll repeat in the review report and ask to be done on the next cycle. There's no point leaving this for later. The conclusions of the Commission should be made known without delay. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12807	So, the proposal of the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić is to make a statement on the Budget Proposal, and then later, after that, on the conclusions. So, I'm putting the draft budget on a statement. I thought my colleague Salko gave up in favor.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12808	I didn't give up. All I care about is whether the President of the Finance and Budget Commission held his position or the position of the Commission? If it was the Commission's position, to stop this a little bit, so that we could agree with the other members of the Commission on these... (?) There's no microphone involved. Don't turn us on now. Well, I will, if we will, and we will be bothered here, if we turn on our muscles, that we may push ourselves to the end. Here's what the President of the Commission has to say, if you're not able. Well, no one can derogate the work of the Commission. So if we've concluded something on the Commission, we've decided. Professor, don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12810	I would ask, so I would ask the MPs to finish off my colleague Sokolović. So, we've had informal consultations. I did not say here that the President of the Commission spoke on behalf of the Commission. Therefore, there is no need to discuss it further now. We have a proposal and I think it is acceptable and here are the members of the College to agree, to make a statement on the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2013, and then to move on to the conclusion statement later. Prepare to plead. Vote now. I find that with 25 votes for, 8 against, 4 abstentions, with enough entity majority, the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2013. As was the proposal, therefore, of the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić, shall we, what is the proposal of colleague Majkić, yours? Should we vote on the conclusions in the package or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12811	No microphone 11 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-4.u12812	In a package. So four Commission conclusions in the package. Prepare to vote. Who's in? You vote, here's the vote. I find that with 11 votes against, 18 against, five abstentions, no general majority, these conclusions have been rejected. I'm closing the session and I'll see you at 18, if Bog will. Session completed at 7:52 p.m.
