ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12551	I would ask distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, members of the Council of Ministers and guests to take their seats so that we can begin the session of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 37th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of NGOs, representatives of the media. The session also called on the main auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, the president of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the director of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH and the chairman of the BiH Appeal Office, to discuss materials from their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by Saša Bursać and Boško Tomić. According to the information service, the session is attended by 37 MPs and I agree that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session agenda, I would like to note that we added to the agenda: point 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2013 (first reading). Point 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (proposed by the Joint College of both homes). Point 19. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Nermin Purić as member of the Joint Committee on European Integration, on a personal request. And point four. Amendments II and III to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been complemented by the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is negative. 2 So I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear representative Beriz Belkić reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12552	It's no big deal, but here's the thing, if I understood you well at point 3. You said this was a point, that this Bill on Budget was in the first reading, so if that's the way it should be in the invitation to say it's the first reading. So one more intervention, so to speak, forms, to satisfy the form, to stand in the call that this is the first reading. Thank you, because you said it yourself is the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12553	Thank you. So, I don't see any more applications for a debate on the agenda and I find that the 37th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 36th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New issues of representation; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No: 01,02-02-1-49/12 of 29.11.2012; 4. Proposal for Amendments II and III to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Božo Ljubić, Niko Lozančić, Dragan Vrankić and Mato Franjičević, Amendment No: 01-01-35/12 of 29.08.2012, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-31/12 of 13/07.2012. (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 35th session of the House of Representatives held on 23.10.2012; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-41/12 of 11.10.2012. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality, Law No: 01-02-1-44/12 of 08.11.2012. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Committee for Gender Equality, Law No: 01-02-1-43/12 of 08.11.2012. (first reading); 9. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-42/12 of 11.10.2012. (first reading); 10. Report from the Commission of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-32/12 of 16.07.2012. (first reading); 3 11. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2011, material of the Office for the Review of Appeals of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01/4-16-1-506-2/12 of 31.10.2012; 12. And the star on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Higher Annual Capital Investments of BiH Institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-1162/12 of 10.10.2012; 13. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The management of the BiH fleet in the institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-11166/12 of 12.10.2012; 14. Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the priorities set out in the European Partnership with BiH document 2008-2012, material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration, issue: 01,02,03/6-06-1279/12 of 15.11.2012; 15. G update report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-50-19-1261/12 of 13.11.2012; 16. Report by the Committee of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the 2011 report on the work and business of BHRT, material of the BiH Radio-Television Management Board, issue: 01.02-50-19-580/12 of 30.04.2012; 17. A statement on the initiative of MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović from the 35th session of the House of Representatives, held on 23.10.2012, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly, I submit a parliamentary initiative. I have repeatedly launched the initiative and asked for the organisation of a public debate on higher education. I am now relaunching the initiative to hold a debate in the light of: - the absence of the process of accreditation of higher education institutions, - the failure of reforms despite a series of projects financed by international community funds, - the opening of new higher education institutions and the flood of diplomas from private universities, - the rise in youth unemployment with university diplomas’; 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Committee of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (proposed by the Joint College of both homes); 19. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Nermin Purić as a member of the Joint Committee on European Integration. We move on to, here you go, colleague Šefik Džaferović's business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12554	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have a business intervention. We opened this issue this morning on the Constitutional Commission, and here's my colleague Belkić updated it here at the House session. And all that would be fine, you said when you said in the opening part that the agenda was complemented, that it was complemented by the point – the Bill on Budget of Institutions and International Obligations BiH number and that, since then and then, first reading. And that's fine. I was surprised that after the intervention of Mr Belkić, when you read the agenda, you only said – Budget for 2013 and international obligations for BiH the number of which, since then and since then, you have not said which reading is. You must, therefore, when determining the agenda, officially when you read it, you did not show what reading was after the debate. You must, the chairman, say that 4 is the first reading, because Budget follows the basic legislative procedure. You as a College can cut deadlines as much as you want and how you want and determine sessions, it is yours, but Budget follows the basic legislative procedure. We have received a proposal from the BiH Presidency, as Constitutional Proposer of Budget, according to normal, regular procedure, as well as our Rules of Procedure, in Articles 128 and 129, envisions. But there came a letter from the Council of Ministers asking us to adopt Budget by emergency procedure, not referring to a single member, and that word of urgency has been underlined. It may be some speedy procedure, an invitation for you to cut deadlines, I understand that, but it's not an official emergency procedure under Rule 127 of this Rules of Procedure. And that may have introduced a complete confusion, and so please repeat what the agenda point is today complemented by Budget, whether it is the first reading or it is without any reading of how you cited it by explaining what the agenda is after the discussion on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12555	I thank my colleague Džaferović. I've just signed, so the new agenda you're going to get now and we're considering point 3, so the adoption of the budget in the first reading. As for yours, let me put it this way, letter intervention, it is true that the Bureau in its memo has not been determined on the procedure. And I also understood the Council of Ministers' letter as a recommendation or as an appeal, because the Council of Ministers is not even an official proposing, it just prepared the Budget. So here's the thing we've made clear, I hope. So we're going to go over the agenda, point one, Ad. The adoption of the minutes of the 36th session of the House of Representatives You've got a log from the 36th session. Any objections? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to second point, Ad. 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12558	So it's not that I don't understand what you're talking about, but it's already slowly becoming a practice and, therefore, I don't think it's justified. And I will use my right to comment on the answer I received. So I asked for parallel data on the effects of Parliament's work in the 2006-2010 term. and Parliament 2010-2014 for the first two years of the term of office. Here, you have had the opportunity to see, on this we insist for a simple reason because it was said when the first call of ministers was confirmed when we said – God Bog this mandate to be and close to the previous one. We're told it's a curse and so on. This curse looks about like this, look, I wouldn't comment much, in my term of office for the first two years of 2006 to 2010, 80 laws were passed, in this term for the first two years of 36. The truth for the will of this mandate is preceded by the acquisition of information and knowledge because three times more reports and the receipt of information have been adopted. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12559	Thank you. We don't have any new comments. Moving to Subpoint b), b) New Agents' Issues Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12561	Thank you, Mr. President. I warmly welcome you all. I will, in writing, because I have been a little late, not to take up time, to form negotiating teams for the EU, so I will just deliver in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12562	Thank you. Honourable representative Danijela Martinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12563	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll turn over my question in writing. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12564	Dear Representative Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not giving up my question in writing, I'm going to ask an oral question. It's a question of the Federal Minister of Transport and Communications. 1. Why isn't he doing technical tests on a vehicle in the Federation? And two. Who is responsible for the new situation, and who will suffer any damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12566	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have had one question since recently at a meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers on the agenda, which was proposed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda, there was also a point of the agenda – Draft, I do not know exactly, or a proposal for a law on the formation of a TV channel in Croatian within the framework of the Public TV system. At the proposal of the Transport and Communications Minister, Mr Damir Hadžić, the item was removed from the agenda with the obligation that such material does not exist in the ministry and that the legislator of such a possible law should be a resolute ministry. And you, Mr. Chairman, have tried to launch several initiatives here in Parliament on the subject, meaning TV channel in Croatian and public debate in Parliament, but unfortunately there is nothing. So I ask Minister of Transport and Communications Damir Hadžić – Is there a draft or draft law or any material in the Ministry of Transport and Connection and related to the Croatian TV channel? To remind the current deputy minister, who is sitting here, that such material exists, then I, as a representative, is probably all colleagues in Parliament, as well as the general public, are in a dilemma, or we are confused about it. - And does the Council of Ministers have any intention and when to launch law-making activities after the introduction of TV channels in Croatian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12568	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12569	No microphone 7 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12570	He's delivering a parliamentary question in writing. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12571	Thank you. I've been thinking about asking questions to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but I've decided to transform it, since there's no minister here, but they have other ministers, so I'm glad I can direct this to the Council of Ministers. That's shorter questions, I'll read them, because I see that we're in a hurry somewhere, and I'm pleased that we should roll up the sleeves. 1. When can we expect to establish supervision of banks at BiH level in accordance with the BiH Constitution, Article 3 d) and Article 7 and thus ensure its effective functioning according to the basic Basel principles? 2. When can we expect a BiH-level bond law in the parliamentary procedure? 3. What about removing shortcomings or shortcomings in the proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport and when will it be on the agenda of this House? 4. What is the Council of Ministers, what does the Council of Ministers do to adapt the legal framework to EU standards on compatibility and control of free zones? 5. When will the Council of Ministers offer a model of permanent distribution of income from indirect taxes between state and entity, and Brcko District? Six. What does it feel like to create a coherent legal and institutional framework for small, medium-sized enterprises in the implementation of the Charter of the same? Seven. What has been done so far and what seems to be the creation of IT security policy and the establishment of a continuous process of risk analysis? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12572	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12573	The Honorable Chairman and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I have one parliamentary initiative and one group of questions, and it concerns the same thing, related to the consequences of the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets on the “Barbara“ polygon by locals in Glamoc municipality. I sent the initiative to the House of Representatives College, but I don't see that it's on the agenda today, and accordingly I'm setting it up as an initiative, given that it's very important that it happens as soon as possible. Why is this so urgent? The ‘Barbara“ military polygon at Glamoc serves to destroy mine-explosive assets and has been carried out since 2006. Years. Recently, the head of the Municipality of Glamoc 8 sent a dramatic letter to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, which discusses the state of the "Barbara“ polygon, which makes daily life impossible for citizens of the Municipality of Glamoc. In the meantime, I was informed that certain institutions that were investigating the land in Glamoch municipality found that it was heavy metals that were poisoned, poisoned the area, and I think this Parliament should be made known as soon as possible. Accordingly, it means that my initiative is to organise this group of issues and debates at the House of Representatives, and to better prepare for that, I have prepared certain questions for the Ministry of Defence that will allow debate. So, this is: – Who is currently destroying ammunition by the method of detonation on the “Barbara“ polygon? Is there an elaborate on pyrotechnic consent to destruction? Are there prescribed technological conditions for such work? Is there an analysis of the chemical properties of the soil on the “Barbara“ polygon? What time interval does it destroy? And when does a field contamination test take place? And other questions. In order to shorten my presentation, I ask that both the initiative and these questions be considered as soon as possible so that we can also organise a debate at Parliament on the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12574	Thank you. I just want to inform the honourable representative that we have had this item on the agenda at the College, so we have it, the initiative to the competent commission, it is the Joint Defence and Security Commission and as soon as the Joint Commission does its part of the job, so it will be on the agenda. Dear Representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12575	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will not read the questions, I just want to point out that the issues concern what is perhaps most important today in BiH, which is the conditions for BiH to overcome the problems that arise from Croatia's EU accession. The fact is that we get a lot of information about jobs being done, but not all jobs are done. That is why I am asking these questions to the Ministry, the Council of Ministers, or the Directorate for European Integration. Thank you very much, in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12576	Thank you. Honorable representative Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12577	Mr. Chairman, co-chairing, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, present guests. The UN General Assembly declared the International Day against Violence Against Women by Resolution 54/134 of November 25th, this date is to be taken as the first day of the 9th International campaign to mark 16 days of activists in the fight against violence against women and to last until December 10th. The support of men to this campaign is wearing a white ribbon that actually represents a man not violence against women. By wearing a white ribbon, men commit themselves never to commit, justify or prevent violence against women and girls. Dear colleagues, thanks to the Federation of BiH's Gender Centre, you today have one white ribbon in front of you and I invite you on behalf of our Commission for Gender Equality and the Federation's Gener Centre to support its wearing of the 16-day activism against violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12578	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12579	It's a matter of the Council of Ministers. So, please provide detailed information on the implementation of the Council of Ministers' conclusions from the 20th session, held on 18/09/2012, and on the information on a tripartite meeting of representatives of BiH, the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on border management. There are eight conclusions, they are extremely important, they are spoken of today, these days they speak and stand out as a problem, and we have no information from the official institutions. So it would be good for this Parliament and the public to know what is going on with the realization of these eight conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12580	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12581	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, I would ask that I be given an answer regarding problems encountered by exporters at border crossings, since on the side of BiH for a transition, for example. materials that are so-called dangerous materials or explosives, scheduled border crossing in Gradišca. On our part, the Ministry of Security has ordered that this border crossing, i.e. for these goods, be used by the border crossing in Jasenovac, but on the other hand, there is no such decision in Croatia, which means that it is not in line with the neighbouring country, so that our exporter one from Prijedor, for example. He must go to Izecic for the customs of the goods as it is harmonised at that border crossing. There are also objectively another series of border crossings where we have a problem where customs goods are crossed by our exporters on the one hand by BiH, on the other hand, by our exporters, they could practically only cross the Sava route to the other side, as such goods are not customs. 10 So, the Ministry of Security and others in charge of the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, are the address I ask about the harmonisation of customs crossings for customs duties on both sides, especially when it comes to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12582	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12583	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to ask two questions about the prosecution's work. Lately, a lot has been commented by Republika Srpska's chief prosecutor, Mr. Švraka, where he decidently said there is no political will to prosecute any crime, primarily economic-financial crime. I would ask the following question: 1. Is it true that Republika Srpska's chief prosecutor, Mr. Švraka, suspended investigations into economic and financial crime in 120 cases in his term at the RS Special Prosecutor's Office, and in just three cases confirmed the indictment? 2. How is it possible that the Banja Luka District Court does not keep records of the persons for whom it has given consent for listening? So, if these are cardinal gaps in the law, so it's cardinal, that's the kind of thing in Biafra you won't find in their regulations. To answer that question since you know that the court is obliged to form a listening object, it seems to me that in these cases it goes over the phone. So it is a very important question and it is a very important question for judicial legislation if this is so, if it is not possible, it is not provided by law then by emergency procedure. This is where the perpetrators sit, let the preparations amend and supplement the law in this regard. And let it be embodies once and listen to the pulse of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12584	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12585	Mr. Chairman, I will refer my question to the Council of Ministers in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12586	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12587	I thank the chairman. Here, I don't know what my intervention is called, but it's also a parliamentary question, and an initiative, and a repeat initiative and so on. Respecting, of course, the conclusions made by this House, or the College of the House of Representatives, not to ask parliamentary questions to the College, but here I will really have the need to perhaps contribute, with my answer, to the clarifications. So, on 24 November 2012, pardoned in 2011, the BiH Party's MPs referred to the parliamentary procedure of the initiative to put economic problems on the agenda of one of the Parliament's meetings, even with a sign of urgency, and we even called for the debate and call and representatives of the competent international institutions present in BiH, of course, participants of all those levels of government that are relevant for the discussion of such species and so on. So, on November 24th, we set out in the parliamentary procedure of this initiative. On November 29th, it reached the House of Representatives College, which was sent by the College to the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development on 9 December. After unanimous support from the House of Representatives. On January 12th, this year, therefore, almost a year ago, the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development gave its opinion. To mention, there was also no vote against, when it was concluded that the College was asking the Council of Ministers to make up adequate material. So, on many occasions this year, we have urigated the fact that the economic situation in BiH has deteriorated. Here, we've been a year after, so we've been putting up with this initiative for over a year, and here's a chance for us to maybe even ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12588	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12589	First, has the Council of Ministers been able to prepare at least a piece of that material in the past year? Did the College ever send the Council of Ministers to conclude this and did the College ever consider it necessary for a year to urinate the Council of Ministers prepared material and finally put this agenda on the agenda? We have today...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12590	Thank you. Time's over 45.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12591	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12592	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12593	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I understand that you're in a hurry to meet some conditions by 12:00 tomorrow, but I have to read at least two of these parliamentary questions. I'll be very brief. The first question is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Minister Sredoje Nović. Namely, on 06.08.2012, material bearing the title – Facts about Sutorina, which was not responded by the minister until today. On 09.07.2008, at the 32nd session of the House of Representatives, I also asked a question about the status of Sutorina, or the country as it is called on the expert. I repeat the question – What will the Council of Ministers and the State Commission for Borders do to bring back BiH sea land of 72km square, with two catastrian municipalities, such as Sutorina and Krusevica? Will the Council of Ministers and the State Commission, in this regard, approach, within its jurisdiction, the resolution of this issue in the same way as the other current territorial divisions that are conducted between the former republics after the display of the SFRY? Another question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice – Who and under what law oversees the use of technique so-called. An electronic intercept by SIPA? I'd like my delivery answered as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12594	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12595	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will respect your recommendation not to ask parliamentary questions, although I have prepared them for the Council of Ministers. But as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, you did it on behalf of us, which, of course, is common, but here I am on my own behalf. I welcome the permanent presence of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, with my numerous team, and this is a new practice that I am looking forward to, but for the next session, I announce that there will be parliamentary issues that I have prepared. And of course last session I also did, I couldn't comment, respecting your recommendation, the answers I've already received. So I'm just now announcing that it will be, and I'm going to deliver them in writing. And once again, I welcome this new practice that will give more quality work to our Parliament and where we have representatives of the Council of Ministers present. Thank you very much, I speak for myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12596	Thank you. I also had one parliamentary question, relating to the lack of an office, the Regional Office of the State Agency for Radio security in Mostar, not after five years of adoption of the Law, not after five years of opening the Office in Banja Luka and four years after the opening of the Sarajevo Office, there is no office in Mostar. But there's an explanation here in writing, so you'll have a chance to see. So we end the debate on this point, i.e. we end the agenda point – Representative issues and comments on the answers received. 13 And we move on to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013 – Proposer: BiH Presidency The proposer is the BiH Presidency. The law was delivered in parliamentary procedure, 29.11.2012. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and the committee responsible for finance and the budget, I hope you get it. The College of the House in the Extended Chamber concluded that after the first reading discussion, the vote was immediately held and that representatives were left until 17:00 to submit amendments, followed by a session of the Committee on Finance and Budget. After receiving the report, the 38th session of the House of Representatives will be held to discuss the draft Budget Law in the second reading. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12598	It appears that a statement by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, will come true that the BiH authorities, i.e. the BiH institutions, or this Parliament, will adopt three budgets in one calendar year. He only failed to say the following – one of the three was adopted counter-constitutionally. Do you agree, Mr. Bevanda? You disagree. Great. I don't know where such a practice exists, that the budget in the current adoption for the previous year, like we did? And the BiH Constitution clearly says, of course, you disagree with the constitution, it clearly says it is being adopted by the end of the current year for the next year. The next Budget which was also adopted this year was adopted, of course, by violating all procedures prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, deadlines and so on. Here, and this one broke all the procedures laid down by the Rules of Procedure. So, by 15 October, the Bureau was due to deliver to this Parliament the draft budget, and this House of Representatives all actions related to the reduction of deadlines and all other actions related to the adoption of the Budget, they had to be completed by 15 November. We're doing it today. And it is still being placed in the public of information, i.e. the news that for the first time the budget is confirmed, of course, by the centres of civil initiatives with joy, and they confirm it, that it will be adopted for the first time during the current year, forgetting that it is the only time, and in the context of procedures and everything else that should be respected, this was the last time it was done in December 2010. Here, Mr. Vrankić confirms it and he's the real source for it. But here, it's about that procedural aspect that we know, of course, plus this gymnastics with first and second readings, amendments and so on. Nothing new. So, if this debate makes any sense today, at least as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say something about these principles. Looks like we're going to be getting word to this Budget today, how things are going. So the framework is set, the International Monetary Fund, citizens are waiting, deadlines and so on. The role of this Parliament will be taken into consideration by the receipt of knowledge without talking about the position of the promoter. And it's really high time to assess whether the Presidency, regardless of what the Constitution overlooks, whether the Presidency is an institution that is competent and whether it's a common practice that we put the Bureau 14 in a position to propose Budget. I can ask today who's on behalf of the promoter here? Has any Presidency authorised or has the chairman of the Bureau or a member of the Bureau come as a proposal to explain certain items to us? So in practice it's quite unusual and impractical. So I think you should keep that in mind. I consider, regardless of all the debates and opinions expressed these days etc., a depressing approach to institutions, reduction, consumption, etc., etc., not to talk about a key problem. A key problem that directly affects the level and manner and structure of the creation of the budget is the economic situation in BiH. But no one will talk about it. So this budget is the result of an economic situation in BiH that lasts back 2-3 years, which has escalated. But we don't want to talk about it. So we can switch from one item to another, take off, reduce etc., but without economic progress we cannot discuss the quality budget. And we practically, he said well, I think the MP in the National Assembly, because I've been following all the budgets these days, and so on, well said the MP at the National Assembly of the RS that Budget in RS is in debt, and this one here is static, so to speak, and he's in some way holding water, let it just survive, not analyzing objective needs, establishing new institutions, functioning them, modernization and so on. So this budget is practically the result of negative economic trends. On the side of the struggle between the entities and the state, who will win more and how they will win, etc., regardless of the clear definition that the Budget is BiH, i.e. the Budget Institution of BiH has a primate relative to the entity budgets in the distribution of funds. So he's practically the result of a bad economic situation. In this context, I would like to remind you that the platform's software project announced investments, announced image repairs, announced the launch of electricity projects, highways, etc., etc. The economic indicators that are being published these days, as far as I understand them, are alarming. So I'm bringing into contact with the level of this Budget, the quality of this Budget with the failure to execute the promised programme project platform of election winners in these last two years. You heard your colleague Azra talk about how a year and a half ago, in December 2011 we asked to discuss here, to call entity governments, to call the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, to try some contexts of economic policy globally, indicatively. We now have a situation that people per entity and so on. They make autonomous economic policies, and so on, as if they're enough for themselves, which, of course, won't yield a result. This economic policy must respect both the situation in the region and the world, etc. So, of course, when we're in the second reading, I'm going to talk about something concrete. I'm not going to have an amendment, because this is definitely a variant -- we're getting knowledge, and so on, don't touch anything, the International Monetary Fund and so on, so I'm not going to get into it, but I'm going to say some things. And that one small remark, therefore technically, is missing the information about the execution again. Therefore, the non-compliance of obligations, when it comes to submitting the Reports for the previous, or the current year and the adoption of the Budget, are inconsistencies. And then the promoters, i.e. processors, can't give us information about the execution, but maybe in 9 months, it could have been done for the first 9 months of 2012. This is how we have a comparison of the 2012 and Budget 2013 budgets. I think a better-quality approach could be created if we had that execution section. And finally, it looks like it would be good to remember, I don't know if it's known throughout BiH, but there's a saying here in Sarajevo that could be applied in practice to our today's saying -- it's not the mother of the carala or the ugly son who gambled, it's what he took out. So the authorities in BiH go from debt to debt and it can be a road without returning. 15 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12599	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Vice-President, Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12600	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members, ladies and gentlemen. Given the number of reported and the way this session was opened, I felt it was necessary to remind this House that the Parliamentary Assembly, not only this House, had been making budgets for several years back. And then when we were both in position today when we were opposition. And then when I was in opposition today when I was in position. When we did gymnastics when we were in position and now we're criticizing gymnasts when we're in opposition. In accordance with Article 106 of the The Rules of Procedure of 2003 to 2006 adopted Budget here at the same session in both readings. Article 106. The rules of procedure have not been changed since 2006 until today, and it is the law, if the House considers it to be a high degree of urgency or not so complex, it can move on to another reading. I was in a position back then not agreeing to the way in which the Budget was brought to this Parliament at the time. And I have asked at all costs that this Parliament has so much power to make amendments. And that what he gets as drawn up by the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, we as parliamentarians have the right and to consider and to change. And since 2007, according to the new Rule of Procedure 128, and with 2010, and you mentioned it, deadlines have been cut, but it has been discussed in the amendments(?) And it wasn't a practice like that until 2006 to pass laws at the same session. I think that was good. Although we have done gymnastics and then, I will remind my esteemed colleague, Beriz Belkić, in 2007, that the Finance and Budget Commission at one session, which was the request of the House, was also considered in the first and second reading of the law, adopted 8 amendments and adopted such a draft budget here. So gymnastics has always been in this House. The question is, was there any will for gymnastics? In the House of Peoples, which is the same part of this Parliamentary Assembly, as they like to say equal home, was an even worse situation or better, depending on who was in opposition or position, so from 2003 to 2006 the same 100th member as our 106th member, adopted Budget in both readings at the same session. And to make it even better, they proposed and adopted an emergency procedure from 2007 to 2009. I'm asking people who are likely to answer, whose party president is now in the House and he's been to this day, and what does the Rules of Procedure say that Budget can be adopted by an emergency procedure? According to which member of the Bureau can the matter be considered by an urgent procedure, and how did it not bother anyone? As it was a legal, legitimate act, as so far it could have been done in the House of Peoples and now it's dressed to be a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, etc., etc. Gentlemen, let's get back to the work we've got. He's serious and every year more and more burdensome, where MPs have been brought in, and I really agree with all those who say we've come to a position where we're watching them suggest things without our influence, without our knowledge. I suggest that we consider today in a way that makes this House known that Parliament is also asking itself and that the House is asking itself, but to cut maximum deadlines, given that everyone has done so before us and that the time at this point is a limiting factor. 16 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12601	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12602	Well, Mr. Živković, believe me, I do my job seriously, of course, from the opposition platform in this House, and I hope you don't expect me to praise some things that are clearly unacceptable. When did I say a very large finding that it was against the constitution?I'm saying it still is. Read the Constitution and you will see when the Budget is brought in next year in the current year, and look at the dates when we did it. Also when I said it was a breach of procedure, I listed the data and listed the dates foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. It is true, I agree with you, that there have been gymnastics and earlier years, but it is also true that in 2009 for 2010 we adopted Budget in the law of the envisaged deadlines and according to a politely acceptable procedure with the possibility of amendments and so on. What was compared to this year's is, are pushups, this is more painful today. So there's a huge difference, there's a huge difference, and this has never happened that we adopt three budgets in one year, two of which under such circumstances as I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12603	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12604	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I need to just say a few words for the presentation of the esteemed deputy chairman, Živković. It is true, all the facts that you have presented about Parliament's behaviour since 2006, so that's true here, so these are facts. I'm the only one who thinks that you've drawn the wrong conclusion from these facts, so you didn't need to replicate to those who insisted today that this, to clarify what the Budget reading is. It was always known that there was a first reading and a second reading, and it was true that those readings were combined by article 106, but it was first and there was a second reading and it was told to merge. It is true that the intervention of the College was related to the deadlines between the first and the second phases, you shortened, you have the right to do so, and it is also not controversial, but it is all, therefore, said. What I've been saying today, I've said can't go like this without a quote that's reading. It has to be said that it's the first reading. What's going to be next is now another thing. And you did it in the end, so there's no dilemma, but it never happened, let's just say it's going to be a long deadline for the amendment phase, under the name of, of course, a long time period so that someone doesn't get me wrong, I don't know when we're going to end the debate today, a few hours, you can leave and a few minutes, I mean that's funny. It's better not to do something like this than to honestly say the situation is the same, 17 is the way it is, and then we go this way, and no, here's the amendment to be delivered by 5:00 today, it's really too much time, that a few minutes might somehow pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12605	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12606	First, I believe that all MPs from the RS have received an amended and updated agenda, where it is clearly stated in point 3 that this is the first reading. Look at the Cyrillic who received the proposal, here it is clearly seen that it is the first reading. Who made a mistake in the version of the other two languages I really had nothing to do with it. And I'm not going to replicate that because I think it's clear. Secondly, I have led you to the fact that so far in this House, the difference between the emergency procedure, which has been in the House of Peoples in a few years, the inability to make amendments, and here in Parliament in the House of Representatives in 2006 when even the deadline has been shortened, but giving the possibility for amendments, is a huge difference, a huge difference. And third thing, this budget came here to Parliament on 29.11. Thursday. Whoever wanted, from Thursday to this day 7 days, to consider this document, to write of course and amendments, had, in my view, enough time to look at it carefully and to technically only work on amendments in this five-hour period, so that this short story, which I think is a little too tight, but allow 7 days to look at it, is sufficient guarantee that there is still a good will in this House of Representatives to respect all MPs and that such a deadline for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12607	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12608	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome you gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues and I wish you a successful work at today's session. So, we got a colleague of Živković, and the other two letters on this agenda where it clearly states that the first reading is so I think that every dilemma on this issue is removed, but the question is whether we're going to lead the debate on what's on the agenda or we're going to try to compete in principle. If we're going to have a game in principle, then be prepared to take some time to read the synograms from a session from a previous time when the budgets were adopted and to quote the individual and representatives of the clubs and our fellow parliamentarians as they applied in that period of the same matter, if we're going to play that game. Okay, so it's not a dispute if you want 18. But I don't think we need it because it's a waste of time and it absolutely won't have an impact on the final outcome of the job that we're sitting here for today. And to put it short, I don't have a problem if we, for example. About maybe my faster ride, the suggestion that someone who adheres to all traffic signs and drives by regulations, I'll accept that. But if some Šumaher, who absolutely respects nothing, goes through the red, suggests that I should be driving 60 instead of 70, forgive me for what right. So I really call on us to go back to what is the subject of this session and how the agenda is conceived, to talk about principles, and to leave political bickering and competition in who is more or less principled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12609	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers. It was not by chance that Saša took the foresters and the woods, they were both green, he could have taken something else, but the problem was when Mr. Živković, so here's Mr. Magazinović reminds us of some things and then they spoil the concept that seemed to be the only one ready, and it was counting on the category of short memory and then we'll start from today. However, unfortunately or fortunately, as you will, it is obviously impossible to start from today because yet many here memory serves some previous period and that we started from some irrelevant things around, I don't know which way you're talking about this formulation in the agenda, and my question is all the time – and if it wasn't for the first reading there, I'd ask what it would be, seventh, ninth. Which will be more than first. How can there be a third reading if, first of all, it always goes first, it can't be different. And if it says "emergency," then it says "emergency," then it's not the first. I guess that makes sense. I don't know what you mean by that. And on the other hand, he's talking about the budget date. I guess we've learned so much that the budget date doesn't have much to do with the budget period. And some have said that here, so it's known what period is being passed, whether it's being brought in November, whether it's being brought in December, at the end of the month, at the beginning and the rest, but it's an important period for which it's being brought. Many local communities will make their budgets by January, by February, by the next period, and during this period will likely be all in accordance with existing rules. But again, it looks like we don't have anything more important, so then we're dealing with these things and maybe it's better that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12611	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12612	Mr. Magazinović. So be assured that we understand the importance of bringing the budget and, of course, within the legal deadlines provided and we fully know and we are aware that the functioning of the institutions, all processes important for this country rely on the budget brought in on time and in this direction we will act, but don't expect us to nod just and say bravo that's great. This vision of these speeds and so on, so you've won elections, Mr Magazinović, among other things in the past four years, has not been able to open a session of your MPs who in all possible ways, of course as an opposition, have tried and succeeded, thus affecting the work in this Parliament and influence the public, of course through the media and so on. And so, those who drove at the speed of Šumaher didn't win the election, you got them. Now don't expect to be told not to drive slow and do what you do. And as for the stenogram, I have no doubt that you are very skilled at these stenograms and these studies, etc., burrum, we will read of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12613	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12614	Well, I'd like to say that I understand what Mr. Beriz Belkić said, I especially understand his sentence, which says that, that the opposition understands the need to bring Budžet. I really understand that, but I also know that what separates the opposition from the position, that no matter what he understands, the need for Budget to be brought, she never votes for Budget. And the story of this is just exhausting and taking strength for the agenda that remains before us. So it's amazing that this year, which should really be an example of all previous years, that the year in which we will finally have Budget and work on Budget, not on the basis of temporary funding, this year should be problematic from the aspect of the adoption of Budget, and... countless reasons that could justify that the years behind us, in which some of the players who appear today spoke quite differently and were crucial in defending that different. So dear colleagues and colleagues, please return to what is our task and we know that you will not accept any of the proposals and that you will not vote for any of the proposals you receive and that you will normally be against it, remain consistent but do not disturb us from finishing this job properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12615	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12616	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. 20 I don't know, I've been listening to some replica all along, and it seems to me that this parliamentary majority is replicating itself. What's the difference, here's the last two years and now this year in the budget process? The difference is, this year there is no SDA in the parliamentary majority. So here is the obvious fact that you're going to get the Budget and I had a good intention of supporting this Budget, but I don't get a chance to intervene, and I don't even want to ask the Budget Proposer, because there are a few vague things that we should clarify. First, what kind of epithet to give to this Budget? Is it social, stabilising, developmental? I really couldn't get out of a pile of paper like this, to see what kind of budget this is, especially if it gets into the essence. Well, on the revenue side, you'll see that, in fact, at the last session, we had to adopt amendments and supplement the Tax Act because there was no, I don't know, 10,632,000 marks to complete this budget. So here is the new parliamentary majority's decision to change, i.e. to increase special fees and fees, and the income has been increased since the issue of personal documents. What does that mean? Now the price of the ID card will be several times higher than before. Is that a contribution to coming back, is that a contribution to people's joy of signing up for a place of life, because they have to change their ID card. Then, other personal or personal documents, driver's license, traffic permit, licenses, etc., means the ratio of the income portion has changed. What's that supposed to mean? Is that missing funds in Budget, is that the SDA's fault? I don't really see the SDA guilty, I guess it should be someone else's fault. And don't blame us from the opposition, we really had the intention of supporting the budget that isn't, here's the way we wanted it, but obviously you won't let us even give it a chance, here we are from the opposition to support the budget for the benefit of all BiH citizens. Then what is unusual, which is that with 23,422,000 BiH is in debt with the IMF to complete the budget, or the income side, it writes. What's that supposed to mean? To lend credit to the BiH state. This is contrary to the principle that the Single Account funds the needs of the BiH state, and the rest goes to entities, i.e. cantons, municipalities, etc., according to the already established coefficient. Is that a violation of that principle? And so on. It is obvious that this budget, at least in part, is the result of a fiscal framework adopted last year and that the SDA has been expelled from this new parliamentary majority, and its place has been taken by the SBB. And that's a principle question, and it's obvious that because you're not allowing us to apply for amendments to fix this budget, you obviously can't expect the support of the SDA's Representatives Club to support this budget. If you look at the expenditure side, you'll see that there's absolutely no funds for capital projects at all. And here I listened to my fellow MPs kill themselves saying that huge funds were given to rent space for BiH institutions. Why isn't at least one building being built, this year or 2013? No item for such purposes is foreseen at all. Then, liquid grenades are lower by 20 million, which means some institutions will not be able to service the needs of the budget user. What brought particular attention to, at least to me, the reserved budget part increased by 5,487,000, so now it's 8,952,000, which is actually an increase of 248%. Who has this reserve? So, the chairman and two vice-presidents. How are these funds being spent? I have here an answer to the parliamentary question, which is, however, packaged at the request of Mr Špirić's Finance Minister, who says there is a Council of Ministers' decision to publish, or the amount of funds allocated to someone, is published in "The Served List of BiH". But apparently according to the instructions he issued, that some things are not being published, and it's obvious that from 3 million increases to 9 million is actually 21 someone's intention to tell us the story that there's a need to tighten the belt, to cut the wages to the administration, to the employees, and so on, it means to cut the wages to those who have the lowest income, and that someone who has the political power can be wasted by means and by public means, as he thinks they can and can. So this is a question that I should have asked this Budget's proposer, but obviously there's no one here who could adequately answer this question. And a key issue, means state bodies to implement BiH's strategic goal, which we say we all have full political consent, which is BiH's European path and NATO accession. It is obvious that the reduction of funds by the Ministry of Defence and the Directorate for European Integration is, in fact, a fundamental slowdown in the European path of BiH. So I've seen this commission reduces fuel and lubricating the Ministry of Defense. What's that supposed to mean? We've all criticised the Department of Defense -- they don't have fuel, they don't have oil when it's necessary to use a helicopter unit, and today, we need to cut them down even more means they can't breathe at all. I ask the question – is it the fundamental political desire of this parliamentary majority that BiH never actually participates in NATO? Go out in public and tell me if that's the case. Then state agencies and offices that are in charge of harmonising regulations with the EU, facilitating foreign trade and the like do not have a significant reduction in the budget at all. Why is that? So someone can be reduced, even to those porters, drivers, those people who have the lowest wages are being reduced, and we can't cut where there's an institution at the head of a certain institution, unfortunately there's an evil intention in all of this, looking at who's head of a certain institution, and that's how Budget was tailored regardless of the budget demands that the heads of these bodies made. This budget, as I said, is actually the result of a fiscal framework which, here is the Club of Representatives of the SDA could not support and do not stand behind it and therefore we are expelled from this parliamentary majority and for this reason we will not support this proposed Budget in the first reading today. If we get there, so if we finish this session early, so we have at least two hours at our disposal to make amendments, we'll make amendments, but if we can't get there physically, because it's our obligation to attend the House of Representatives' session, then we shouldn't expect to make amendments. Therefore, there will be no support from the SDA Representatives Club if there is a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12617	Thank you. As my colleague, Mr. Živković, has said, Budget is ahead of us for seven days. I think there's time and now, and before the debate is over, we're working on amendments if there are, so I don't think we should wait for the end of the debate. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12618	I had no intention of replicating at all, Mr. Chairman, maybe the Budget is in front of you for seven days, but it's not in front of us. We got the budget when we got it, we didn't have enough time to read it quality and let's analyze it and eventually put some repairs into it. So there's not enough time, and of course you're doing this gymnastics, you're always doing gymnastics, but don't go all the way to that extent to do, so to speak, legal violence against the Rules of Procedure. You are shortening these deadlines to the extent that it is physically impossible to submit amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12619	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12620	Here, I will begin my debate on the Budget with this very finding when the MPs received the draft budget. I must say that Budget, a fact addressed to the parliamentary procedure on November 29th, came to the clubs on December 04th, and if some MP was officially absent, he could see this Budget today. So, this morning, we had a Finance Commission, and believe me, we didn't get into the essence of the Budget, and we couldn't have all the items examined and analyzed so quickly. But what might have been missing is that the opening statement about this Budget is that someone from the Ministry of Finance, to confirm the thesis is today, as we are considering it at this rate, is it a condition for this tranche from the IMF, since we know that the IMF Executive Board is 19th, is that also a formal condition for the adoption of the State Budget to be, that means a prerequisite for obtaining funds from the IMF? It's very important because we know that the entities adopted the Budget. Also, there are no colleagues of Žiković here and there is no replica, I would not go back to what it was, as the parliamentary majority did, which were parliamentary majority, in what way the gymnastics rules were. We now have a new parliamentary majority who has said here that they will work on the European path, that their work will be for example and everything else and we expect that some of the negative practices do not lead us to further work. So, we expected to get this budget a little early, get a little more detailed and maybe put some amendments into it. What does it mean today we'll have another reading at 5:00? Does it mean that after this debate, if she ends up somewhere by 1:00 p.m. and when we vote in our first reading, there will be a break by 5:00, that we all MPs can look around, take some attitudes and write down amendments and then have a Finance Commission and then go back to the second reading? That's how I realized it. Otherwise, the other doesn't make sense because we're going to go with other points, and we're left with this document. And now a little something about Budget to say. It shows here that around 950 million were allocated to finance institutions and that they remained at 2012 level, means salaries, fees, costs and everything else. It also shows that there are some small savings and shifts to rent. But it also shows that around 25 million debts, credit debt, have been included in the revenue side. I don't know why, when we know how to get to the budget of the BiH institution. Also on page 145, each budget has an overview of the employees employed in the given year, as planned, on page 145, says a review of employees in BiH institutions as budget users was given in table 4 that is not available. I used to ask, I was interested in the number of employees per year, to see if it was the Council of Ministers planning to receive new people in BiH institutions, reduce or something. They may be going for a radical reduction, but let's see that 23 table. She's very important in bringing Budget. Also this information about the execution, they could at least have been, a colleague of Belkić is right, at least for 9 months present to us here that we have some orientation. For all these reasons, since my colleagues from the SDA have already mentioned it, no matter what we are, the opposition is our desire to bring the Budget in time, but really this is not possible to support in this way. And here we will try to reach some amendments during this short period, but I would like to make it clear to us here in front of the Ministry, so we can continue to conduct the debate, says whether the adoption of this Budget is a prerequisite for obtaining funds from the IMF? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12621	Thank you. Representatives of the Council of Ministers may contact at any time. And as for the new session, so we didn't say it would be at 5:00, but by 5:00 an amendment can be made, and the session will be when conditions are created, when any competent committee will consider these amendments if they are present. That's how we'll talk about it, you'll be notified in time. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12622	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Almost all of what I was going to say when it comes to my discussion of this agenda point, but let me say a few sentences anyway. I think that neither next year nor years after that anything will be as different as this last year, because when it comes to Budget it is all the result of the fiscal framework established as it was established. BiH institutions have 950 million and all BiH budgets have grown, so I think here first of all about entity budgets, the BiH institutions' budget, so the BiH state is shrinking. In 2010, or in 2011, when we discussed the 2010 Budget, we had a proposal from the Council of Ministers to 1,028.000,000 when it came to the BiH institutions and we ended up later, here we ended up with that temporary financing, and in the end, the Budget, as adopted, with 905 million, and here we have 950 million today. Since 2006, the budget institutions of BiH have been growing all the time. It has always contained a few dozen-million-dollar item related to the realization of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. 10 million one year just for Srebrenica. That's not what we're talking about this year. These are the budgets we could adopt all the time without any debate, so this should not be boasted about the adoption of this budget. This is the Budget that reflects a single policy that means stopping the development of state institutions and preferring entity institutions over state institutions. And this could have been so long ago, I mean, it's no problem, so that's it. And so it will be next year. I see some kind of announcement that something is going to increase to 30, 20 million next year, at least from the media I managed to see it, but this is, therefore, a reflection of a policy that was established. Politics is best seen and broken through money, through money, how power, what power has to do with the Budget. This was defined by two thousand, or last year when this fiscal framework was adopted. 24 So I think that my colleague Belkić is quite right when he said – this is the Budget that we receive practically. We don't have any possible mechanisms here for any interventions in view of the set framework. So this time you've left for the amendments, I think, too, which is why I said that, by kidding, of course, it's too much. And you yourself are aware that the changes in this budget compared to last year's budget is actually spilling from nothing to nothing, not to use any other expressions. Which is why, of course, we will not, from this strategic commitment, support this Budget, vote against this Budget. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12623	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I signed up for a replica not of any individual, specifically, but of a total presentation of the SDA Club. First of all, I want to say that you are aware that there is a congregation majority today who will vote this Budget and that it will pass. It's on one side. On the other hand, does something tell you this number of colleagues who left the O.R. just when you started your story on Budget? The third thing, I don't understand, and I can't understand why we're having so much trouble challenging Budget now that we're in a situation, so at the end of this calendar year, we're talking about Budget for next year. And it's a good and happy circumstance that after a long period of time, we get into a situation to talk about Budget in December. If that's a dispute for you and if that's so problematic then tell me what's the alternative to your side. I know the alternative is just what we had in 2011, it's temporary funding. Well, because of the lack of budget for 2011 We came into a situation where we went to temporary funding in 2012, but that was no longer possible for legal reasons because we don't have Budget for the previous year. So if that's an alternative to you, let's offer that alternative and let's get to the bottom of it, but there's no need to waste time because today we have very significant points on the agenda. And every single one is the most significant Budget that we are discussing today, but there are still more points in the agenda where you are going to be asking for the Budget to be bigger, why it is not bigger than 950 million, because the material from the next agenda points shows that the Budget for last year, not that it should have been restrictive and life-saving, but was even wasted in certain segments when looking at the internal structure of the Budget. And yesterday, of course, we had a chance to hear that the president of the SDA in the media says why he won't, why the SDA won't support the budget, he says – well, you know, there's no money for the agencies, for the directorships, people need cars to buy new cars, they need to rebuild the rolling stock and that. So is that why it increases the items in the situation where we have entity budgets that are convulsing in problems and that survive due to credits? You think people need to raise their wages now, buy new cars, yes, as wasteful as it is right now. And someone mentioned capital investments today, and we'll see that according to the audit report on the multi-annual capital 25 investments, capital investments that have been so far have been very difficult. So you're obviously only interested in this waste and having the money to share what you think and what you think. And what entity budgets are, which give and have a social and development component, in deep problems, this one that is consumer should be bigger, should grow and everything that has money in this country should be collected first on the Budget of BiH and other budgets and people by entities and in the bh society, anything that does not. Get the agencies to buy new cars, and when new management comes, change the fleet, that's obviously the most important thing for you. Come on, don't distract us with that story and let us do this job today. We understand that you are the opposition and that no one argues with you to vote, but don't talk any nonsense here when we all know what your reasons are for being in a position and that you can't, of course, support the Budget today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12625	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12626	Well, I have to rephrase to my colleague for a part of her exposure, although she's brought so much discussion here that we should all just replicate now. But just for the very reason that today's important document we're not going to enter the sphere of large replicas. Very few of us from the opposition, from the U.S.A., were discussing today. In this opening part, several colleagues from the position discussed the process of the need for the speed of adoption of this Budget. As far as I know, the two of us, the three MPs we discussed here, and that's our democratic right. We know that you have a congregation majority and I don't see the nervousness to discuss it for an hour and that you vote it, you have, you vote it, it's your democratic right, and nobody slows it down for you. But you can't even challenge us to point out some of the Budget stuff, point out budget procedure, speed of adoption, delivery here and everything. This is where we should stop with this practice and not always mention what it was like when someone was in a position or opposition. It's not true that we are for the waste of the budget of state institutions. We are in favour of strengthening state institutions, we are in favour of strengthening state institutions and preparing and making Europe a better way. If we went into analysis now, we could replicate a lot here, but that... and everything else that's the least reason SDA's asking for more funds to be allocated to Budget. We can go back to 2012 when we had those amendments, it was about 50 million, and the same amendments we can because it's the same budget, the same costs, the same everything, the same expenditures, the same expenditures, everything. So don't argue with us to act like an opposition and point to things. This country needs opposition, it used to be SDP, so it won the election. And let us democratically discuss this document because it is our democratic right.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12627	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12628	I was applying for a replica, Mr. Chairman, so I gave up, so here I am again just going to say two sentences. So, I gave up because the previous discussion of my colleague is, in fact, intonation, argument, relationship, doesn't really deserve my replica. But for the sake of the public, I'm just going to say that I wasn't even talking about what the distinguished colleague was talking about, but I was talking about that there's no means to return and there's no means to develop state institutions, nothing more. Of course, I can talk about it for a long and long time. It was in my discussion, it wasn't necessary, but here, I won't go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12629	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we have today, meaning on our parliamentary benches the most important document for this House for 2013, that means the Law on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH, because if this Law is not adopted, then these institutions will certainly not work and will not be able to carry out their work in the manner that this should be done in accordance with various laws, regulations and rules. Here, we have representatives here today at this session, so it is proposed that this Law, i.e. the Proposal of 2013 we also consider in the first and second readings, whether, through certain breaks. Of course, there has been a call and talk about various gymnastics in the past. We would probably have gymnastics this year, but it would be correct to point out here that there are conditions for international organisations, above all the IMF, that this document should be adopted by certain deadlines if we could, meaning to consume what the Ministers of the Council of Ministers and entity ministers agreed on, of course, the Prime Ministers. So I'm saying there's a possibility of two readings, but our Rules of Procedure, which we're talking about, article 160 is speaking of the law, so if we estimate the House that it's a law of minor complexity. I'm not sure that the draft budget law is that it's a small degree of complexity law, I think it's one of the most complex laws to be passed. I believe that there are no legislators here, i.e. it is a little unclear for me in all of this, perhaps you chairor or someone from the Council of Ministers can answer me – if we adopt the Commission's opinion on finance and budget to cut these costs to the Directorate for Irregular Taxation, the Presidency of BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly, the General Secretariat, the Ministry of Defence and so on, foreign affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights, if this is adopted, then it is not clear to me what amount of the budget we will adopt. As far as I know, as I understand it, means the Proposer of the Budget, the Parliamentary Assembly, means the adoption of the Budget, is the proposer of the BiH Presidency, will surely be in the amendment's break. What I know about procedures, amendments -- I don't know who's going to consider them, whether it's the Presidency. If the Proposer seems to me that they should also consider amendments, adopt one part of the amendment or reject them and re-read them in that second reading, in that second round of the Parliamentary Assembly, propose or amend the budget. Because I'm saying here this committee with five votes for and two abstentions adopted this, and if we take it off, I couldn't calculate, 27 had time, so I say there's objective colleagues talking here about the time stamp, I don't know how much the spending side will be reduced by. Those who do a little financial work know that both income and expenditure must be balanced. I wish the Commission would have proposed here, if adopted, this House and the House of Peoples, of course... The Parliamentary Assembly, if it adopts these conclusions that we know or the expenditure side will be reduced for this amount, I say I don't know how much, it would take me some time to calculate, or to increase certain positions within or within these budget users, or possibly some others. It's clear here, no one should be upset or nervous about what's going on here, these are parliamentary benches, this is, so this is where the debate is going to be held. I've listened to different debates on various non-essential issues, which we would say in our people – beating up empty straw, but I don't think the budget is a beating of empty straw, that if we listen to what we've been saying and if some of our colleagues here think that capital investments are in this budget, which I don't really see and need them, then that's a small mistake. No investment, no employment, no development. But what some colleagues should tell us – this is exactly the Development Budget, this is the Stabilisation Budget, this is the Social Budget, and obviously we need time to learn something from it ourselves. Here, I have asked a concrete question about who will answer us, in the end, if we adopt these conclusions, what will be the final budget. If there is an amendment, there are colleagues from the Council of Ministers who adopt these amendments and re-proposes them to us in the second round that we adopt them. And finally how much budget we're going to adopt. It is clear to me that there is a certain parliamentary majority, it is quite all right, which this budget will adopt today, but we cannot adopt it in a way that we will come out of here as national or state heroes, as we have adopted for the first time since this Parliament exists..., for the following year the budget, neither do I, 06.12., or a month before its application. We can't deal with that, because otherwise if there wasn't pressure from the IMF, if there wasn't no need for these borrowings that we could get, which were mentioned here by colleagues on the income side, also entities, we'd probably have a budget like this in 2012. Or even the worse version in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12631	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12632	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives and guests. First, let me refer to the procedural part with a few words because a few discussions have touched this issue. If we thought this was a law of small complexity and that it was possible for business we would probably suggest that we consider it as an emergency procedure. So we truly believe that this is an extremely important law. On the other hand, we have neither attached ourselves to Rule 106 nor 127, but to Article 128, which gives the College the opportunity to cut deadlines. As regards the new session for Article 62(3), 28 As for the question of what kind of budget this is, is it developmental, is it stabilising, etc., etc. Well, it is clear what the powers of the state are in the constitutional system of BiH and that they are the main developmental, so to speak, mechanisms and instruments at entity and county levels, but the state can certainly play that development role. But less through the budget but more through its other mechanisms, and one of them is the adoption of the budget in time to get a credible treatment from international financial institutions, multilateral associations in which BiH is seeking. In the first row, the EU. Here, for example. Today we have a debate on amendments to the Constitution, and I will talk about it later, so the essence of that question. But let us implement the Roadmap, and within the Roadmap and Reform, that is, the change of the Constitution, based on the Court's decision in Strasbourg, so let's come from this phase of membership, that is, the EU's path towards a higher degree of candidate status, and then we will be able to use not only funds to support institutions but also structural funds, where, therefore, many budgetary, so to say, we will be able to realise the requirements by the basis of EU structural funds. I haven't really had the need to answer any of the questions that have been asked so far, but this is when I feel the need to say what I know, as chairman of the House of Representatives, about the urgency of this Budget. In fact, we are informed that BiH's stand-by arrangement with the IMF is not going to fail unless we adopt the budget today, but if we do not adopt it in the course of the day or no later tomorrow until a certain time, the first tranche has been compromised and the financing of entity institutions for which we are very much responsible as representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is threatened, at the very least, to do everything to facilitate the financing of these institutions. After all, we are going to adopt this budget today. My colleague Jurišić's answer. So his dilemmas are quite in place when he spoke about what happens to the Budget if we adopt the conclusions of our Committee on Budgets and Finance. Of course that would significantly change the structure and amount of this budget, and therefore my appeal will be to those MPs who will, of course, respect that appeal, that unless they have serious reasons to turn their conclusions into amendments to give up on them. Because in that case, we would truly be in a position to drastically change that budget. Of course, we would all change it in certain items, from its total amount to the distribution by item, and we realize that today we do not have much room for such interventions. But I also want to say here what I said at the Expansive College, at the Tight College, I also express one dissatisfaction with the way in which the authorising officer of the Budget The Bureau referred to the deadlines in the Budget, including this Parliament. In the end, we once again came into a situation where, to put it that way, we were saving the state and we weren't at least responsible for it. And to me as the chairman of this House, and to the College, and to all of us, it would have been much preferable if we had, if we had received the Budget, the Budget on time, and we could have, in one way, said, a normal, relaxed procedure creatively participated in its overall design or distribution by item. Unfortunately, the situation is such, we should be aware that breaking these deadlines will cause serious damage and problems for many users of the Budget, primarily at this point in the short term that depends on entity budgets, and long-term color and those of the users who depend on the BiH Budget. That's why I'm appealing, here's why we need to put ourselves on the table as rationally as possible and move towards the realization of this agenda. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, a replica to colleagues who have told so far about the Budget, its structure, how we bring it today, how we used to do, what it was. I ask a key question that has not been heard today, which I have asked every year, and I have asked for answers through parliamentary issues, initiatives – whether any of us are considering whether we will be able to raise as many funds as planned. What if we don't collect? Because of market disturbances, because of the economic crisis, because of this and the recession, because of the environment, because of Croatia, which is already in the EU, because of this, are we going to collect what is planned? ...planning two billion, but if we're going to make 500 million, then grab everyone's head, and we don't know what we're going to do, what's going to happen to them. It's a key issue that can't plan a single budget. What will happen, will the Ministry of Finance be responsible? He won't. Is there going to be an indirect tax administration? No, he won't be able to steal there and tell someone he's importing and pay taxes if he's importing and he doesn't have the money to pay the workers. What's gonna happen to the companies? What's going to happen to fired workers? Dear colleague Marković said well. We generally do not weaken the state with this budget, but the horror of life takes place in entities – both social categories and others. We'll leave them if we don't adopt the Budget today. What is very good is what everyone in the opposition said and it is clear – you from the position today will adopt this. So when it's like that, let's not waste any time adopting it, no matter how many objections we have. You can invest 100 amendments today, and I've invested them in various laws and where it should have been and where it wasn't, knowing it wasn't going to pass, but I've invested them and I've been a position, I've been aware of. But I wasn't interrupting Parliament's work. I was trying to do something. When I saw that something was possible, I insisted on it. When something is seen where this is going, and it leads to today's adoption of the budget, then we're wasting our time. And I repeat, I have always said that, and today I will just say two sentences – I am proud of the work of this Parliament when these days I have watched myself in the environment as other parliaments work. Well, this is an extraordinary Parliament, we all understand each other, of course we don't agree on many things. But I'm going to ask you all the time, they're going to get this into the stenogram, at the next sessions, for months as far as the inflow in Budget hasn't been achieved, and we planned. So I've asked a number of MPs questions and I'm looking for a response from the Ministry of Rationalization and this Budget, the abolition of various unnecessary agencies that no one could count and not what they were doing. So there'll be those questions. And come on comrades, colleagues, friends, whatever you want to call it, let's get this over with. And I'm saying, I'm finishing up, I'm gonna ask you all the time if we've accomplished what we planned.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12634	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvornko Jurišić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12635	Thank you, Chairman. I'll do one replica for you. I am pleased, after these discussions, that the parliamentary majority, i.e. the six, acts synchronisedly, means in these parliamentary benches, to talk positively about this upcoming Budget or the 2013 Budget, so I would ask you when you are so 30 unique to show this unity and to continue this session, especially at the next item of the agenda when it comes to the draft amendment to the BiH Constitution by the signed representatives below. There you will have support and a great deal of opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12636	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't seem to have the need too much because my colleagues from the club are part of things or the essence said, but here, just to say or explain a few more things, or maybe to make room for Slavko to replicate again and warn us, is there, that there is a parliamentary majority? Well, we know that there is, it is not disputed, otherwise the government would not function if there were no parliamentary majority, but it is disputed that no longer December 31st is the legal deadline for the adoption of the Budget, that this has been moved to some December 20th and that we can talk about it, that today is December 6th and that it is about 13.14 days until that deadline. And if we had at least got two, three days for the amendment phase, I don't think anything would have been too bad, even if Parliament had held up on Saturday, and on Sunday, and on Monday, but simply that we as MPs had received a little more quality space, since we had a late budget, to see in what way we would have created it, and not how those to whom it was honored, obviously not for us MPs, so maybe this is what we're talking about about about the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget compared to the audit reports, so that some of those items are installed to those institutions that don't do well, that at least one part of our own obligations that we've made to ourselves, and we always point out as important, we're doing here through this budget. But what was symptomatic of me and what I took seriously, and of Mr. Živković when he said at one of the previous session after the pay phone that we, quote Srbin in RS, were wise(?) So now we choose those who want to protect national and economic interest, not the states of BiH, Republika Srpska. That's what's said. So that I and this Budget were created this way, I consider national and economic protection of the RS and I am surprised only by the Federation MPs, notably SDP and SBB MPs, who agreed to one such blackmail. Why didn't they put things in a slightly different way to keep that interest mutual, both in the Federation and in the RS? To talk about the need for state-funded entities to talk about the irresponsibility of executive and legislative authorities in entities to disregard the commitments given to them by the IMF to make public spending, which they have enormously increased, smaller and that we do not have the need to strike from the BiH state funds so that they can finance some entity obligations. For these reasons, I repeat again, meaning what is a fundamental problem and what is part of the principle of this Budget is this Global Fisclave Framework that we talked about, when we adopted the Budget for 2012, enough. But once again, I point out that this Global fiscal framework has the sole goal of degradeing state institutions, paralysing their work, and at the same time, I say, entity budgets are growing. Violent, detention means the level of funding of the BiH state at the level of 2008 through this Global Fiscal Framework in 2012-2015, so here is the Fiscal Council Act, which says, in Article 11, that the framework is defined but also the obligation to revise each year. If I had seen here that the Fiscal Council sat down, analyzed the incomes, what Slavko was just talking about before, whether we were going to have 31 pairs, and saw that the inflow of funds was bigger, smaller, and said, "Here we have revised it, or here are the MPs that you know that as a principle we tried to adopt, I might have talked in a different way." But obviously it wasn't done. And what Mrs. Marković was just talking about. We're not for temporary funding, although it would be funny if it wasn't sad, here's if we said we were in a sense, but because of our discussions we talked about earlier, I don't think that's good and we're not for temporary funding. But here, and through the temporary financing of a certain state institution would retain one more quality funding level than it is now. But that's why we're trying to get one part of the assets from income, indirect revenues. We will suggest it, through the amendment phase, we will surely react regardless of the short time. Because what's essential here when we analyze Budget and what Mrs. Marković said next - we haven't spent the funds. Well, we haven't spent our resources, but here's the border police in the state we're in, we don't have any fuel for helicopters when the lives of citizens are at stake, we don't have any resources, we don't have any fixed remonts, so we have a loss of one helicopter. So here in this year, the Ministry of Defense enters from that aspect in an even more unfavourable position, and we don't know, as Slavko said just now, how much money we're going to have, but we don't even know what kind of weather accidents are expecting us in this period. So these funds existed, they didn't spend, they didn't redistribute, and we could at least this detail, when it comes to the Ministry of Defense, to a better work. What is the essence and problem of this budget, and which is why, among other things, the U.S.A. cannot accept it in this form and where we are going to invest the amendments is the reduction of funds, I will especially potential it, when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, for 15 million. But I'm just asking here fellow Federation colleagues, primarily SDP and SBB -- if they're buying a story from the RS that BiH Armed Forces should be abolished. So now in one budgeting process this, last year's reduction, this year's decrease, the decline in the coming years, at one point we're going to run out of Armed Forces. The Party of Democratic Action in no way accepts any such thinking and we, regardless of whether there is a parliamentary majority that will adopt it, must say for our own sake and for the public who listens to us that we are interested in the Ministry of Defence staying, that the Armed Forces are at full capacity and that this Budget also provides for certain funds to implement BiH's obligations towards the MAP, or NATO Alliance and BiH's accession to the global organisation. Furthermore, for this Budget in the end, we can say that it is a budget that will be able to pay the salaries to the budget users, for the citizens, and here were the stories and I will not detail it, nothing is foreseen. And what is most painful and what can ultimately solve these problems in entities is that... it envisions nothing quality that BiH could withdraw in the process of realising certain obligations when it comes to the European path. I think that in such a way, helping this country, helping entities when BiH moves faster forward, providing all the preconditions needed to be the country that will join the EU after Croatia. However, we are going some other way, we are going along a line of decommissioning of the BiH state, strengthening entities, and that is what is the fundamental problem of both this Budget and certain legal projects that are likely to be found here in parliament in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12638	Thank you. 32 Allow me to replicate, for there is no one to announce me. A sequence from the presentation of the esteemed representative Sokolović set my ears on fire. I will try to paraphrasise, he said about this – I am surprised at the behaviour of the Federation's representatives who are being placed in the protection of the economic and national interests of the RS, especially SDP and SBB representatives. That implies, therefore, that you are not surprised, so to speak, the behavior of the other representatives of the Federation. Well, here I come also from the Federation and in any case it is, I'm putting myself in the protection of the economic interests of both entities because these are the economic interests of BiH, but I don't even accept even rhetorically speaking about the national interests of entities, because both entities, as we know, are entities of all three constituent nations, or at least they should be. So here's my replica of this exhibit. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12639	I won't be long. I respect your discussion, however, but I have conveyed the words of the chairman, the second chairman of Mr. Živković for this speaker here – yes, we have come to our senses in the Republic,... now paraphrasing, Serbia and looking for partners that are for protection and national, highlighted, and the economic interests of Republika Srpska. I didn't make that up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12640	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12641	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I answered for the discussion a long time ago, and here's the thing that's been said in the meantime, I'm not going to repeat myself, but there are a few things I might want to suggest. First of all, I think it was useful that we were at the beginning of today's agenda, this point, that we had an opening presentation of one of the promoters. We also have Mr Bevanda, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers. So it was useful in this sense to hear basic introductory exposure. But here, since we haven't had it, I think we've been wasting our time on some questions that we're going to insist on getting answers again. There are a few things I'd just like to comment on, I didn't want to answer for the replicas, but I think if a guy's comments don't say anything that you can interpret, there's a comment from a colleague named Kalabić, unfortunately there's no one here. So don't blame us from the U.S.A. if we notice something's actually missing in the document, something's wrong. So, keeping in mind it's possible that where there's nothing you put add anything. Consider it an extremely proper, honest, well-intentioned relationship. And I think this is where we should discuss it like that. And this is actually the best way to make things right. The other thing, here's a little bit, I didn't want a colleague Marković either, but I don't think there's really any reason for any kind of nervousness or rush, or, this is too serious a thing to actually try, I don't know, banalizing or trying to put each other in some subjugation position on these issues. So, if we notice that 34 of the 74 institutions, 33 34 have reduced the budget or if we notice that the state of BiH is for the first time from Dejton to today, that the state is in debt, that the state is in debt, so we introduce a whole new practice, then you understand that these are the questions that we want to hear the answer to. I will end with this, I would ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as the most responsible man, here is the executive authority, to answer us in this sense, why do we have the credit responsibility of the BiH state this time? So, as I said earlier, this is the first time the state in this regard is in debt. We know how the institutions of the BiH state are financed, and I'm interested in what's the intensity? So it's not about millions, 20 million, 120, 250 or billion, it's about politics, it's about intensity, so it's about what should actually come... Where's the foothold for a relationship like this? And so that will be one of the key reasons why we will continue to commit ourselves. My colleagues said we wouldn't support it, so this is the Budget. There are several reasons why this is so, but this is a principle question that we expect a direct and public answer here at this session of Parliament. So one of these approaches introduces a whole new practice. So it is known that the BiH state and the BiH state institutions are funding and what some gymnastics is, since we talked about gymnastics here today, we know that in the past, there have been similar ways that we have come up with important documents. What is the difference between what the SDA was doing, and here I fully support my colleagues from the Party for BiH, we were together in that sense, so what that two did was the result of all that we had a larger budget every year for the BiH state institution and we had a stronger state of BiH. So let gymnastics be used in such a way to get something that's better for the country and actually get something that is, at least behind which we all declare that we're sitting here. So that's some difference if you're making gymnastics whether you're going to make it in a way that it's actually in the interest of the policy that you represent, and in terms of the interest of the state of BiH, we're the state parliament, or the result of that is going to be something else. So, I'd like to ask the chairman's reply to credit and credit obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12642	Thank you. The president can always get back to you. And she answered the line, the distinguished representative of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12643	Thank you. I'd say sooner, Your Honor, that this is Mr. Šepić's misquote. In fact, Mr. Šepić put the height of Budžeta in line with BiH's strength here. Mr. Šepić, BiH is as strong as its real sector is strong, as happy as its citizens are. BiH is as strong as people can buy for their salary, as high as pensions, as regular as they can live off these pensions, it's as strong as we invest in our economy. And we invest in our economy from our entity budgets. And you know how much, at least when it comes to RS, we don't invest anything. Only 2 million were planned to work in the RS Budget for next year. Now, Mr. Šepić, the BiH force is therefore measured by the satisfaction of the lives and standards of its citizens and not by how much money we will invest in public spending here, in one inefficient 34 administration. The 22,000 are employees of BiH institutions. And that kind of administration had that former SFRY, and that administration, Mr. Šepić, and the economic situation, at least in one of the entities where you're still in power, is the consequence of your policy. It's not SDS policy. Unfortunately, we are faced today, and neither are we satisfied with this Budget, we believe that it should have been even smaller. Not to weaken BiH, but because people in entities, social giving cannot be reconciled anymore from entity budgets. Because the entity budgets have been burdened, the RS is paying off its 464 million debt this year. In the last four years, she doubled her debt to buy social peace. So you want to spend one megalomaniac, to waste here, to throw money away, and on the other hand who we're damaging? We damage healthcare workers, damage police officers, education, pensioners, our hospitals are the worst in the region. Mr. Šepić, you need to understand that real life is in entity budgets, and that this budget should actually be a service, just a service of BiH to the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12644	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12645	Well, here's a quick answer to this one, what's it called. I agree that all this is BiH, of course. You know where life is going. There's no telling where he's funding from, and so on. I am sure BiH is as strong as the country's strong institutions will make it so. We have a European path, we have a NATO path. The country's institutions are leading the story when it comes to Europe and when it comes to NATO. So we can totally disagree here. So, it's yours, it's yours that we need to actually repay from these funds the debt of this wastefulness that you have in the RS. Let me be someone who's actually willing to talk about how we sanction every wasteful thing, but don't exactly complain that we need to pay for it now, and these costs and some of them there, some of your administration in the RS that we should pay it from here. So you simply realize that our policy in this sense is to provide strong institutions that will lead us through European and Euro-Atlantic channels and that we actually see the chance of both this waste and a bunch of these problems, which you mention, that in this way we sanction and bring into... That's the only thing that makes us different.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12646	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12647	I thank the chairman. I wasn't counting on reporting for the replica, but when I heard my dear colleague Milica, and especially now Aleksandar, I'm not going to, because of this, I'm going to focus all my replicas on Mr. Slavko Jovičić. 35 A fellow Slavko said, justifiably, whether we will be able to make this Budget, what is it, to make it happen. I agree. But all the time following all the colleagues and colleagues in this Parliament, in the past, not to say, for a year, I have heard very little initiative – let's support the economy, support the economy, which is exactly what we're talking about right now. You didn't say that much. Even fellow Slavko, when it comes to seasonal fruit, you specifically said you weren't into seasons. My colleague Milica said it's for May and not February, and I said about December I'm for banning and protecting domestic production. And that's why I think you're wrong, colleague. I agree with my colleagues, I think you'll understand which direction I want to say. But what I see, all three of you are not from the economy. Yes, but you're not in the economy, as far as I'm concerned, you haven't spent most of your work. I'd just like to point out something about this together. I have noted, from 74 BiH institutions to 34, the budget has been reduced. Does this not suggest that indeed 50%, more or less, of all institutions is damaged? What concerns me especially, some institutions, and now I'm going to list them, the Veterinary Office -- we want the meat industry and some more to protect, but there's a 44% reduction in Budgets. When it comes to the Department of Criminal Sanitation, we know what the problem is. People can't go because of crimes committed, prisons can't accept them. We end up, and that's where we cut 70 percent of the budget. We want the economy fixed, the finance ministry is down 21% of the budget. The Ministry of Civil Affairs, which... of the resources, is what everyone's pushing for, and we've cut them by 30%. Public Administration Coordination and Reform Office – 74% of them reduce the budget and we want to facilitate the lives and work of our citizens, to have everything in one place as soon as possible. However, is the desire of these very majority to go in that direction? I don't think so. You agree with that, we in the U.S.A. are certainly unique that this budget is not acceptable to us because of the people, not because of us. And that's why I think it's justified that we act this way. However,...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12648	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12649	I'm sorry, I'm gonna say one more minute and I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12650	Replica, it's a replica, you have the right to debate. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12651	Well, I have to tell you, Mr. Jagodić, here's what you mentioned about the Veterinary Office, and I was amazed this morning, and I thought it was a reduction, so I contacted the management of that office and they told me, on the contrary, their budget will be increased by 2.5 million in taxes, and this reduction by 1.6 million in donations they had last year. So their budget will be bigger. What we are dissatisfied with is that there should have been a reduction in the budget of many other agencies for a simple reason, I will tell you that we insisted on the Council of Ministers to cut down, that all agencies negotiate with their own, where the tenants from whom they rent space, negotiate to cut down to 36 rents. And many, which is commendable and there is a reduction, and savings have done so. A dozen agencies didn't do it. And I think you should have made them, too. And as for your remarks, Mr. Jagodić, or actually Mr. Šepić, who said that we wanted to give something from here to someone in the RS and patch down the negatives, no, we're in the RS, and now it seems to me, and SNSD was making these megalomanic agencies, agencies, agencies, so here are the six agencies that went out in Budget for next year. And that's where we think the administration needs to be reduced. We need administration, it's not the number of administrations, it doesn't mean the quality, Mr. Šepić. Unfortunately, all of us, let's talk about that, too, that here in these institutions weren't getting the best, those who were really first in the competitions, but someone who might be realistically down in some 30th place, we all know how, through the commission, pushed at first, so that's where those who had this or that party book came to us. Now, when we get the best in these institutions, we're going to need much less employees, but we're going to have much more efficiency in institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12652	Thank you. Dear representative, Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12653	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Jagodiću, I thank you. And you in the introduction said and mentioned my two colleagues and I take responsibility for myself, although you had no reason to replicate me at all, but here. Have you excused two of my colleagues and have you replicated to me, I couldn't make time, I'm keeping an eye on you, but here's what I'm going to say. I'm not threatening anyone, who I am to threaten, but don't let anyone's mind-blowing the VAT when we don't want this, this planned budget can come true. Remember what I told you today, December 6th. If we do this, we'll be great, no matter what they're all unhappy about. But I'm saying, don't plan an increase in VAT or any other burden on this poor people and the poor. Dear colleague Jagodiću, you have shown two things. That we're great friends, and I'm friends with everyone, while you're replicating me. I thank you and freed two of my colleagues you mentioned in the introduction. And you probably meant to give them a line, but here you are to me. But I'm telling you now, and I'm going to say it again, are we going to make this budget happen? Are we going to take from someone half the next year and give to the one who's got nothing? So be he wastefully, be he like this, be he like this, he'll be the key in one dot. No money, where's the money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12654	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12655	Thank you. 37 I hope I don’t break this second deadline. I just want to point out once again to my colleague Slavko. I understand everything. That's the way to go. But I haven't heard from any of them why, here's a look for associations and foundations 15 days ago, two sessions, we had a discussion about associations and foundations, but we're just talking and even in the proposal says that law doesn't require any funding. Why? So he's asking for people's compensation. The more associations, the more taxis. And in that part I see that practically this House was supposed to predict exactly the funds of this budget and those associations and foundations. Not all associations, not to say, are criminal. There are associations that do extremely human things, good things, cultural things, of interest to all the peoples of BiH. Unfortunately, there's nothing there. Another thing, as far as economic incentives are concerned, there's nothing there. But what is crucial in my opinion, 21 million marks are projected just from the issue of new ID cards that go to the burden of our citizens, all together in BiH. I think we need to talk about it, and that's what we need to tell the people. If that's the goal of increasing by 204% in this respect of income, I think it's sad. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12656	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests if you have not escaped from all these debates, gentlemen who forgive us in our work, especially representatives of our media who love such congregations very much. After all this, the man is speechless. But there's one constant that hurts me, one fact that I'm going to tell you at the beginning. I am so sad that my country, my state of BiH, a beautiful and too rich country has such a small and poor state budget. And that's one of the biggest tragedies we have to discuss here today, if you have an objection to him, you know. I'd be awfully proud if we were to discuss whether to adopt a 2 billion or 3 budget next year. It's the only dream in this country. If you asked an old man in Bosnia why...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12658	Excuse me, I'd like to ask the representatives and guests to refrain from talking while the debate is under way.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12659	The power of concentration is lost in nervous people. I'm still not, thank Bog so nervous, and you're younger, good for you when you are. If an older man in any part of BiH were asked – and why so little money, so little money, he would look at you with those old ageing eyes and say, "son, empty doesn't shoot." The problem is, I'm asking the question who emptied it? Well, gentlemen, that you've been sitting here for a long time, I've been a lot less than two years here. Don't forget, remember very well how long it took me to schedule an extension of the constitutional session, so that you can only agree to the College, and get started. So less than two years we've been working. I've never been in law enforcement or law enforcement in my life. And now one of you would like, all of you, all of you, all of you, all of you, all of you, all of you, all of you, all of you, all of this misery, all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sorrows, in part, and on my poor old age's shoulders to load for all of this. Oh, God, you won't. No, you don't. Well, who took part in the 38 raids during the war, who started the dirty, even during the war, privatization and led it to the day today, so who fills the employment bureaus with over 500,000 people, and we're approaching 600,000 already? Is it part of filling the budget? Is that the recipe you won't talk about? Where are all those huge factories that filled our budgets? Where are our nuts and lightbulbs? Where are our successful businessmen? Where are these people who have been filling our budgets, municipal, cantonal, entity, federal, state, where are they? He's right, Mr. Jovičić, he's right, my dear gentlemen, whether we will fill these humble, poor for one state of 950 million state budget. Do you, of what? From a new charge to a villa. Woe to him who builds his own happiness on a people's misfortune. We're not gonna fill it out. And I didn't hear that anyone here smart suggested how to start working. What are we gonna do next year to fix that? To hire 100,000 people, 50 grand, 20 grand. Do you have such a program for filling the budget? I didn't hear anyone talk about it. Here's just, it's easy to be an opposition, I was in opposition, and I don't even know how I changed into a position, I'm staying the same, you know, pink and pink. I'm an old man, you're younger, and I can make you look ugly sometimes. I'd say our Bosnian, you're kidding me. But if this rosemeat isn't a painful truth, then I apologize. And one more thing, I repeat again, don't you gentlemen, and you've hooked me up and I feel called, when you mentioned SDP and SBB that we're not patriots, you as if you are. Don't ever do that again. At least get me out of it. And while I live this little life, you sir who said it, in my heart and in my soul, is always a unique and complete country and state of BiH. You understand, no one can get her out of there. Don't push her out, please, for me. Excuse me, again the message in the end, at the beginning, why do you think such a rich, beautiful, beautiful, full of wonderful working people, the country of BiH has such a small and modest budget as the state. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12660	Thank you. Next speaker, distinguished counterpart Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One small replica, Mr. Božo Ljubić, went to his when he said that, who is to blame for us being brought into this situation, that it was the Presidency. True, the presidency today is not as a proposing and this is a little bit the same, but as we also know, the Law on the financing of BiH institutions says the Council of Ministers should be handed over to the BiH presidency by 15 October. And as far as I know, November 20th, it's done. So it's been late for over a month, 35 days. And the Bureau got, it was supposed to get the 01st cold, it got, so 20th and 29th of the year ended. At this point, the presidency has done its job very correctly. So the problem was late for the Council of Ministers. 39 And as for the budget, so today we and the Committee had a budget and we made two conclusions... here either. As far as the budget is concerned, one conclusion is the framework of the budget, where I have been restrained, and another is the conclusion regarding the rationalisation of certain representation costs, which certain institutions have done, and I think it is okay and that we as the Committee should be supported by Parliament to finish it. And when it comes to the budget, unfortunately neither does adoption of the budget at entity level tell us clearly that the words of growth, development, progress, or security and well-being of citizens are not in sight. Now that's why I've been abstentioned to this budget. The truth is that, and here many have said, the BiH state should be serving practically two entities, if I can say so, at lower levels. However, to be a service if something is completely wrong. It's very hard to be a service to it. And that is also bad because we, both in the country and here in Parliament, are running three key policies concerning the economy, the economy and the repair of the situation when it comes to security and prosperity, growth, development and progress. So, fiscal policy is being led here, or VAT policy in this House is being passed, and we know that 64% of it seems to me to be the Public Revenue Tax Administration, 64%. Foreign trade policy, the conclusion that the People's Party worked towards a improvement four years ago here in Parliament, was renewed the other day to remind the Council of Ministers what should be done, so we are participants of this poor situation in the economy. Because if we don't have separations, and we see now that we don't have entities, or at the level of the state, for places where new values are created, they're according to the standard of classification of activity, industry and agriculture, then we have nothing to teach people. Why would education us if we didn't have industry and agriculture, for what? What's that for? We don't have to do that at all. If we don't have strategic definitions, what about our industry, what about our agriculture? So we don't need school or education at all. And that's the foundation where we need to get serious and where we need to bring strategic directions, both from the state level and from lower levels. So, since the budget is the way it is, we have the right to change. I'll probably, and I will, so today I'm going to make one amendment, where I'm going to cut all these items by 5%, and somewhere around 47,500,000 to single out for agriculture. It's going to be my chance in that direction of the amendment, to fix at least a little bit of that part that the entities missed, because we're all one whole together and we need to be one whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12662	Thank you. Next up for discussion, dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12663	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I welcome you all together. The issue of adopting the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2013, we must be realistic, is not much different from the practice that has been on the stage so far when it comes to budgets, not only at the state level, but also at the entity level and at the canton level in the Federation 40 BiH. It's always at the last minute, it's always business-questioning, wrapped in veils of secrets, stuck and so on. This Budget, too, is no exception for the state level. It is true that what we are doing today is a vision of respect for the procedure and the perception of Parliament's respect for this budget story for 2013. However, it is clear that we have a specific problem ahead of us. So, the deadlines for the adoption of the Budget by regular procedure have been broken, and we have to deal with it today. I believe that despite the increasing damage, it will result in a possible failure to adopt the budget, rather than a damage from the re-hitting of the BiH Parliament. It's not the first time we've had a last-minute run of things, that we're being pressured by our commitments to the IMF, our obligations to this or that. And we've accepted that so far, so I think it's going to be a little bit of a shame if we accept this Budget story as well. Obviously, there is a parliamentary majority that will adopt this budget. As for me personally, so I will not support it in this first reading, nor in the second reading, nor am I envied that some of my amendments would eventually be accepted by the Budgetor, no matter how well-intentioned, so respecting the situation in which we are and the damage that BiH can suffer from the failure to adopt this Budget. I do not dispute the procedure under which we are discussing the budget today, but I call on all of us, so that this may be the last time, that as last time we say this is the last time, that the BiH Parliament, that this dom agrees with compromises when it comes to a job that someone else is obliged to do. It is time, at the very least, that all of us in this country start on time doing what we are prescribed by the laws, it is time for everyone to start doing their jobs and we will no longer be in a position to make important decisions like this, so the budget of the BiH institution for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12664	Thank you. The word has been sent by Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12665	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, since there's been a lot of discussion and there's still a big agenda waiting for us in the rest, I'm going to try to comment very briefly on a few things. First of all, I want to say that, no matter how much the opposition has criticised and found today, it has made comments on the proposal for this budget, the happy and positive circumstance that we can, at this point, talk and be in a position to consider Bzjet for the next year and completely, I believe it for a certain time today and adopt it. It is also commendable that in the Presidency, as a proposal from this Budget, to say from the first time, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, who first of the three members of the Presidency, said he would support the budget for 2013 that will be in line with the fiscal, with the BiH Fiscal Council agreement. I would also like to say that, in general, this draft budget shows responsibility and rationality and the Presidency, and we should today as MPs and of course the Council of Ministers. Above all, responsibility and rationality towards the obligation of BiH, which is called external debt. What needs to be determined for this budget, no matter how much anyone defends it and wants it to be bigger, is to say that 41 is the consumer budget. So he doesn't even have a social component. or developmental. Nor stabilising, it is a purely consumer budget. And of course, when we say consumer, then we ask the question of who is now reaching out to the resources of this total mass called Budget for budget users of approximately 950 million marks. Of course, when you enter the internal structure of this Budget it is evident that in a large number, the opposition has finally said today, with a large number of budget users, the items have decreased this year compared to the previous one. And that is quite, to say the least, expected because this budget cannot be isolated from the entity budgets and from the overall economic and financial situation that exists today in BiH and cannot be ignored by the fact that entity budgets are taking credit to maintain how stable the social situation and, of course, maintain that level of budget beneficiaries in terms of giving they have so far. Someone got in trouble today and said if it was possible for the state to be in charge, now allegedly for the first time, to make a budget like this the way it is? So I can't understand that someone is asking the question that BiH is in debt, and that we have a situation that entities, entity budgets are already in debt and have problems of financial nature, but only that Bog shouldn't have Budget BiH. That's what's needed first to give BiH, and the rest of it lives, not to live, the rest of it, anyway, with any other budget users, I don't think it's right and it's not right. And now I'm going to be very short on the internal structure of this Budget. I have already said, therefore, that in this total mass of 950, about 950 million marks intended for budget users, therefore it is evident that in many budget users for this year are reduced funds than it was for the past 2012, and so in 2011. What can't go into the eye, so when you look at individual budget users, is that much of them, so they've been reduced most often at the salary position and certain material fees to employees, but we have a situation that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH has increased funds, significantly increased by 2,791,000 and where 1,060,000 of them are said to have agreed items. So the question is, what are these so agreed items that they have to cross a million marks? Another budget user who has significantly increased funds is the Court of BiH, who, for this year, means by 2013, is an increase of 1.639,000, and I will only remind you when we adopted the budget for 2012 that same Court of BiH increased the funds by 1,970,000, meaning the 2011-2012 relationship. And of course, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which also increased by 2013 to 408,000 and had an increase from 2011 to 2012 of 431.000. I know that last year, when we asked the question why the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and last year, i.e. when we adopted the Budget for 2012, it was also very expressive and remarkable that the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office had increased resources, and then we had the situation that a number of budget users were reduced funds and then it was said for the Court of Justice of BiH – so they have to increase it, apparently they need to establish a department for working with witnesses, and then we hear from the media that this department of witnesses has a very discriminatory purpose and a very discriminatory organisation. So, we have a situation, I'll just say in one sentence, that this same witness department allegedly works with witnesses, invites them, hears them in the Court of Justice of BiH, and then just in a month or two of these witnesses become indictees who are brought to the Court of BiH. But that's another story and some other topic, we'll have a chance to talk about it. So, I ask the Ministry of Finance to explain that, at the end of this debate, what are the motives and what was the foothold to increase the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH's assets, and we have in their internal structure in these institutions an item that most of these funds go to gross wages. So I know that we all know this, but I want the public to hear and know that in a situation where many people in BiH will suffer a reduction of 42 salaries due to the economic crisis, we have judges and prosecutors in these two institutions and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which raises salaries. Are they going to increase the number of employees or are they going to raise salaries, maybe both of them, I don't know, I'm asking what kind of arguments you had on their part to increase their items in gross personal income positions? And of course I ask whether it is moral and whether it is solid with all other people in BiH that everyone else suffers a reduction in salaries and ministers and MPs and all others, only those two institutions should increase by millions their personal incomes. I know that fellow Federation colleagues will defend these items and say so, they're a state-of-the-art, and that's so normal, but I, if anything else, want to hear the public say that this situation is now in the positions of budgetary users. And, of course, I will be particularly pleased to hear this well from the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which is a treatable analysis of the salaries of MPs and ministers and some other budgetary users, but we have never heard that you have analyzed the salaries of judges and prosecutors in these two institutions and what their effect is for the enormous salaries they have. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12666	The word has an MP, Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12667	Thank you, Chairman. Since we are an integral part of the congregation's majority of SDS will vote for this budget and our representatives in the Council of Ministers have participated in its creation and therefore all we have, and we disagree with it here from these benches, we have asked our minister who participated in all this. And this budget is actually part of the compromise, as always, that every decision in BiH will be part of a compromise and certainly we do not like everything from this budget. And we as the SDS Club would change a lot of things. At first, we do not like that in this way that we, as MPs, are discussing this most important document, which the government, any government, in this case, proposes. Budget is the most important document in every country. And it was supposed to go through the procedure as required by the democratic principle. And I'm giving a review. So even though part of the congregation's majority does not take away our right to criticise those who exercise executive power in front of us, I would like to give criticism that this entire Budget has not been referred to the procedure before. And as far as I can tell, on 16 November, he was referred to the procedure by the Council of Ministers towards the BiH presidency. The BiH presidency only delivered here in Parliament's procedure on 29 November. It was 13 days, 13 days before the BiH presidency decided to forward the budget further and gave the conclusion to provide funds for the reconstruction of the residence facility "Connect" and the implementation of an increase in security in the BiH presidency building. And the presidency took 13 days to talk about it and come to this conclusion, and today it takes us a few hours to pass this entire budget and adopt it. And that's not right. We knew about the IMF deadlines for a long time, and I think this is the biggest service to the executive authorities and entities and at BiH level, because they managed to push through and what might not have gone through in the regular procedure if we had more time to talk about it. But the most important thing in all this is the answer to why we came to this situation. BiH via entity, where real life and real government are being implemented, is dependent on the IMF, on loans without which it could not function in the next 43 years. And that's a fact that's devastating. That if we didn't adopt this budget today for a month, it wouldn't be possible for the government to function in entities. That's what's wrong and what we should all pay attention to together. And I must commend the opposition, who has the right to criticise, which is so correct, and I must say that we would be much more incorrect in your case, because everything requires criticism and you have a very difficult obligation to be a corrective factor in this case. I can't criticise what I don't like about this Budget because our SDS people participated in its creation, but that's why you have the democratic right to criticise and expect to do so, not only on this Budget but on other things. And to be clear, Budget BiH is not a developmental one and it will never be because it is not his intention. It is not possible to finance agriculture from the Budget of BiH, where Mr Lijanović..., it is not the purpose of the Budget of BiH, it is the budgets in entities. BiH's budget should not be sought out by the social component and addressed by social issues, is not the purpose of the Budget and BiH authorities. It's a task that should be done by those who exercise authority in entities. And that's why I think this is an extremely large 950 million KM figure that needs to be divided mainly into the functioning of the administration. And let me remind you, the power of the state depends not on the size of its budget at the state level. The power of the state depends on the willingness of its system to function, on citizens' standards and above all on the economy and the development of society. And BiH and its two entities are unfortunately heading in the opposite direction. And we can increase this budget as much as you want, it won't bring BiH any good. And that is why I propose that we agree together to make the next budget smaller and more appropriate to this poor and poor government in BiH, to agree to put pressure on entities and to save those funds that we have saved on the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs. Well, then we'd do better than that. Like this, this Budget will be adopted as it is and will bring nothing good or bad BiH. And I hope that the debate ends very quickly and I hope that the opposition will submit constructive amendments. We're not going to invest the amendments because we participated in its creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12668	Correction of the incorrect allegations, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12669	Thank you. It is not a correction to the incorrect assumption, perhaps a little clarification, an explanation in which I stand behind every word regarding the way the Budget came to this Parliamentary Assembly, and I will always advocate that this Parliament gives the last word, because it is the only one who can fix it. But the question of opposition and positions is a little more complicated than just opposition and state-level positions. Let's just take entity and cantonal, but also municipal power. If we don't adopt this budget and make a deal with the IMF, which includes agreement with entities, there won't be a municipality where someone now has the power to ask through others to be juryed to get credit from the RS government so the municipality can even live. So it's much more complicated than the story of the opposition and state-level positions. At the level of the whole of BiH, we have divided so much in opposition and position that neither the government nor the opposition are known anymore. And it's in everyone's interest, here's Mrs Ahmetović's statement – you know you're the position in Brcko, right. There's the only city in the RS that has no power but has entered the Party for BiH from the SDA past the SDP, right? So, you know. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12670	Replica, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12671	I have nothing special and it is not a replica, but of course an explanation, since the honourable MP tried to clarify exactly this position and the opposition and at all the policies relating to economic policy and the budget, so I very carefully and well understood that, of course. And I think that, when it comes to that discussion I heard from fellow Milica, it would primarily refer to the post as a rescue for entities and BiH. I think that the issue of the duty measure must depend primarily on its own resources, so perhaps, honourable MPs, we could talk about the subject of security of our own resources, which is what is related to entities and about a real economy that is objectively in big problems. So I suggest to myself and to you, it would be good if at all levels, and especially at entity level, a special debate was opened on the issue of debt repayment policy, because this debt would still need to be paid back, and it was a real economy, a respected colleague of mine, which was not done by municipalities. So the real economy issue is really a big problem. That's why I would recommend it to us, but that's not for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, of course, but it is for the entities. And the question of your own resources is a big problem. We don't have our own resources, and that's why we're looking for a loan, and we're in debt here. So that question will be one, in my opinion, of very important issues. I would therefore recommend that the issue of debt repayment policy be discussed at all levels, if something is easier. And for us, this was not a classic replica, but something we need to have, let us take note of all those who are sitting at any level of legislative authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12672	Replica, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12673	I have a correction to the incorrect allegations in what Mr. Bojić said. Namely, Mr. Bojić, I didn't speak at all about the debt, I just compared the budgets, so the relationship between entity and state budget duties. And you didn't listen or you didn't understand, so it wasn't how you interpreted it. That's one thing. And the other thing about responsibilities, so it's not just entity governments that are in charge, there's a lot of municipalities where the SDS is government, so we have all kinds of responsibilities. A concrete example in Bijeljina, where I live, where the budget is municipally at 55 million a year and the municipality is currently in charge of 60 million marks. So, don't make someone good here right now, someone's a bad person, a job, credits, and what the people say is a bad friend, it's a situation from local to state level, and don't take it out now where the SDS government has no responsibilities, but there's a situation in the RS where the SNSD government is or I don't know in other places. It's not an election campaign, and there's no need to talk like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12674	Replica, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12675	I'm probably not well understood, but hopefully I'll try to clarify now when it comes to the policy of duty. The municipalities cannot be charged without the consent of the Ministry of Finance, it is not possible, so the municipality of Bijeljina could not be in charge without the consent of the resolution ministry. So that's the law, that's the regulation and there are, you know very well, percentages how many municipalities can be in debt. I was talking about having a serious problem with the task measure. So, as objectively as we can, do we have our own funds to pay off, so these loans. We don't have those funds to pay off, that's what I was gonna say. And that's why I was talking about the need to open up first of all a debate on debt repayment policy, including that debt in Bijeljina, and that debt in Bijeljina. Because there's debt everywhere. In the end, we'll get into a situation where we won't be able to pay off a debt because we don't have our own resources. That's what I'm talking about. There's no real economy. That was, therefore, the accent that I wanted to point out to my colleagues, so the question of duty. And you said that entities are tortured by taking loans while they're being wasted and spent here. I don't dispute that kind of attitude, but I just want to say that the issue of responsibilities is something that represents an objective problem for all levels of government. So all levels of government are going to have a serious problem because we're borrowing, especially when these funds go into consumption and they don't go into real economy. The question of incentive is something of course, is something that needs to be broken down, but certainly I agree with you that it's a subject for entities and for municipalities. I hope I've tried to clarify from this what I wanted to say when it comes to debt recovery policy. That's not what you're talking about at any level of government.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12676	If it's not necessary to move on to the discussion. Replica, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12677	Here, in this part, I'm sorry Mr. Bosić came out, because I'm one of those who spoke about the needs of this Budget and of the citizens. Just to point out, it means that we have recognized this budget and for this short time the needs of the Directorate for European Integration, means the needs of the Directorate for European Integration, because we know that we are at the beginning of the second phase of the Stabilisation and Association process and that the direkcija should be strengthened humanely. If that's not the need for citizens, then I don't know which side we're looking at this problem from. Or another thing, so if you've analyzed the Budget then you'll see that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has provided certain funds. It showed the need for a 40m KM grant to finance the rights of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, all in line with the adopted State Strategy to address the problem of return and returnees. So we've talked about these things and they're the needs of citizens. We don't have that planned in this budget, and even those six million, here's what I didn't want to get into the structure, just to take over those donors. So, there is no need for further reduction, there is a need to increase, and here are these things that we have defined here, here are the issues of strategy, the issues of returning people or strengthening European, this Directorate for European Integration, in order for certain things to go forward in BiH, I repeat again in the process of BiH's path to the EU. And it's the interest of the citizens, and of that interest, I didn't mean the social or economic part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12678	Thank you. The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12679	Thank you very much. Well, when I follow this, in the last maybe one month of the budget situation at all levels of BiH, then I think we can best get a picture of the state of BiH. So one of the budgets, which is what you would say hastily adopted these days, I saw immediately announce that in the first month it will be a rebalancing, I think it speaks best of the quality and structure of that calculation. I must immediately say that it's good to have a little, if I may say so, sharp or democratically elevated atmosphere to know who the position is and who the opposition is. This guarantees that the budget will be adopted. In the past few years, you didn't know it, you didn't know who was voting for, who was against, so we were in the situation we were in. When it comes to this budget, here I can say on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues from HDZ that we will support it. For one simple reason, this is the budget of the parliamentary majority and in which our chairman of the Council of Ministers participated is absolutely sufficient reason for support, and on the other hand we believe that the budget, the adopted budget, is the best budget. And a good budget proposed if it wasn't adopted has no effect and doesn't mean anything at all. That's what this budget is like. It is the budget of BiH institutions and the service of external debt. This is not the result of the Council of Ministers' wishes or wishes, on the contrary, which came from the Fiscal Council and the adoption of the Global Framework where BiH institutions are limited to 950 million marks and they must, therefore, fit in. I want to believe that the Council of Ministers, which is most responsible for the functioning of all functions, executive functions at the state level, is able to recognise the priorities and will ensure all that is necessary. In the first row, where our priorities are, this is the Roadmap, or European Roadway, and everything that provides us with means normal functioning. As for the service of external debt, is it, we know that this is a debt that is less coming from the entity, but here concerns one fact and I think very little is said, this debt is almost doubled, by 100% increased than the previous year. What I see these days, and what is often mentioned, is that I have a certain allergy to that when the IMF tranche is mentioned. We are a member of the IMF, signed the Agreement with them, and we have the right to use their service, i.e. Signing arrangements where we are going and developing in partnership, promoting BiH, and therefore a stand-by arrangement has been signed where the IMF has simply supported the policies we have shown. But in these policies that must result in structural reforms that must ultimately be re-generating and reducing public spending, they said – yes, we want to help you, and we can help you because we will give you one short-term loan to bridge it until these results are positive within 2-3 years and then give it back to us. And I think that's the key to the problem. We also signed the previous arrangement, took over the policies, but we did not implement those policies, we did not reduce public spending. Of course, we took the tranche and now we've come into a position that precisely this 343 million increase from the previous year of the budget, it's just a match with the IMF's annuity which is exactly 330 million marks this year. So we're returning the short-term loan, it's not a loan that we took two or three years ago, and now we're returning it, and we haven't achieved positive results through the implementation of structural reforms. 47 I think that if we're going to do it this time with an IMF arrangement, that, here's the tranche of how it's heard to pull it back, then I say right out of these feet, let's save the arrangement with the IMF, but let's not pull the tranche. This leads us to a debt slavery we won't be able to get out of. You're in charge of public spending, I think it's a sin, you're in charge of the real investment sector, you can't be over-indebted. I'll remind you that Japan is one of the world's most in debt, about 180% of GDP. So it's no problem being in charge, the problem is how you're in charge and what you're in charge of. And of course, that what someone said also requires our more responsible approach towards debt itself, according to the real sector itself, and I think that energy should be spent on setting up a healthy political structure within BiH that will allow us to implement all good positive policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12680	The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I think that we have the opportunity to make one progress in macro-economic governance through today's adoption of the 2013 budget and to overcome the periods of temporary financing that introduce instability, uncertainty and which in a certain way bring down BiH's reputation and point to its limited capacity to manage economic change. What I want to point out is that we need the budget for 2013 not only because of the IMF today, but because we are just overcoming one problem of uncertainty in the management of budgets, external debt management, so that in some way we can improve BiH's reputation in this regard. And that's why I think it's one additional reason that actually points to the need for his timely adoption. We in the SDP are strongly focused on the development of BiH institutions. We see in them the possibility of synergies with entities being realized in many areas of economic and social action. And we don't appreciate the attitude towards institutions just by how much funds will be allocated to fund them. First of all, we think that in the current situation, the contribution to the development of institutions is in the timely adoption of the 2013 budget. And the other thing, a very important issue is the issue of rational use of funds that stand out in such difficult economic conditions in BiH, in a difficult economic situation. I would like to highlight the need and to appeal to the Council of Ministers not to stop activities to rationalise spending under the BiH Institutions Budget. We have made several radical moves in the 2012 Budget – reduction of wages, reduction of representation expenditure, use of telephones, travel costs, etc. This should continue in 2013 to be a year of further rationalisation. In doing so, the findings of the BiH Institutions Audit Office should be strongly used because they are a valuable guideline in which to act, in which direction further rationalisation should be achieved. I'd like to take a brief look at my opposition colleagues. In some of their statements there are insufficiently based remarks, say the one concerning the Ministry of Defence and their budget cuts by about 15 million KM. It is evident that the Ministry actually had the largest reduction in 48 that there was no more donations in 2012 for the retirement of 1,600 fired members of the Armed Forces and this does not appear and that is why the Ministry is reducing the 2013 budget. Therefore, in no way does it affect the functional capacity of the Ministry to act because the measure is envisaged. Finally, I would like to say that such a budget is shown to be an acceptable way of defining the budget on the basis of the Fiscal Council documents and on the basis of the document of the indicative budget. For 2012, however, we have had major remarks on the value of the budget, but it has been shown that BiH institutions have passed a successful stage of development this year and that even a part of the funds will not be spent. So, continuing with 2013 and these rationalisations, which must remain an inescapable part of the budget implementation activity, I think that the 2013 budget is basically sustainable, based on real economic opportunities, projected economic growth in BiH, and that it will allow basic tasks related to the development of the institution and the functions of BiH institutions to be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12682	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12683	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12684	I'm sorry, you had a look at the replica. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12685	Well, I have a replica to a respected professor who in his discussion tried to justify this concept of Budget and one of his sentences, I think that, is this a replica or correction of the wrong quote, says – Budget in 2012 has shown or proved that BiH institutions have passed a successful stage of development in 2012. So I would ask him to explain that sentence to us, which is a successful phase that BiH institutions passed in 2012, which is an example. Either I didn't get it right, or the professor probably didn't explain it well to us. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12686	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12687	I thank the chairman. First, let me express my satisfaction that the chairman of the Council of Ministers today was most of the debate on Budget here in the O.R., followed with attention, and I must say that this is a really rare 49 example. We haven't witnessed much in recent years that we have such attention from the Council of Ministers' chairman when he is drinking Budget, regardless of who is chairman of the Council of Ministers. Secondly, let me also express my regret that today is not with us and the Minister of Finance in the Council of Ministers, and here's less everybody knows the reasons, so let's also wish him this way as quickly as possible, and I know that today he will have happy news that Budget was adopted in parliamentary procedure, so it will probably speed up his recovery a little bit. But here, I can't talk about the budget without the finance minister who's recovering without wishing him a quick recovery, is it? I may be having a bit of an unusual discussion, but let me also mention that it's a good thing that the Council of Ministers' chairman has been going through a lot of discussions today, a few days ago in the media has been publicized, it's been transmitted by most media, or portals, etc., that adoption of Budget is not a condition for a stand-by arrangement and so on, which means or which would mean that we can relax today regardless of that press that someone thinks we really have above ourselves. I'm glad Mr. Vrankić gave part of the clarification. But here's how relaxed we can discuss Budget is the fact that nothing the IMF asks us to do, because the IMF is just asking us to respect what our authorities have committed to in the letter of intent. So don't, once we get rid of that big fan, 'cause the IMF's good for someone to come along as some kind of world cop, so we have to do that, so we know we don't have to. Here, and I'm really glad it's Mr. Bevanda, and I understand that in that context he went to the media in that way. So, we can discuss the Budget a little relativally, in general perhaps a little wider than the Budget of the Institutions, for the financing of institutions and international obligations. And even though this is in the first reading today, at least now during this debate, so the debate on budgetary principles, I am not going to discuss the usual school budget principles that really don't need to be discussed, which are respected here, thanks above all to the expertise of the people who work in the Ministry of Finance and of which some of them are sitting here today in this room. So, I'm not going to talk about classic school budget principles, but I want to talk about the time we're discussing Budget. And I want to apostrophe this time where we are having discussions about all the BiH budgets that you see being run with a different charge and where they are already adopted, where they are announced even in less than a month and rebalancing, where there are fierce disputes in the congregations, much harder than the previous years. So we are talking about budgets and budget procedures, budget adoptions in very different circumstances than before, and this should be taken into account today and here. That's also the answer to all those who are, for example, at the discussion of Mr. Belkić at the very beginning today, they made unargumented parallels. Because I have no intention of calling anything or anyone else here, but there have been attempts to make parallels with past times, and at the same time forget that our economic growth rate has dropped dramatically, unemployment in BiH has increased dramatically, foreign investment has fallen drastically, the country's credit rating has fallen, external debt has been increased, fiscal imbalance has been stressed. So we have completely different circumstances and we can't make some parallels. I am not going to talk about why it is, but I want to remind again why we have been looking for and why this Parliament has also supported this initiative, I suppose it was also the hearing of all of us that we need to discuss here the economic problem, perhaps a little different behaviour for all of us in BiH, and also in that segment relating to the fiscal sector, or our budgets. 50 Having in mind and limited in the discussion, I will try in the next part of the discussion to apostrophe something that I think is very important in the context of the discussion. Nine days ago in Brussels, a European summit that lasted in that final part, in the official sense, took place several days, including nights, or especially Thursday night, where a heated debate on the EU's budget is being held. But to mention only, there was no debate on the EU's 2013 budget, there are well-known gauges, there could only be a change possibly in those envisaged ranges for the EU budget. However, the EU budget for 2014-2020 is being discussed, so the medium-term budgetary framework, i.e. the financial perspective. Why am I bringing this up? The EU, all the misunderstandings that resulted in a negative outcome in the final fiscal perspective agreement in the coming period, i.e. the EU budget for the period until 2020, were subject to a heated debate and will know exactly how many EU gauges will have for Budget 2018. Somebody correct me, I understand that a little bit more, so I'm not bringing this up by accident. Now you see what we have, I also need to point out, that the European Commission, which has been a proposer of one proposal, and another proposal, the European Council of Mr Van Ronfi, which had several proposals and a final other version in this final, final version, to say, the procedures in this previous period, that is, 9 days ago, were corrected, or adopted after a full-night consultation on a bilateral basis with each EU member country. So, the European Commission, the European Council, the European Parliament and so on. and they all knew, they had one proposal before them, other requirements of certain countries and so on, and we're talking about the Budget of BiH, or the Budget for the Financing of Institutions and International Obligations, and someone else has established the gauges, so now I'm not going to talk about whether they're wrong, whether they're good at all, but to be aware, that we're not playing democracy. The budget of state institutions and international obligations has been determined in the ratio established by the Fiscal Council, the ratio where the Fiscal Council has determined how many entities will withdraw from the Single Account, how many states. The ratio in which the allocation coefficients are determined, the allocation coefficient changes relative to the previous fiscal period, etc. And in which, let's be realistic, someone else has decided that state institutions don't have any increases. The increase in the government's budget and international obligations can only be to the extent that our external debt is increasing, in which 99.9% of the entities have committed this state. If we don't play democracy, we can today in the framework of the gauges established on the Fiscal Council, here's a chance to take advantage of that, that I, today I heard from Mr Mehmedović, seems to me, when he mentioned perhaps at one point, that it was a lapus, that the SDA did not give consent to the fiscal framework in the medium term. I do not know that a fiscal framework has been delivered to the parliamentary procedure, not to say that Parliament is only aware, not to say that we could possibly, so possibly change something. Correct me, Mr. Bevanda, I commended you at the very beginning, but if you need me, I will repeat the words of praise again. So I think no one has seen the fiscal framework, and that's where the gauges that we're playing some democracy about are we going to do a little plus, minus and so on. Mr. Bašić rightly speaks, he also calls for patriotism, no, here I am not giving the right to be any greater patriot than I am, I am not even going to say that someone and a smaller patriot, Mrs. Marković mentions that for some institutions there is too much money, so let's cut them down a little bit, so I was wondering if it would be SBB and SNSD to vote against this proposal that is before us today. I mean, because it's hard to reach a consensus that we can cut resources, for example. to the Court and the D.A. or to cut down on the budget and so on, we can't increase it, so I think, a little bit, it seems to me that we're a little bit more of a democracy than we really are. So, the fiscal framework has established the gauges, this Parliament needs to know that. Are they... 51
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12688	I'd like to ask Professor Hadžiahmetović, here... 10 minutes is a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12689	I'm sorry, I'm really going to bring the end, I just want to mention that we're making sure that we don't have much choice. I will repeat, of course, that the BiH Party will not support in principle, for what reason. The first thing we play democracy in these times, and times are different than before, the second thing we appreciate is that, within the fiscal structure of BiH, the burden of the economic crisis is being unfairly and unequally distributed, that a much higher burden is being transferred to state institutions, although entities and entity governments and budgets are the reason, the greater reason for fiscal imbalances. After all, I also want to mention until we open the story, which we have initiated, about the economic problem we will deal with this act of democracy in the story of the budget and the budgetary, adoption of the budget for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12690	Thank you. On this occasion, I would also like to join in the commendation, so the chairman of the Council of Ministers at his presence at this session, but I also want to highlight the presence of Deputy Finance Minister all the time as we discuss the Budget here. And also to say that today is the Catholic holiday of svet Nikola, and svet Nikola is among other things a protector of the poor, so he will help and hope that this poor Budget is bereaved and this time we would like to honor our Nikola Špirić with this day by adopting the Budget and congratulating all nikola, including Nik Lozančić, our next debater, the name of the day. Here you go, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12691	Thank you very much for your congratulations, first of all. But here, in the wake of democratic enthusiasm today, I decided to join myself, and I had a good introduction to this debate by my distinguished colleague Hadžiahmetović, especially the second part of her debate, which is well known to all of us, and we are well aware that there is a framework. And we talked today about everything and everything, although everyone who participated in the debate knew, before they came forward, those who would support the budget would support it, they didn't report back, they had to call. Those who do not support whatever they are told will not support it. And the question of adopting the budget is not a question of any arguments for, or against, but rather a matter of predetermined how one will apply to this budget. Today, the least talk was about what is really a point of the agenda, and the agenda point is, as we have clarified in here several times in an attempt to clarify – Considering the Bill on the Budget of BiH Institutions and the international obligations of BiH in the first reading. So, in reading when we're talking about principles and when we're talking about constitutional grounds, is it for the adoption of a certain legal rule? Now, since it is doubtful for us whether there is a constitutional basis, but in some other point of the agenda and for amendments to the Constitution, I am surprised that today someone has not disputed the constitutional basis for the adoption of the budget. But, well, thank Bog there's no one. When it comes to principles, it has tried to talk in different ways about the timing or untimeliness of this Budget. It is in accordance with the 52nd Law on the financing of institutions in good time, as it has not yet expired for its adoption. So that condition is hard to argue with, it might be good if we got it in the ninth month, even though it's not an obligation under the law, but here maybe it is sometimes. When it comes to criticism at the expense of the restrictiveity of this Budget, I must say that I have not heard a single reason, an argument why. It is mainly the flat-rate assessment that the restrictive budget aims to prevent BiH institutions from functioning. I have not heard any concrete example of which the institution is due to the amount of funds intended for this or the disabled functioning. And according to the reports, there's been an audit, and even for the past financial year, the fiscal year, unfortunately, and for this year there's going to be a similar situation, there's still room to be saved in this budget. And it's not a problem of the total amount, so to say, the budget, because this isn't, as much as we try to get away from that fact, so when it suits us to represent the budget of the institutions as the budget of the state with all the elements of the budget, this is the cost of salaries and the material costs of institutions and employees of BiH institutions. The point, there is no further, no developmental, no underdevelopment, no social, no social, he is not so envisaged by the system or the Constitution. So we can't now if it's right for us to put it that way. On the other hand, those items that have so far been miraculously located in this budget have been reduced. I mean, first of all, they're meant to implement Annex VII and they're at the lowest level so far. And I'd like to, so I'll think about it until the amendment is made, and I'll be willing to increase those funds. However, if these funds will be available in the Federation, then zero would be introduced. So, there's nothing for those purposes, so it better not be because, of course, those end-users have nothing. So it's better that they're gone, so they can use them for something else. Well, here, I'm thinking about whether or not I'm going to act amendmental. What it has and has nothing to do with this proposal's calculation, but there are, there are a lot of elements that concern what we've got in this paper, unfortunately, we don't have much influence. But what is worrying is the fact that the budget of institutions and external debt is almost even. So, the external debt next year is almost 800,000, and the institution's budget is a little over 900,000, so almost 1:1, that's something that, if we want to play institutions and budgets and what we have to take care of and how. And despite the fact that it is so not sure that we are following in the rationalisation measures, in measures, here is how well the esteemed colleague Vrankić and the esteemed colleague Hadžiahmetović, the IMF, did not impose anything on the IMF. We have committed ourselves to doing some things here, and what we are inconclusive and what we would do from time to time, that's another problem. So, I'd like this stand-by arrangement with the IMF to really not go down as the previous one, so that these measures that we're taking are in favour of that it's justified that if Bog were to adopt this budget today and make it possible for others, even though here you see how a man finds himself in every position, on the one hand because of end-users' calculations, here I am today and my colleagues at the club have already said, means to support this budget to survive the entities. But when I think of the unconstitutional power in a federal entity, and I would like to tempt them, however, I cannot play with other people's fates, and yet I will make a contribution that this unconstitutional government can also satisfy the needs of the citizens of that entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12692	Thank you. 53 We have no more applications for discussion and according to the agenda and the conclusion of the agenda we will now approach the statement on the BiH institutions' budget in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12693	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12694	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12695	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12696	Two minutes break. [[PAUZA]] I would ask colleagues and fellow MPs to take their seats, it seems that consultations between the SDA and the SDP are over. I would ask distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs to prepare for a statement on the Bill on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013 in the first reading. And immediately report that after the vote, we will take a break from 50 minutes to 15:00 hours and then we will continue to work. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 27 votes for, 9 against and 4 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we adopted the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013 in the first reading. I would once again like to draw attention to the fact that MPs can submit amendments and hand them over by 5:00 to the authorities, and now we'll have a break by 3:00. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12700	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12701	Fellow Members and colleagues, regardless of what we are discussing today on the Commission's negative opinion as a whole, it was positive when it comes to constitutional basis and legal system and negatively when it comes to the principles of these proposals. And before I ask certain questions to the parties whose representatives voted against the principles and constitutional basis of these amendments, I would like once again to say a few words about the motives that led us to propose these amendments. In addition to BiH's obligation to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the Human Rights Court's decision in Strasbourg against national minorities and those who do not speak nationally, the conclusion or if you want a practical consensus and the former and current parliamentary majority to be implemented in a fundamental way, i.e. in a way that meets the conditions of the verdict, but at the same time to resolve some other issues that burden BiH in the functioning of BiH institutions, political relations, relations between constituent peoples. And finally, to resolve certain issues that could be the reason for some new European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg. So, led by this motive by the four MPs we represent, so most of the Croatian votes, if you will in BiH, have submitted a set of amendments. We stuck to, so exclusively these gauges that I was just talking about, and no way did we enter into a change in the structure, neither administrative nor constitutional in BiH, we stuck to the end of the concept of institutional equality for all citizens in BiH, but also for the constitutional position of three constituent peoples. So we have therefore decided to propose to the House of Peoples of 24 Envoys, by 7 for the constituent peoples and 3 for representatives of the national minorities and of the national undefined, just to allow all three constituent peoples to choose in the House of the Peoples of BiH from the territory of both these entities, as well as for representatives of national minorities. By sticking to the principles of constitutional equality, we have introduced three constituent nations into the decision-making process of the House of Peoples – that in addition to the super-half majority that includes the entity majority of both entities, i.e. the entity quota, we need to have a majority in each of the clubs of the constituent peoples. Likewise, by sticking to the very concept of equality of three constituent peoples, which cannot be achieved through the vote on the Council of Ministers, on the confirmation of the Council of Ministers alone in this House, we have introduced the House of Peoples as an equal House in confirming the Council of Ministers. Seeking to avoid the problems that we are witnessing today where the Proposer is 55 BiH Presidency and which are repeated in continuity here almost from Dejton to the present day, we have introduced a change in the power to propose the Budget has a Council of Ministers of BiH. By sticking to, therefore, the need to achieve constitutional equality between all three constituent nations, with the possibility that representatives of national minorities and those who do not state themselves can run and that they can be elected, we have determined that this choice should be made indirectly in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in a way that is precise in these proposals, and I would not wish to further elaborate. Therefore, we have absolutely followed the political arrangements that have been reached and I hope that neither of the two constituent peoples, whose representatives have voted negatively on the principles or constitutional basis of this Law, and at the same time that we have tried to equate the Croatian position, when the choice in these two institutions is on the issue of the European Court's ruling in Strasbourg. Now a few questions. So, you will easily see from the Report that only two representatives or two members of the Constitutional Commission voted for the constitutional basis and the principles of this Law, both who are part of the motion, Mr Mate Franjičević and myself. I can now ask why two members of the Committee have actually challenged the constitutional basis for constitutional amendments. I don't see any logic in that, and even less legal justification. I want to ask the question to the political representatives, I will be concrete, at the risk of provoking and replicating here, representatives of the SDA who, in fact, are able to choose their legitimate representatives in the House of the Federation, and then indirectly and in the House of Peoples of the State, declare the establishment of a third entity. At the same time, representatives of the same party, in Herzegovina, or their president, as I recall... Mostara, seek the division of Mostar to protect the national interest of Bošnjak in Mostar, or even further from that, requires the establishment of a Bosniak entity at the move of Počitel-Blagaj-Sutin, which would allow for the equality of Bošnjak in Mostar. That's profoundly unprincipled, not to say another more difficult word or if you want cynicism. The cynicism of one who thinks he's more powerful and has a much greater right to impose, so double criteria. I am asking a question and here is a partner in this parliamentary majority of SDP, whose representatives voted against the principles of this Law – do the principles of these amendments differ in principle, so in principle from the agreement reached by four parties in the HDZ Federation of BiH, HDZ '90, SDP and SBB? So, I... expected that we would pay a sad attention to these amendments, because they were not done in order, but they were done very seriously and with the intention of being at least the basis for the debate, with the possibility of reacting to them and the amendment. But at this point, I don't want to further elaborate this thing. We will certainly implement this verdict, about the amendments, about the amendment of the Constitution. I hope that in the capacity of the political parties' representatives we will come to an agreement, but in essence we can come to it and be good for all three peoples and for BiH, only in a way to satisfy the fundamental interests or a fair position for all three constituent peoples and, of course, citizens who do not declare themselves members of the constituent peoples, including national minorities. Because any other approach would be harmful to BiH. We can't accept the fact that we reject proposals just because we can. We need to go in the direction of a solution that's possible. And I believe, I assure you, in fact, not that 56 believe that these proposals are actually proposals for a possible BiH. We, now, are neither here nor on the agenda to discuss the essence of these solutions, I think that we are as proposings, or our party or our policy, over a period that has proved to be open enough for and different solutions from these, but we have not encountered our partners. What is most disturbing to me is that during the debate on the Constitutional Legal Commission on these amendments, those who voted against, either constitutional basis, or the principles of this Law, did not in any word explain or felt the need to explain why they were against. What is it in these amendments is actually that it does not comply with the principles or that it does not conform to the constitutional basis. So, this sends me one worrying message that there is still not enough readiness here in Parliament, enough courage if you want, to move towards solutions that, firstly, in the short term, will, therefore, fulfil BiH's obligations towards its European path, and in the long run to ensure its self-sustainability. Here, so much for this. I have no illusions that today's debate will drastically change the fate of these omandmans, but I have also felt the political and human need to say this as a person who, behold, wants to build this country, but a country of three equal constituent peoples and all citizens, who will have a European path and become a member of the prosperous states of Europe. Thank you very much. Replica, distinguished representative Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12702	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's to correcting the wrong quote. So the city, you mentioned the town of Mostar and the initiative of certain members of the SDA in Mostar about the division of the city. The city essentially includes two and more municipalities in its structure. In no case does the SDA City Committee's initiative in Mostar propose a multi-municipality Mostar does not mean the division of the city,... territorial demarcation within the city and creates this structure that essentially produces the city as a city. We will return here to Sarajevo and we know that the city of Sarajevo is composed of several municipalities and I have not heard any political party speak of Sarajevo as a divided city in recent years or previous years. ... because of the termology itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12703	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12704	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I, like you, Mr. Chairman for a moment, have no illusions, of course, that I will change my views and thoughts about these constitutional amendments which are an attempt by the HDZ of BiH, the HDZ 1990, in an appropriate way, and in our humble view, best for BiH, for all its peoples and citizens living in it, to meet those requirements that stem from the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc against BiH, and that in the realization of that requirement, so 57 of the applied request does not go to concreteisation of the existing situation in which there is no longer any serious political officer in BiH to dispute it. The position of the Croatian people is not equal, is not on the same level as the position of the other two constituent peoples. Therefore, the realization of this judgment through the corresponding amendments and through the implementation of them may be different. This judgment can also be realised in a way that the existing unequal position of three constituent nations is concreteized. We all know that this solution, whatever it may be, cannot remain, can not be isolated under a glass bell, but will undoubtedly reflect on the future position of three constituent peoples and all those who are citizens of BiH and who are not, do not belong to any of the three constituent peoples. That is why, in our view, it is necessary to seek such a solution that will completely eliminate discrimination, which is evident in the current constitutional regulations, when it comes to citizens of BiH who are not members of the three constituent peoples, but who will not concreteise the unequal position of three constituent peoples, but will ensure true equality... Now, no one at some principle or rhetorical level is going to say that against equality is all three constituent nations and all the citizens who live here. The problem arises when it needs to be concretely addressed into constitutional matter, so that it can be realised. Then there are both principled and unencumbered explanations and reasons or not even said, as was unfortunately the last, not the last, at the last session of the Constitutional Commission of this House. And then comes the question – what is it that is kept in this way? Clearly, positions that are not true equality are kept. And here we were the other day, me and colleague Šefik Džaferović and colleague Aleksandra Pandurević in Budapest, and during one of the meetings with colleagues from the Constitutional Commission of the Hungarian Parliament, I said it was about a situation in which, like the one in Orvell's animal farm where all animals are equal, only some are more equal. And here, too, it is rhetorically allowed that all nations should be equal, but when it is necessary and realised carefully to make sure that some remain more equal than others or others. There are, of course, different elements, I guess why that is. There is also a lack of courage, there is a fact that follows everything, all our attempts to agree, to make agreements in the interests of this country and its peoples and citizens, and agreements and agreements are not possible without compromise. And mostly all these attempts are being met on the knife, because we have, I don't know, we have such a situation, such an environment is being created, such a change, and so on, that those who are willing to make compromises are declaring traitors of national interests, etc., etc. And there's no end to that. I hope, on the trail of what the relevant political leaders in this country have recently agreed and placed in the form of so-called. Mostar statements, that on this trail, which is also a clue of these constitutional amendments that we have proposed, perhaps in something different form, will find courage, and visions, and a desire to take a step forward in order to Ljubić this country possible, self-sustaining and equally desirable for all its peoples and for all the citizens who live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12705	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12706	Dear Chairman, my replica refers to part of your presentation. I must agree with you that the disapproval of the constitutional basis is inconclusive in this situation. Because if anything has a constitutional basis, then it's an amendment to the Constitution. And it's not the first time that these things happen, and in that sense we all need to get serious and when we talk about constitutional grounds to define it as a plus-mine, there is or no constitutional basis, and not whether we like it or not. And you're right about that. Some of the principles contained in the proposal for constitutional amendments that you have submitted to the procedure are acceptable. I would even say useful as an idea for further development and perhaps something that would lead to a final solution. But their total, for us from the SDP, is not. But I can't help but notice that you haven't asked our colleagues from the SNSD and the SDS when you were asking questions to colleagues from the SDA and the SDP about our views. It is clear to all of us that the amendments to the Constitution require two-thirds and thus one extends the consensus on what will come to Parliament. It is also true that one of the necessary steps from the Map of Roads has been formally met that, within a certain deadline, amendments have been released into the procedure, which does not mean that the conditions of the Map have been applied as a whole, because they will not be if we do not adopt these amendments. But I really think that, from the formal fulfillment of some of the conditions, it is much more important for us to be a broader consensus that the amendments that would come here in Parliament will make it realistic. And I finally have to agree with you also on one thing you mentioned, as one of the examples of our indiscipline, and you mentioned about Mostar. It is more devastating that in BiH today we have an example of a disintegration process just like Mostar. And the division of Mostar, or a proposal for the division of Mostar based on ethnic principles, is indeed a disintegration process. And we're absolutely against it. It is obvious that politics is used to a good extent both by the digitron and by counting who it is, and fellow Franjičević has well noted that we are all in principle equal, only one more equal depending on the part of BiH or the local environment we are talking about. And as long as that's so unfortunately we'll be here where we are right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12707	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12708	And here, I'm done with what I said, supporting you, not to end up with something that's coming down with what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12709	Thank you. I just want to say that I called first, so representatives of the SNSD and the SDS who voted against the constitutional basis. I didn't just name it a saying, but they would, they recognized each other I mean and they all recognized them believe here. So, the following came to the debate, with a esteemed representative, Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12710	I welcome the proposal's efforts and I have no doubt about the motives that have been presented here. However, the debate of this day can only be seen as a sort of opportunity to again, so to speak, that is, re-present our vision of how to resolve this verdict, to ask one another a little bit about some things, but I am not optimistic that we can solve things at today's session. And for this reason, I reported the most, and finally, the Party for BiH offered amendments in 2010, three months after the verdict, which were of course rejected because they were not agreed in advance. So, I recommend to the promoters both today and this one who is waiting for the procedure in order, so we have amendments Mr Živković, we have amendments to the SDA, I think, I suggest that they withdraw it nicely and that the new parliamentary majority that has the capacity, which we have checked here, so when we confirm the ministers, voted 30 for that decision, despite the addition of one member who will vote whenever it is necessary, means the new parliamentary majority has a two-thirds majority, and I suggest that these proposals be withdrawn. This would also be in line with the information provided by 02.10. The Council of Ministers' Office at the European Court of Human Rights, where it informs us of the decision of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers in September 2012, calling on political leaders, so the Committee has also figured out what time it is, and is calling on political leaders to amend the constitution by 30 November, after the earlier deadline of 30 November was breached. So the leaders are invited to agree on a solution, to send this solution before the vote here for a little consultation in the Council of Europe and then to make a final decision here. So this is right-wing indeed. So, I suggest, pull all of these extensions, including this one today. Six leaders at the table, agree, send it to Brussels. When you get the green light back here and you have 30 votes and you finish the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12711	Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12712	Well, it's not exactly a classic replica, but here I think I have a better suggestion. So I propose to all those who in April 2006 brought down the April package to do two things. First, to finally propose amendments here. And secondly, to make these amendments better than those that were brought down in April 2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12713	Thank you. It's just that there aren't all the representatives of these parties, so it's not possible to make your proposal. Replica, the esteemed representative of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12714	So, as far as the amendments are concerned, we're up-to-date. Do you remember or do you not remember, so we react and propose amendments. This kind of amendment, that is, on this subject we proposed in 10. Month, 2010. March of the month. I failed to say that the College should consider proposing to the House the disbanding of this Commission, let Mr Džaferović not mind me, this Commission for the preparation of the amendments because it doesn't make any sense anymore. What we had to talk about there, we told it. And about April. So I believe that you and the next 50 years will be obsessed with it. If amendments had been adopted, you wouldn't be sitting here. This House would be disbanded. Study a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12715	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12716	It is not disputed, we know very well who can all be the proposer of the amendment to the BiH Constitution. Among other things, every MP, and we're only 42, is here in the House of Representatives, able to propose these amendments. However, the problem is to find the necessary majority to adopt these amendments. Those who brought this down in April 2006 never provided a parliamentary majority for anything close to that reach to which the 2006 amendments were made. And the whole debate about the Constitution is the least debate about any individual, whether he was in the College or here in the parliamentary benches. And when you mention a 50-year-old figure, maybe we'll suffer the consequences of 50 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12717	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12718	You see, I respect different opinions. I may be a little more democratic than some others who don't respect different opinions than those they think they should be. But here, let me express my satisfaction that Mr. Bećirović said exactly what he just said, which is that the promoters provide the two-thirds majority and so on. So she remembers a little bit what you refer to, and in 2006, and the April package and so on, that just you who stood behind that proposal, you didn't provide a two-thirds majority. So that's number one. Number two, honoring those who were then against being reproposed and so on, here's Mr. Belkić reminds you a little of what it was, at least as far as the Party for BiH is concerned, in terms of the proposal, but here's to remind you that this proposal also encourages some of those who, as you like to say so, jumped out of the two-thirds majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12719	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12720	So, we were able to raise the parliamentary majority in the 2006-2010 term. As a result, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is also the result and is a visa-free regime. However, the most I've reported for the following, does this statement of yours mean giving up those views you made at the press conference a few months ago?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12721	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12722	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We should not at all be convinced that this is a very important and very important problem and allow me to be fully open, so it is written there in the report of the Constitutional Commission, I say what are the reasons that led me to support the constitutional basis and what reasons that led me to challenge the principles of the proposed Amendments II and Amendment III of the HDZ of BiH and HDZ in 1990 at the Constitution of BiH. I think we need to speak openly here, completely so openly. And if there's anything that's worth it, it's that we can speak openly. Now I'm going to tell you quite frankly what it is and tell you my reasons, and you all have to think about whether it can be criticized or not, whether it can withstand criticism or can't, which is why I've been acting the way I've been acting. Amendment II – so I will, in particular, cross over, I will not even talk about the April package, I have talked about it for a long time, I have talked about it for a long time. And I think BiH would be in a much better position if it were adopted, but it doesn't matter anymore, it's not adopted and we have what we have. Amendment II concerns, the 1990 Amendment of the BiH and HDZ II of 1990 refers to the House of Peoples. I believe that the verdict could be implemented or that the verdict would be implemented if, among other things, a constitutional reform of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was carried out. For me in that amendment, much is acceptable, starting with the structure of the House of Peoples, the way of choice. It provides, therefore, that we are talking about the State Parament, predicting that the House of Peoples numbers 24 representatives, 7 from the constituent peoples, 3 from the others, that 6 Bošnjak and Hrvat come from the Federation, 2 Srbin and 2 from the others. That 5 Srbin, 1 Bokšnjak, 1 Hrvat, 1 in the ranks of others come from the RS and that the clubs of the people in the entity parliaments, in the Federation in the House of Peoples, and in the RS in the Council of Peoples, are elected by those representatives who come to the House of Peoples. It's acceptable for me, and there's no particular dilemma for me. I think that part of the amendment goes further than Sejdić and Finc's verdicts and solves the issue and future rulings that we will receive, because it is evident that, apart from remaining discriminated in the whole of BiH, Srbin are discriminated against when it comes to the Federation of BiH and the Bošnjak and Hrvat when it comes to Republika Srpska, so in Republika Srpska. And that amendment solves that question. But there is one thing about this amendment that is so important and that is so important, and I want to talk about it now open here, which cancels all of this that we talked about, which completely changes the concept of BiH and makes it impossible. So that amendment makes it impossible, so that part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12723	I'd ask the MPs to refrain from talking in benches.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12724	So, the amendment says this - that the House of Peoples that makes all decisions in order for Parliament to be adopted must be approved by both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. And it is said that the decisions of the House of Nations are made by the majority of votes, by the majority that must be included in it, so each decision, most of them in each of the clubs of the constituent peoples. It's something that's a complete blockade of BiH. It is understood that the government will also be confirmed, or the Council of Ministers by the House of Peoples. And then you can imagine, so in one club that's going to count seven members, so we're talking about constitutional nations, the whole state depends on the attitude of four people. You have therefore, on all matters, so on all the issues that Parliament decides about, 50, how many people will now be 42 plus an increase in the House of Peoples, I don't know now that I don't add up, so you have the entire Parliament both at home with one position and you have in one club, it doesn't matter which, four people who say - it can't, and the state stands. I don't think that can be a principle for all questions. This may be the principle of questions of the vital national interest of the constituent peoples and it should then be and it is justified then, with the control of an independent arbiter, it is today the Constitutional Court, which will say when there is a dispute between us whether there is a question of vital interest or not, whether it is a question of vital interest or not. It's a passage through which I can go through decisions. To leave all questions, so here is the choice of the Council of Ministers, to be in the hands of four people in relation to the complete other Parliament, I ask you, consider, is that possible? I know that there are blockades in the House of Representatives too, and we need to go through block resolution, not by means of a new blockade. I think it's something that's completely unacceptable and that makes this country impossible. And that is so, therefore, a dangerous provision in that amendment that when I read it, I wondered if anyone had, from where I don't know, I don't know how to propose such a provision at all. Vital interests should be protected and must be protected, I say they must be protected. Vital interest is when someone calls and we all agree. When we disagree, an independent arbiter, it is today the Constitutional Court, in which they sit between others and strangers, says that it is or is not. I respect that, too. I respect that, it's a gateway. But to leave it to four people, no matter what people, it's something that's got me in the position that, when it comes to this amendment, I can't support him because of this or at the level of principle. So, I've spoken completely openly, and I completely want to talk about this. When it comes to the presidency. The BiH presidency, the amendment has been set up so that the people's home again and four people, any club, are placed in a position to decide who will be a member of the collective head of state. I accept the role of being run, I accept the equal role of both home and home, but to exclude the House of Representatives from it and to give the dominant, judging role of the House of Peoples, means to abolish the civil home, or the Parliament of BiH. And I say it out loud here. And I ask you that when we talk about these things, then 63 we try to understand things from this side. So, in the election of the head of state, we left both homes in the April package. This is where the crucial role of the House of Peoples is given. Furthermore, when you change the way the BiH presidency members are elected, the presidency is a collective head of state. The presidency is the head of the executive government, according to our Constitution, the Council of Ministers is practically, according to the Constitution, the BiH presidency's body. The Bureau is the head of the executive board. That's what I started talking about last time, but it's a final discussion. You're changing your choice from directly to indirectly. You need to change your jurisdiction. This is where they tried to do it, but it wasn't consistently done. Be careful, for the budget in the amendment, it is not mentioned anywhere in the amendment's word Budget, but all other issues in the presidency's jurisdiction, which are not mentioned here, are in the power of the Council of Ministers. And Budget is one of the essential characteristics and powers of the presidency as head of executive power. So this operation isn't consistent until the end. And the right to tell you, the permanent statements by the representatives of both HDZs that they are ready and that neither asymmetric solutions are problematic for them when it comes to the election of members of the Psrednitate. So if Republika Srpska is seeking to be direct from Republika Srpska there is nothing against being indirect from here, it is something that led us in the SDA, among other things, as well as this dominant role of the House of Peoples, to finally take a stand, to remove all possible dilemmas, a direct choice of members of the Presidency, and that is it. And we have amendments to that subject. This is completely out of the open, what I see and how SDA, here's to say, sees the situation around this. If there's any later needs, I'll re-engage. Here I am in the 10th minute. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12725	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12726	Replica, chairman of the House of Representatives, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12727	A colleague, Džaferović, was clear today and explained why he was against it and I would prefer it if that were said on the Constitutional Commission. However, from this presentation, I haven't really received an answer yet, which is why the principles of this proposal are not acceptable, because even these things he's discussed can be changed by amendments. However, what I have come to replicate is, in fact, a fundamental distinction between mine and yours regarding BiH. These four men you speak of are not four men in the House of Nations. That's most of one nation. So they represent most of one constitutive people. And that is essentially our distinction, therefore, and the fundamental difference with regard to BiH, i.e. the view of possible BiH. On the other hand, you know as well as I do, perhaps even better for you than I do, that we in the House of Nations today have a situation that one club of a constituent people, so to speak, is identical ethnically and entityally. We have today at the House of Peoples in one club, ethnic and 64 entity decisions in one club. It's a Serbian People's Club that comes all five from Republika Srpska. And what is the problem that the Hrvat will get the same opportunity, this is what Srbin currently have and I do not dispute it, I just want it for the Hrvat in the House of Peoples? And what's the problem with being ethnically decided? I believe, therefore, there may be a problem for you. As far as the presidency is concerned, the candidates come from the so-called. The civil home you're talking about. Only this House can get candidates in the House of Peoples. The home of the people, or its clubs,...the majority of the House of Peoples which includes the majority in each club of constituent peoples determines a proposal that once again goes to confirm here at the House of Representatives or as you say the House of Civilians. Therefore, no one has disputed the role of a civil household chosen on a proportionate basis. And your proposal, which you are talking about, the direct election of members of the presidency -- okay, we accept, but we do not accept BiH as two civil entities, where one with the Serb civilian majority, the other with the Bosniak civilian majority. When we establish BiH of three entities ok, I will agree that it will be civil entities then and that members of the Presidency are elected in a direct manner, and so far we are ready to accept a direct way of electing members of the presidency provided that the Hrvat are given the same position as the representatives of the other two constituent peoples. And one of the modals is to form two electoral units in the Federation of BiH. We even had a proposal that would absolutely eliminate the Federation's Stigma division by some entity level. But now it's not, it's not an opportunity, and neither is the agenda point to further elaborate. Therefore, gentlemen, here I am speaking to you, representatives of the Srbin and representatives of the Bošnjak, we Hrvat are offering in the context of implementing the European Court of Justice's ruling in Strasbourg, the implementation of the ruling on the concept of institutional equality, without touching the internal structure of BiH, or its, so to speak, of the current division into two entities, at this point I say. And if I believe that the time has to come when BiH will settle in a symmetric way in a territorial sense in relation to its three constituent nations, but at this point, so we offer the concept of institutional equality. I ask you to accept it with respect as a gesture, so to speak, going out to meet the solution of possible BiH. Don't make us look for constitutional equality on the second concept at this point. Thank you very much. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12728	Mr. Chairman, it is clear from my discussion that I understand the importance of these four people in the Club of Constitutional Peoples in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For me, there is no dilemma, and I was right at the start saying that there are issues that must be reached full consensus and that should be decided by the majority of the votes in each of the clubs. These are questions of vital national interest. But with the amendment that you have proposed, you say practically that all the issues this Parliament is deciding on are issues of vital national interest, and they are not. No, and these issues can't have that decision-making regime. BiH is a multiethnic state that the Constitution therefore states, as it stands in the Constitution, three constituent nations, others and citizens of BiH, and should protect vital national interests. But the way you suggested it in the amendment is a complete blockade of BiH institutions and it is a complete change in the concept of BiH. Then that road, so in a full 65th division, BiH's resolution, it's only then ethnic BiH, there's nothing civil about it, which, of course, is impossible for BiH, and that's why I said so. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12729	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Bosić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12730	Thank you, Chairman. So, I understand absolutely why the two HDZs proposed these amendments, and this is the consequence of the Brussels obligation to propose a harmonised amendment by August 30th, we could not come to an agreement. We now have three practically separate amendments, one of these two HDZs and one SDS-SNSD that will probably come to the next session and one I think the SDA has submitted as its amendment. And that's logical, and it's good to talk about it, although it's amazing how much energy and time we've spent talking about this issue. This is not an essential issue for the lives of people in BiH, resolving this issue, Sejdić – Finc will not bring any change in the everyday lives of people, nor will Sejdić, nor will the Finc ever be elected as a member of the BiH presidency, and we know it. And now the question is why we've spent so much time and why we spend so much time on something that won't have any significant impact. Because the EU has conditioned that there are no further talks until we resolve this, and it is clear to all of us that this is the reason why it has given this issue so much weight. And now to answer the question of Mr Ljubić why our representatives are not, so here I am, on behalf of our representative in the Constitutional Commission, why she did not support the Commission's principle and whether it is in accordance with the Constitution. First of all, this amendment of yours as you have made it, and I respect it, and it is acceptable for me, and later I will explain why it is acceptable for me, taking away the right for the RS to elect its representative in the BiH presidency, and that is the transfer of competence, and that is the right that the RS, which it has received through the Dayton Agreement, to elect one member of the presidency, is defined as one Serbian member of the presidency, and now will probably be defined as one member of the Presidency. And we don't want to give up that right and we think it's not in accordance with the Constitution. But your amendments are acceptable to us in that section of the Federation. So there are only two principles that need to be respected in order to solve this problem. One, who together in Mostar told and signed the last time, that we would not, that no nation should choose his representatives and others to respect each other's interests and desires, not to impose our solutions on others. And with these two simple amendments, I'm sure by the end of this year, not amendments, in principle, we can reach a solution by the end of this year. Why is this such a heavy burden for BiH? Why do the International Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg’s rulings not have such weight in other countries? I've been listening to some debate over the court's ruling in Strasbourg, Great Britain, that human rights violations are the fact that in Great Britain prisoners have no right to vote. So, one non-small population was taken away from one of the basic human rights. And the Strasbourg Court ruled that it was not in accordance with human rights and Dejvid Kameron, the Prime Minister of England, publicly says – we will not respect that decision, we will not put it to parliament because this English parliament voted on the proposal a year ago and did not adopt it. And I wonder, and we all know the answer, whether the same pressure will be on the UK like 66 here pressure on BiH to adopt a decision that won't change anything in people's lives, I repeat again. And this decision in the UK concerns a lot of people's lives, and it changes the lives of many people. So, please, let's leave, let's remain tolerant in this debate. This is a constructive proposal, I understand your conditions, I think a major shift has been made forward lately. A symmetric or asymmetric solution is a false dilemma. All of BiH, its construction is an asymitrecino. Two entities are asymmetrical, in one you have cantons in the other you don't have, in one you have four levels of power, in the other you don't have. In one entity, members of the House of Peoples of the State Parliament are elected in another way. One directly elects the president of the entity in the other is chosen indirectly, now. And at the end of the eight, if I remember correctly, eight members of the presidency have been indirectly elected so far, starting with Paravac, through Genjc, through Ivo Mire Jović, through Mr Belkić and none of them had any other authority in that body. All of them were equal and performed their duties in accordance with the law. And that symmetry story, asymmetry serves as an alibi not to accept something that makes sense. So we do not think that we are imposing any solution to the agreement within the Federation on how to resolve the issue of Sejdić – Finc, we expect that RS will not impose any solution on the way this issue will be proposed. And to remind you that, fortunately in RS, there is a political consensus in how to resolve the issue. And the political consensus and way of resolving the issue is not in any way against the interests of anyone, is not jeopardising anyone's interests, neither the Hrvat nor the Bošnjak nor the rest, nor the Srbin in the Federation of BiH, nor the Bošnjak and Hrvat in the RS and others. So here is a matter of goodwill and a question, i.e. the main thing is to show whether BiH has the inner capacity to solve one of these political issues through an internal agreement and consensus, respecting each other's interests. If it turns out she doesn't have that inner capacity, it'll show she can't function, and the question is, what's her future like. That's why I think we should all stand up for this issue by the end of the year. I believe that Mr. Radončić's statement at a six-way meeting with Mr. File, where he has absolutely made it clear that he has nothing against any way to elect a member of the RS presidency, I believe that a move has been made towards coming to the final solution and I hope, above all, that partners in the Federation, Bosniak and Croatian politicians will be able to reach a consistent proposal. I believe that this is a path that will lead to a psychological moment that can be interpreted as a turning point in the current political situation, a long-standing crisis in BiH. If we solve this question that I repeat, has no real weight but has a symbolic, we could say, here we are able to make some important decisions by consensus.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12731	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12732	You see, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Bosiću, when it comes to BiH's future, it is unquestionable, BiH has been through a much harder, much harder time, and as far as this is concerned, so the matter is over. BiH will be if Bog gives forever and as far as I'm concerned, there is no dilemma. It is up to us within BiH to edit relations and improve the situation and I have actually stood up to respond to one of your thesis that you have set, which is that, well, it doesn't matter that we have another 67 asymmetrys, but we have asymmetry within the BiH system, that's what you've set as a thesis. It is true that the Dayton Constitution, which is part of the peace agreement, is to stop the war and establish peace-making solutions as it has brought and there is symmetry, or asymmetry, pardon. There's a lot of them, there's a lot of them out there, but that doesn't mean we're from Dayton, so we're supposed to be producing new asymmetrys here. I think we should produce symmetry and that shouldn't be an argument for new asymmetric solutions. Because there are some asymmetric solutions we need what's symmetrically now to convert into an asymmetric solution. I think it is something that is completely unacceptable and cannot be the objective of constitutional reform. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12733	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Bosić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12734	Well, I don't think we should make asymmetric or symmetric solutions. I think that we should make solutions that we can agree on and that can get enough hands here in Parliament and that will not be against anyone's interest. These symbolic settings to bring BiH down in the future are things that have no real background in them, so you can't explain it to anything. I urge you not to find an alibi why we can't agree, find a common language and deal and settle this issue. If you say so, it can only be as we say in the Federation and as the SDA says, so clearly there is no agreement. It can be as it suits everyone and it's not against anyone's interest, and I think we can come to that solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12735	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12736	Thank you very much. So I understand the need for two HDZs to have the problem of selecting legitimate Croatian representatives should bring them themselves, not to have someone choose on their behalf. I also understand the need to implement the Court's ruling in Strasbourg as soon as possible and that is why we have been doing this for too long. I only remind this Parliament that in the last term, we spent the last year agreeing on positions, and we also discussed this year's first term, even without success. What I can't accept is that the bridge agreement was an opportunity to achieve several significant things that have practically cleared all the misunderstandings and all the misunderstandings that have been since, I think, there have been BiH like this. And I am truly surprised that two, representatives of the Croatian people... I know, but this isn't polite at least, so we need to negotiate in places where and as planned, disaster. I am asking you to be the chairman of the session to spare us this way in the future, because when someone from my party needs me to say sooner or later, but during the session it really doesn't make any sense, especially considering which issue of crucial importance to you. What I'm trying to say is that the bridge agreement was the time for all this to be discussed in a very narrow set and see how much there is for this agreement. You knew well that there was no agreement, especially when it comes to the Presidency, that the explicit attitude of the RS said that a member of the Bureau would be elected in the elections, directly and in the position that in no way could any of the responsibilities of the Presidency be taken away, including the responsibility for adopting, proposing a budget, that it could not be taken away and transferred to the Council of Ministers, because the Council of Ministers is not a government and therefore RS representatives would never agree to it. So we have a task to implement the verdict, not to repair the Dayton Peace Agreement, although I understand the need to do it for the benefit of the Croatian people, but it is again the thing that primarily applies to representatives within the Federation of BiH and that is, it would be the first part to make the deal. Since you know for sure that there is no consensus and that no consensus can ever be reached, why would the RS give up any authority it has. I think it was unnecessary to listen now from each individual party representative, we have heard from the representatives of the SDA so far, I cannot say what the number of their views are when it comes to the change, the judgment of the court and their explicit views on what is to be done and what cannot be changed. These views are especially less important now, given that they do not represent the parliamentary majority and whether they consider this and it is no longer so significant, they sometimes forget it and still think that those who are the most affected by political developments in this country, but that is not luck, is not the case. Well, I suggest that all those who have submitted amendments to the BiH Constitution in terms of the implementation of the Strasbourg Court's ruling to withdraw them and to make arrangements at some party's rally again and see if an agreement can be reached at all. If attitudes are like this, and they've been like this for two years, then there's no way to implement the Court's verdict, and then that's the attitude. BiH is what it is, there is that attitude as it is, and I am sorry that indeed members, representatives of the Croatian people suffer because they allow Bošnjak to let them choose their member, but it is the defeat of the entire country. And I don't think it makes any sense that at the next session, we're dealing with some new amendments now that won't get passable either. The best thing this Parliament has, which is a voting mechanism that prevents national and party tightness, so it requires you to be good, to agree with everyone to ensure the passage of what you propose. Well, in that sense, I ask all those who have been behind this initiative to act in that sense and to make a proposal that would allow for the passing of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12738	Replica, chairman of Božo Ljubić's House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12739	So, I respect your views that you have made and your proposal in the end, so to speak, should be considered by all the proposings with due care, but I feel the need to answer a few questions, in fact, which you have asked in your presentation. 69 First, the history or evolution of these amendments submitted by four of these Members of Parliament, including myself, is older than the Mostar meeting. On the other hand, he does not, in any way, collude with the positions of the meeting in Mostar. However, understand one thing, I believe that you meant nothing by saying this when you said – why would RS give up something that has the right. So I respect that as a legitimate point of view, but why would the Hrvat give up their equality in BiH as a people and in one entity and in another entity and at the level of the state, after all that we have, I say, been through in this country for the last thousand years, not to say the last war in which several tens of thousands of people and all others died, precisely for national equality. I will repeat what I said, so paraphrasing the thought of Aristotel who said – I like Platon. I like Sejdić and Finc, but I prefer the Croatian people. But what we all need to understand here -- there is no solution for any people in BiH, for any entity in BiH until the Croatian issue is resolved, and of course I also think of both Serbian and Bosniak, but also for other citizens, because this is the reason we are dealing with it. So if we can access this thing that way, then we can come up with a solution, because there are solutions. This is it, it's just, you just have to have a good will and finally have the courage to make some moves go away. And in these negotiations that have at least half a year, we have been open to all the solutions, and also to the symmetric solution of which Bosić, although any solution, can be objected to. That's it, so of course I respect all your suggestions and will certainly be considered. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12740	Just that one comment I heard was about your exposure, but I heard it from Mr. Bosić – one of the conclusions at the bridge assembly was that no one should, that no one should choose a representative, I don't know, should not, should not, or, but basically, and a little later you said – sometimes it takes a little courage. I think it took courage for someone to say no one should choose a representative, the next thing I would ask – just to see what the mechanism is to make it happen. So that's the thing that had to be talked about and discussed at the bridge rally, it's absurd that we're talking about now. So, as an MP, I really don't think I should and should accept anything that hasn't already been agreed at that meeting, and there it's agreed that no one should be chosen by a representative. So that's the failure of the one that happened to you that is, you're still saying it's a material that's from who knows when, that was the reason to talk about it in Mostar. Set up a new Mostar and finish this story.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12741	Thank you. We agreed in Mostar the principle, we felt, I personally thought that this proposal was in line with that principle. Of course, I appreciate that someone else feels that it is not and in any case I hope that we will come to a solution in common. Dear Representative Milica Marković, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I will try to concentrate and focus directly on the Commission's opinion, which today is the priority in this agenda point here, where it is said that the proposed initiative of constitutional amendments has a constitutional basis, but the Commission, as we heard and as it writes, did not support the principles of these amendments. And there is, of course, a key issue, but before I say it, I would like to say that this very example of these amendments that are proposed to the Constitution and that we are considering the right example and the real pattern that cannot be reached in BiH a quality solution unless there is a broad consensus on this. Especially on such a big issue as amendments to the Constitution, because we don't do it every day and we don't do every session, it's done from time to time. And when we go back to this Commission opinion, so these principles, where the Commission said it didn't support principles, it implies one other thing that's equally important and important when we talk about this, about the proposal for these amendments, which is that this is exactly the kind of content, this kind of thing has to have three conditions fulfilled. So, the first condition that he has a constitutional basis, here's what's been said to have. The second basis is that it is supported by the Constitutional Commission and that there is a broad consensus. If there was a consensus in the Commission, there would probably be a greater consensus here between us MPs. And the third thing, so you have to know what it is, which is the number of votes, the hand that will raise that hand and vote it and means leading it to the end, or end it positively and in quality. Obviously, there are no conditions for that. It's just the first condition, the other two conditions don't exist and it's obvious, so today what one of the colleagues said, when it was a story about the Budget, all those who say they won't support this, you can't convince them to support it, and those who say they will, you can't convince them that they shouldn't do it the way they think. Now, this particular proposal is proof, so if you're doing this the way these amendments are proposed then we'll never get to reform the Constitution and we won't do it, never finish this job. On the other hand, all those who approach, whether they are party leaders, whether they are MPs' clubs, whoever approaches this business, so to change the Constitution, must before that story, before they engage in that debate to differentiate one thing. So it must differentiate one thing, and that is what we want, that is how we understand the European Court's ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc. Now, whether or not it is by chance, right now in December, it is exactly three years as that verdict was made and we are constantly on the wallpaper of both the Council of Europe and other international organisations why we don't do it. There is, in large part, this story that Bosić mentioned, where he mentioned Great Britain, and that is, of course, where Russia and other countries, which have not implemented the European Court's rulings for many years, and probably do not think to implement them, have their own arguments. But of course, there is also an obstacle position where someone will say – so we are neither big, nor BiH nor Great Britain, nor Russia, nor any other larger and strong European country that can resist and say, we will not do it for these and those reasons. We can't do that, we're not in that position, and if we're in favour, so if we're talking about respecting human rights, that we should allow everyone to feel comfortable and evenly in BiH then, then we should bear in mind that, first of all, three constituent nations and then everyone else, must find their measure in what is proposed. This proposal, which says that members of the presidency are elected indirectly in the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, is, however, not an absolute measure in which the Serbian people, or the RS, can find their own measure and say yes, is this proposal that we can support. It has been known for a long time that the RS position, that we said that we cannot support it and we will not accept that a member of the RS presidency is elected in an indirect manner. In doing so, the European Court of Justice's ruling did not say or choose either way, but it literally says -- BiH is obliged to allow national minorities to run and be elected in the elections. In our case it is the Presidency and 71 of course the House of Peoples in this variant. There's a different story in the House of Representatives, so there's a lot of people who want to run for office to see if it goes through or not. But these other two institutions, so BiH must make it possible for people and that's the story. Whether we want to implement it or we want to make a correction to the Dayton Peace Accords now, we want to re-evaluate the powers between the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, we want to completely change the dimension of some voting processes in BiH. If that's what you want in this story, then we'll never get to it. In that I say, and I will conclude, therefore, that it is not only this, the judgment of the European Court of Justice, in which BiH has shown itself in this way, means that it is not in a position to implement, which is a member of the Council of Europe, is a member of other European institutions, we still have the verdict of the European Court of Justice in the case of people who, not only the issue of human rights, but the issue and the rights of employment, where people who were until the 1990s, so live in the area of today's Federation, or BiH, and today live in the RS, they cannot today exercise their right to receive a pension where all their employment has passed – in Zenica, Sarajevo, in Tuzla, in some municipalities which... And there is a clear decision and judgment of the European Court of Justice where it says that the Federation is in debt, i.e. the Federal Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, is obliged to allow these people to receive pensions from that fund where they have exercised their labour rights and where the contributions went. This is not the case today, today they are paid by the PIO Fund in the RS and, of course, this goes to the burden of the RS, i.e. Budget and Government and many other issues. And when the RS PIO Fund asked for it to be implemented, then, of course, another solution was created, then the Federal Parliament ran to change the law and say, yes, we will allow pensions for those who lived in the Federation by the 1990s, but only on condition that they live and reside in the Federation today. Where are the human rights here? What does that mean? It's a wide story now, and I just mentioned it as a diet to say that this is not the only verdict of the European Court of Justice that we don't implement, there's that, and unfortunately, we're just picking ourselves up negative points in the international community, and we're also creating a negative even more negative image of BiH. So, my proposal is that, as my previous colleagues have said, I think it is most appropriate that both these and some other amendments are withdrawn until the situation is matured, i.e. we mature in this story that we can approach to say in a rational way – in the first phase we will implement the European Court's ruling, what is asked of us to remove that anthem from ourselves, and then after that we will open the story to see if there is, among other things, what you are proposing, is the question of the equality of Hrvat in BiH and perhaps some other issues. That's what you can talk about and talk about. But if we bring this into line with this, we're still gonna stay the way we are, which means a country that doesn't respect what it's supposed to respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12743	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12744	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Well, I have to say that it was very, very impressive to listen to all our predecessors and that it wasn't like it could be learned. I thank all those who invite us to ensure a broad consensus. It's known, to vote the amendments are required 2/3 and it's a very broad consensus, it's a good thing, it's democratic and it's good that the Constitution can't be changed with some small majority, who knows what it would be like then. But at the same time as they invite us to make a broad consensus, either it will be as we say or it won't be, and on both sides, Bosniak and Serb sides, and yet you invite us to a broad consensus, so just tell us what the magic wand is that produces this broad consensus when it's said in advance that there will be nothing but what you think. You also talk about how many solutions you like in these proposals, but by the way, don't miss that you're afraid that, God Bog, if any four people who enter the House of Peoples off the road will have the opportunity to say on behalf of their people that they like something or don't like it, that it will be BiH's ruin. So when someone else says that BiH, where there is no equality between all three of its people and all its citizens, is a question of how it can function, then you say a self-confident being, a being, it will function anyway, because we are the only guarantee that it will function. The fact that these others are dissatisfied is what's important. As if it were important that representatives or a whole of one people in BiH were prevented from expressing their legitimate rights, i.e. to manage public affairs in this country equally with colleagues from the other two nations. And we come to a fundamental problem – how do we really experience the concept of equality and the concept of legitimacy? Obviously, not all of us experience the same concept of equality. It's not equal for us that me and the others have the same rights. For us is equality only when I can... then we feel safe, then we're just equal, when I have all the instruments that are against the will of others to make decisions. And from there come many other solutions that are offered or that will be offered in an inability to come up with some normal solutions, a solution that truly ensures full equality. Why are there problematic solutions to the election of envoys to the House of Peoples? They are the same for all three nations, completely identical. What's the problem? So there's no one better or worse. They are good, even good because they also allow those who do not plead as members of the constituent peoples, here to enter an institution that represents the collectiveities of the peoples in BiH. But it's not good because we're the same. No one here can majorise, terrorize, outvote, or set such conditions, and call for consensus or be as I say or will not be, or if it is, then everyone will have that possibility, and they are equal and equal. I do not see what the problem is for the Bureau members to be elected through the Parliamentary Assembly in BiH, because we are again through these solutions in the same position, completely identical, all three peoples and every citizen of this country. What's the problem? But with this solution, no one has pre-guaranteed anything, or should in the election process ensure legitimacy in the House of Representatives, and then confirm it where the legitimate representatives of each of the three peoples sit. And what's the problem? If we hadn't just discussed the illogicality of the institution proposing the budget, as the most important act and so on, there's no here to explain its proposal but we say here you see there's this illogicality, so here we call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers to explain it to us. And... so far we've talked a hundred times in every debate... Now we suggest that we remove this illogicality, that what is normal, that the Council of Ministers propose a budget and defend it here before us. What's the problem? And it's not good either, it's like there's only an additional argument, why these amendments don't have a pass and why they can't go through, no matter how close they might be at this point to some kind of compromise solution. 73 A kolega of Bosić was well reminded, no matter how much we all run away from it or not, we in the procedure have three packages of amendments. We have this one that's first in line today, because it's first in the procedure, I'll call it the so-called Croatian package of amendments, so the next one will be the Serbian package of amendments, and the next one will be the Bosniak package of amendments. Interestingly, I remember that the College has made a call to all the proposings that, what you are now inviting us to do when these have come to order, to sit down and try to come up with a common solution. And we've seen that there's no desire to talk about it at all, because it's not their turn. So there is no desire to say what is declared sometimes, and it is like to say, it is recognised when it costs nothing, that truly Hrvat in BiH are not equal. However, when it is necessary to manifest through a statement of will that this state changes even if by a millimeter, then we come to the real state of things and we come to the real positions that who really thinks. And I'm closest to the one that we're all acting, or most of those who are in a position, in the way that the members of the Constitutional Commission acted, which is surprising to me, two of them didn't even vote for the constitutional basis, not because it's important, but to show that it can and can, and seven without having to say one word as it is today, and I respect what is said today, says why these principles are not acceptable, but simply revoted, demonstrated their ability, but at the same time unconsciously demonstrated our inability, our inability to resist it. And through that you have shown how even we really are, that way of voting that is completely peripheral. It is periferno whether this opinion of the Constitutional Commission will be accepted today, whether it will be returned, what fate the second, third package will have, is essential that we here do not obviously need to manifest a minimum of honesty when we present arguments for disputing, and against something, and to confirm something. And I'm going to get my story back again, when I told you today by discussing the Budget, how one can find himself in a difficult position, if he wants to be responsible. Today, even though we have objections to the BiH institutions' draft budget, we supported this proposal for one simple reason because it would be a stand-by arrangement for two entities, not for BiH institutions. We supported the assurance there that the system can function, regardless of what in any of these entities we ask ourselves nothing and what we cannot ensure the minimum protection of our interests in either of these two entities, but we have not acted in the way of the neighbor of the dead cow, let it live, let it try to ensure the functioning of the system and to reach a position to be responsible for each other and then when we may not be able to recognize the exclusive or any petty own interest. I can only invite you to reject this Opinion of the Commission and return these amendments to the Constitutional Commission, because the Constitutional Commission and the Opinions they delivered did not highlight any of the only reasons why their opinion is negative, so that even if they write in writing, not because of us, let them keep it in writing because of future generations let them see what BiH used to live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12745	Thank you. Business intervention, esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12746	... Which I haven't intervened before, but I'd like to say that here in accordance with point 107. [[no microphone turned on]] The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives should focus on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the principles of Amendments II and III to the Constitution of BiH. We're wasting unnecessary time, I just want to say that, so there's been a debate... I'll just go back to it with two sentences. I was abstained when it comes to constitutional ground for both Amendment II and Amendment III because of the way, therefore abstention not against and for Amendments II and III for the reason I believe that it leads to an unfair status of this proposal in relation to the Dayton Constitution of BiH in Amendment II in the manner of election of delegates for the House of Peoples of BiH. So, an unequal number of members of the constituent people from one entity compared to, say, Srbin 5, Bošnjak 6 in the Federation and Hrvat by 6 in the Federation and 2 Srbin from the Federation and 1 in Hrvat and Bošnjak and Herzegovina from the RS. That was why I was restrained on constitutional grounds, and in principle, against these principles I was, I believe that we cannot achieve everything by this solution, BiH will be in a position to discuss on a number of occasions until its full membership in the EU on the Constitution. I respect your suggestion. A similar relationship is also in the way members of the presidency are elected. We believe that it is necessary to maintain the right, in the Dayton Constitution, to be defined, to elect two members of the Presidency from the Federation, and 1 from the RS, without a national provision. You've made one of the proposals, he's certainly the subject of debate this time, but I think it would be correct when the debate is over if we vote for, or confirm these principles with a negative opinion of the Commission, then this amendment falls. If voted against these principles, he will then return to the competent commission in accordance with the recently amended Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. What I want to say only in the end, I think it would be necessary, and here, Mr. Chairman, I consider you to be responsible for these issues together with the other five leaders of the political parties, to come to a political agreement that would provide a sufficient number in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to support the implementation of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci ruling. This debate, though negative, is therefore an opinion on the principles of these amendments, has a purpose, in that sense, if it encourages us to come faster to a solution that we would need in order to meet our necessary obligations and allow the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. the possibility of applying for membership. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12747	Thank you. I alone am obliged to answer, so to your business intervention, as someone who is a member of the College, the chairman of the House and who is standing up to this session right now, I believe that all these discussions are actually in the spirit of the negative opinion given by the Constitutional Commission and I do not see that one comes out drastically out of this context if we take it into the essence of its concept. And as for the vote on the Constitutional Commission, of course everyone has the right to vote as he thinks they should. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Vice-President, Business.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12748	I thank the chairman. 75 I want to remind us all of the conclusions we made at the beginning of the session. I think it's now 5:00 and the deadline for the amendment is up. The main objective of today's session was to adopt the Budget in the way we agreed. Not a single item of the agenda is less important, and especially when we talk about the BiH Constitution, but you realize that what we are doing today is ineffective. We are discussing the negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission which we have the right to return to the Constitutional Legal Commission, that the next session we are reviewing the same, if negative or positive opinion comes, that afterwards we are considering amendments to the Constitution that came from the SDS and SNSD, that afterwards and if there are two negative reports we are considering amendments that have come from the SDA. At least five times we have the opportunity to say what we think about amendments to the BiH Constitution here. Is today a time and place for all this to be said today and to conclude that more about the amendments to Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci's verdict, whoever it is we don't need to talk about at all, because today we've said everything about it. Let's go back to the agenda in a way that we can do it today, and let's leave this behind these five, six, or seven times, when there's something else we can say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12749	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12750	Well, I have no other way of saying what I'm about to say than in this form of replication. So, and given what has been heard from a number of distinguished colleagues who have discussed this topic and what is now respected Vice-President Mr. Živković said, since we are awaiting this important job adoption of the Budget and so on, and given the fact that we are really now discussing the negative Opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Representatives, I suggest that if we are well-intentioned and if we want to be constructive to end this again, rejecting the negative Opinion of the Constitutional Commission once again return these amendments to the situation so that, as I say, we can talk with equal positions and seek a consensus and some common solution, and when it comes to this set of amendments that, someone said well, the Croatian set of amendments and what awaits us when it comes to us when it comes to the so-called so-called. The Serbian set of amendments to the same thing and that third set, the Bosniak set of amendments. Here's my suggestion, indeed, is that, so let's try to shorten these discussions and come, if, if possible, if there's a good intention and try to get into that kind of position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12751	Before I give the replica to the esteemed representative, drag Kalabić, I want to conclude that we do not have a quorum right now with this, there are only 17. _________(?) Sixteen. 16, and I would give a half-hour break in which the Finance and Budget Committee can hold a session and decide later on how to proceed. A half-hour break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12754	I will listen to your request, Mr. Chairman, and I will give up the whole essence and the replica and the debate, and since it is said in the break that Mr. Sejdić and the Finc are not Hrvat, so there is no need for, we have just figured it out, so we will continue the debate another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12755	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić gives up. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12756	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12757	He's giving up. I am concluding a debate on item 4 of the agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 35th session of the House of Representatives, held on 23.10.2012. At the 33rd session of the House, held on 06/09/2012, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The competent Financial and Budget History of the Law Proposal report delivered in 17.10.2012 with two amendments which, if adopted, become an integral part of the Law. 77 At the 35th session, held on 23.10.2012, the conclusion of Ante Domazet's representative, which reads – cijeniti would suggest that the statement on the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions be postponed until the House of Peoples declares the same law. The College of the People's House informed in 21.11.2012 that it had failed to agree that the bill was being considered in a second reading before it was considered and adopted in the House of Representatives. There's no discussion about this. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12765	Thank you, Chairman. One suggestion, not related to this point, to this point. So, I suggest, these are all important points, the work report – 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, so 15, so that these points are taken off the agenda today and left for the next session when there is time to discuss it slowly and to continue to finish the session, and to finish what you planned, because you announced another session, as far as I know, of this House. This way, I don't think it would be good to go through these points, and I suggest you leave it for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12766	I don't think we can take down the Rules of Procedure, but we can conclude that these points are being discussed at the next session except for the one that was scheduled after this. Here, I suggest, then, that I apologize, the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12767	... one addition, which is that for a point called the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, it is provided by the chairman of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Since he's not here today, we certainly wouldn't be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12768	So, respecting these two proposals, therefore from counterpart Džaferović and complemented by counterpart Dušanka Majkić, I propose that from point 11 the debate for the session, which will be held on 18th, should be postponed from the end of the 15th point, and that, of course, representatives of the competent institutions be asked to attend. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 30 votes in favour, without votes against and with two abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, this conclusion has been adopted. We're moving on to point 16, Ad. 16. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the 2011 report on BHRT's work and business, material of the BiH Radio-Television Management Board 80 The consent report you received. The college, acting as a committee, did not achieve agreement. And there's no discussion about this either. We're moving on to point 17, Ad. 17. Declaration on the initiative of MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović from the 35th session of the House of Representatives, held on 23.10.2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12773	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12774	So it was an accident. As far as I can see for the debate, distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12775	I'm sorry, but I'm going to be very brief and it's about this part of the agenda. Namely, we have a proposal for a decision on the discharge of Nermin Purić as a member of the Joint Commission for European Integration. On this point, I propose a conclusion that reads – The Joint Security Intelligence Commission is tasked with harmonising its work with the law. In fact, so far, the position of the chairman of this Commission has been carried out by counterpart Mirsad Đugum, and since the law has defined that the chairman of this Commission should be of the opposition I propose that we draw a conclusion on this matter which we will oblige the Commission to comply with its work with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12776	I would ask that the conclusion be delivered in writing even though I don't see any big connections between this, this is the matter of this conclusion, but it doesn't matter. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12777	Look, I mean, we as advocates have a right if we don't and we don't want to be in college committees, not to lead committees, but it's our duty to work in committees. So, no one or at least shouldn't, I mean it's not arranged, it's not prescribed, but we do our work through committees. I would ask Mr. Purić to tell the dom here why he resigns as a member of this commission, to see what he's in, we can't get our asses over that thing, I mean, because it's an important thing to me. Let's see if he wants to go to another commission or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12778	Thank you. 82 Before I give my colleague Mirsad Đugum a chance for a replica, I would like to say that I spoke to my colleague Purić from two positions, from the position of the chairman of the House and member of the College and from the position of my colleagues in the same club. And yes, respecting the fact that fellow Purić abstained from the explanation in that conversation. So, I respected it, and I don't want to force anyone now, but if my colleague Purić feels the need, of course, he can answer. Comrade Mirsad Đugum, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12779	I thank the chairman. I welcome everyone. I would only point out that in the Commission, the Secretary of the Commission has already been informed of this, that in our, or in the Commission which I am chaired, it has already been launched to replace it, with the fact that it is likely to go through the College in the way that the Commission and the other parts were elected, that the College should initiate this procedure and that the Commission has already been informed, or the Secretariat of the Commission. And also representatives from the OSCE where we had a meeting 20 days ago, where it was said that we had procedure for the opposition to be the chairman of this Commission and that it would go regardless of this request by Mr Mehmedović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-3.u12780	Thank you. No more reports. That's how I close the debate on the 19th point. That's how we exhausted the agenda debate. I'll give you 10 minutes before the vote. [[PAUZA]] I would ask distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs to take their seats and prepare for the vote. According to the records, there are 39 present and with enough entity majority. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we approach the voting procedure on the agenda of the 37th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We declare point 1. – The adoption of the minutes of the 36th session of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 32 votes, no votes against, no abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted a record. Prepare to vote on point 4. – Proposals for Amendments II and III to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the College of the House: 83 The debate is being postponed, a statement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is being postponed,... The debate will be held at a special session to discuss a set of other proposed amendments II and III to the BiH Constitution. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 33 votes in favour, one against and two abstentions, enough entity majority, this conclusion is adopted. Let's move on to a statement on point 5. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with a total of 15 for, 21 against, therefore, without a general majority, this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions in the second reading has not been adopted. We're moving on to point six. – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 37 votes for, 0 against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration was adopted in a second reading. Moving to point 7. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 36 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstention, we adopted a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act in the BiH institutions in the first reading. Moving to point 8. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 35 votes for, without votes against, without abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions in the first reading. Moving to point 9. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 84 prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with a total of 20 votes in favour of, 13 against, without abstentions, but without, or with 2/3 votes against, RS entities, this proposal has not been adopted. We're going to point 10. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with a total of 27 for, 11 against, with no abstentions, with 2/3 votes against the RS entity, this bill has not been adopted. Moving to point 16. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the 2011 report on the work and business of BHRT A year. We're voting in the second round on adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with a total of 23 votes for, 11 against, 3 abstentions, but with 2/3 against from the RS entity, this report has not been adopted. Moving to point 17. – A statement on the initiative of MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović from the 35th session of the House of Representatives, held in 23.10.2012. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions, with enough entity majority, this initiative has been adopted. Moving to point 18. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (proposed by the Joint College of both homes). We vote on adopting a conclusion with the proposed members – Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Petar Kunić and Božo Ljubić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 30 votes in favour of, 3 votes against, 5 abstentions, with enough entity majority, this proposal is a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission. Moving to point 19. – Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Nermin Purić as a member of the Joint Committee on European Integration. We're voting on making a decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 85 I conclude that, with 28 votes for, 1 against, and 9 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have reached a decision on the resolution of Mr Nermin Purić, a member of the Joint Committee on European Integration. And now we are voting on the conclusion proposed by the distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, who reads – The Joint Commission for the Control of the Intelligence Security Agency is tasked with harmonising its work with the law with an explanation, should it be read? [[Common discussion]]
