ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1080	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The session is attended by 13 envoys, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people, 4 from the Serbian people. A colleague, Krstan Simić, cannot attend today's session for justified reasons. And here, at the beginning of this session, we will have the addition of the fifth representative of the Croatian people in the House of Nations, and that is why there are 13 representatives, or envoys at today's session. Before considering the agenda of this session, I would like to inform you that Mr. Josip Merdžo, on 21st of this year, resigned from his post as an envoy at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as he was appointed as new advisor to the first deputy chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH. On 28.02, the Central Election Commission of BiH delivered to us the Decision on the termination of the mandate of envoy Josip Merdžo and assigned the mandate to Mr Martin Raguž, the next qualified candidate from the Croatian Democratic Community list 1990. I call on Mr. Martin Raguž to take an oath before the House of Peoples, after which he assumes all the rights and obligations of the envoys in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1083	I swear.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1084	that I will be conscious of my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1085	That I will consciously behave my duties, 2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1086	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1087	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1088	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1089	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1090	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1091	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1092	And now we're moving on to today's session agenda. For the 13th session, I suggest the next agenda, yet we wait one second for Mr. Raguž to receive congratulations and kisses. So D's n's n's d's. The adoption of the minutes of the 11th and 12th meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 3. Envoy Dragutin Rodić and Halid Genjac's request to discuss draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, following a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-5/12, of 19.01 this year; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the personal identity of BiH citizens (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Minsitare, Act No: 01,02-02-7-11, of 03.02/11; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-26/11, of 20.12.2011; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2/12, since 11/01 this year; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3/12 since 11/01; 3 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Receipts in BiH institutions (first reading), Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Act No: 01,02-02-1-27/11, since 29.12/11; 9. Report by the Committee of the College of the People's House on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of the Envoy Staša Košarac on the discussion of the State and Problems in the functioning of the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH, the material of the BiH Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-28-911/11, since 07/09/11; 10. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption; 11. Report on the work on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, with the aim of implementing the Constitutional Court Decision, issue: In 9/09/City Mostar, the material of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions, issue: 01.02-50-14-1089/11, since 19.01; 12. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Section at the 2010 EXPO World Exhibition in Shanghai, submitted by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions – Link: Act No: 01.02-16-11308/11, of 23.12.2011; 13. Decision on the participation of BiH police officers in the transformed mission UNMIK (Sudan), UNMISS (South Sudan) and UNISFA (Abyei), BiH Presidency material, issue 01.02-04-1-54/12, since 09.01.2012; 14. Agreement on the mutual protection of classified information between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro, link: Act No: 01,02-05-2-141/12, of 30.01 this year; 15. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 16. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Committee of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 17. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. I'm the one who's making the argument. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions to the agenda? If not, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on, in accordance with Article 60. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going straight to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 11th and 12th meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. The debate concerns both the minutes, and the 11th and 12th sessions. Reported colleagues, as far as I can tell. 4 We vote on the 11th session. Run the vote, please. Voting results: Attending 14 envoys – for 14, against no one, with abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 10 – all for, from RS 4 – all for. The general majority and entity majority are satisfied. The 11th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're launching voting procedure for the 12th session minutes. Attending 14 - for 14, against no one, abstentioned. From Federation 10 – all for, from RS 4 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. I also agree that we have adopted the minutes of the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the two agendas today, Ad. 2. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I would ask, indeed, that we would have at all the opportunity to work normally in this House and that parliamentary issues, or delegate issues, would have a purpose, for the Council of Ministers to do its job in a different way, more effectively and in a way that if we asked questions to get it. I actually want to urinate because I didn't get answers to four questions asked to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, to the 7th session of the House, and to one question asked to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, set at the 8th session of the House. If we're like this, under quotes, up-to-date, then it's pointless for us to do this job. So I would ask that, in good time and within a reasonable time, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the questions of delegates are provided in good time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1096	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. A colleague, Rodić, contacted the next one for discussion. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1097	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I also came forward for a similar reason, not because I can comment on the answer I received, but I can comment on the questions I asked last year, I didn't get a single answer. I will, given that a new Council of Ministers has been chosen, and I hope that there will be a new practice, to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure – a member, if I am not mistaken at paragraph 140(3), that we get it within 30 days, because if we continue this way, it will not make sense and what we have set at a certain point loses importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1098	Thank you, fellow Rodić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1099	Unlike my two colleagues, I received an answer and with the content of the answer I am, to say satisfied, although he cannot, because it is the Croatian side, to answer the question when will start to build the bridge Banja Luka – Tagged on Savi. It is evident that it is not in the Croatian budget for this year. I'm afraid, so it's certainly not going to happen soon, and as far as I know and the information I have is saying that before 2014, it's hardly going to happen. They're trying to do something, to get into the 2013 budget. So we really remain a land of absurdity, to build bridges on Svilaj, thank Bog it is, where there is no road, and we don't build bridges where we have highways. Unfortunately, that's not up, because I'm guessing it's not the minister, it's the general opportunity. It's me. I'm happy with the answer. So, as far as the pages are concerned, maybe the maltenes could start working in six months, the money was secured, but it wasn't working with the neighbor. And while I, the chairman, checked in – in working materials I got the realization of the conclusion of the House of Peoples from the Prosecutor's Office. I have to say, I'm surprised by the ignoring of the House of Peoples. I guess the rest of you got one, too. At our request to run an analysis of the work of foreign prosecutors, without any court of law, we get information in which the D.A. says roughly – don't ask us, we can't say that. We don't judge, we don't judge foreign prosecutors, it's done by a high representative. And if the College is unable to then I try to refer the question to the High Representative – he tells us what the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors are, if neither the High Judicial Council nor the Prosecutor's Office is able to do so. Looks like everyone's afraid of this. I'm asking you as a college to do something, to make this realization happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1100	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. Does this mean that the other colleagues, who have not applied for the debate, are satisfied? Excuse me, we also have a colleague, Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 6 And this time I express great dissatisfaction with why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not repeat its response to my repeated parliamentary question, which I was not satisfied with with with the response to the work of economic diplomacy in the period 2006-2010, or that it did not elaborate on all the activities that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had done in the field of economic diplomacy. So this is the time I resent and take this opportunity to repeat my question. The answer, which I received from the Ministry of Justice, was partly satisfied for a simple reason because they described only the current situation in BiH concerning the accommodation of minors and offenders, so their activities in the field of improving the Federation of BiH's Criminal Law, but a concrete answer to what they did and what, why many people who were given the verdict freely move on the streets of BiH, did not give us. I still want to repeat that question at this time. And I'm still taking the opportunity to say that I haven't received any of my parliamentary questions that I've asked during all these sessions, especially the BiH Veterinary Office, so I wonder if I'm asking the hard questions or those to whom I ask questions don't know the answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1102	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. There are no more reports. My question would be, so again – are the other colleagues, who have not applied, satisfied with the answers they have received? And also for commentary, here are colleagues Ivanić and his colleagues, Kapetanović, and also my colleagues Bećirović, I suggest that today very clearly, given that the Council of Ministers has just begun to work, all questions to which we have not received an answer, which are attached to the Council of Ministers and institutions appointed by the Council of Ministers, we ask in the shortest possible time that we get an answer and that, at the next session of the House of Nations under this agenda, we invite all representatives of the institutions from whom the answers are asked, regardless of what they give in writing, to be present, so that we can discuss these issues. As far as the prosecution, a colleague of Ivanić, the College discussed it a moment ago, because we were equally caught by the letter we received. And our position is to prepare a special point for the next House session, where we will invite the prosecution's representatives to be present, to report to us and to open a debate on the issue. Are we satisfied with this attitude regarding the questions raised so far? Okay, thank you very much. Any new envoy questions? I don't have any on the record, colleague Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1103	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I have two questions and one initiative. The first initiative, the aim of my initiative, is to strengthen awareness and increase accountability in the use of public funds. In 2010 the institutions of BiH, and there is no better situation in 2011, on behalf of current expenditures, compensation for staff costs, travel expenses, transport, fuel and current maintenance costs, etc., spent around 180 million marks. 7 The consumption of these funds is not well related to the performance of the tasks and tasks of the institutions in all these domains that I have just listed and I propose that the Council of Ministers immediately define rules for the purpose of using public funds at all levels of responsibility of the BiH institutions and to define the limits of this consumption and, of course, sanctions. I, in this response that I have received, even says that the Council of Ministers has adopted some measures of public consumption and fiscal discipline, but it seems not quite true. The issue, first question - in November 2011, the BiH Institutions' Office for Audit sent to the Competition Council of BiH and the Public Procurement Agency an indication of the indications during the 2010 audit by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, when they noticed the failures and shortcomings that call into question the compliance of the macrosoft procurement process with the legal regulations governing this area. And I demand that the competent authorities carry out a detailed assessment of the submitted, in order to determine the legality and justification of the procurement cases at the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The second question is also addressed to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Management Board and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In the Budget Act, the BiH institution for 2007 in Article 12, it was prescribed that investment, I quote -- investment of border crossings for 2007 could be made out of revenue based on the use of customs terminals achieved above the established income volumes. Investment priorities are the border crossings of Bosnia Gradiška, Gorica and Užlebić. The decision on the way and the level of investment shall be taken by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration. I ask the Management Board – What decision on the way and the level of investment has the Management Board made? And I ask the Directorate for indirect taxation and the Ministry of Finance – Did they use the funds for the border crossings mentioned in the Law, and it seems to me that no, 4.5 million were planned for Gradiška, and there is the same situation, and who, since they did not, to whom were these funds paid? And I'm looking in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1104	Okay. Thank you, colleague Bradarić. Since questions have been addressed very clearly and are sought in writing, we are moving on. Next question, fellow Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1105	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. My question will be addressed to the Council of Ministers. Economic stagnation has been evident for many years in BiH and indicators in the area of the external trade deficit, a high unemployment rate, a poor general standard of the population, suggest it is necessary to take urgent measures to stop it. I hope that in some future period we will also meet those basic assumptions of political stability and, of course, the legal stability that is necessary for us to adopt measures that will be important for the citizens of BiH. My question is: Is the new Council of Ministers preparing a new strategy for BiH's inclusion in European economic space based on the comparative advantages that BiH has and therefore to enable an increase in production, greater financial discipline, the preservation of existing jobs, that there is no further stagnation and, of course, what we have all here before this House in some 8 previous period have had through the external trade deficit reports and, of course, the stability of prices in these areas? I'm looking for this answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1106	The next question was answered by a colleague named Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1107	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A question for the Council of Ministers. It is quite certain that in the second half of 2013, in addition to all other crises, BiH will fall into a very serious debt crisis – Is it also intending that the Council of Ministers, together with entity governments, will form a whole programme of measures to mitigate the safe consequences of the crisis on its own? And I'd like a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1108	Thank you, colleague Vrdoljak. No more questions. That's how we exhausted this agenda point. Let's go to point three, Ad. 3. Envoy Dragutin Rodić and Halid Genjac's request to discuss draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, following a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-5/12 of 19.01.2012. You have received a request from the envoys Dragutin Rodić and Halid Genjac to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there's no record of a hearing. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the fact that the proposal for a law is being considered by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Let's start the voting procedure. Voting results: Of the 14 envoys present – for 14, against 0, abstentions 0. From Federation 10 – all for, from RS 4 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I am establishing a request for a review of the Bill's proposal to supplement the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH's government institutions following a hasty procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who's answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there aren't any interested. We're closing the debate. 9 Let us initiate the voting procedure on the Bill's proposal to supplement the law. Voting results: At present 14 – for 14, against and withheld 0. From Federation 10 – all for, from RS 4 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I find the Law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions was adopted by a hasty procedure. Thank you very much. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the personal identity of BiH citizens (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-7-11 of 03.02.2011.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1111	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1112	It's up to you, thank you very much. If you need to discuss it, then you'll get back to me. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone getting a word in on this? I don't see any complaints. I'm closing up, though, my colleague Bradarić. Here's a colleague of Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1113	... The law and I will vote for him. [[no microphone turned on]] In addition to winning, the I.D. gets an electronic memory chip, we know what it means, it's a second passport, it's a modern document, and it says there's not going to be a fee for citizens, I just hope there's not going to be a tax in the price of ID and maybe something else comes up. This is where the harassment of citizens, we call it harassment when we go to retrieve those documents, will be reduced so that they can get this ID through the mail. They're taking out their I.D. succesively, which means when the I.D. expires, you can take it out, but whoever wants to can do it sooner. And here, we've heard multiple times and the minister is going to save a few million marks for these reasons. So this is something that says here. However, I would like to say something else, I would ask, in fact, the creators of the Law and the legislators of the Law to respect those three, four postulates that exist in the future, which is that the documents work according to the standards of 10 Europe, that they do not derivate the Constitution, that this document does not derivate, that it ensures the equality of all peoples and all citizens, it seems to me in this case, and that it respects one reality that is in BiH. So, those who make it, use their brains, exploit the mind, exploit the intelligence that exists there, but only a little less imagination. Here so far, both in this Law and in other laws, there was a lot of imagination, and then it creates problems for us, so this Law has done no harm to anyone, nor will it harm anyone, after all, to disappoint him, because it is a very simple document, a standard document. And once again I say, I repeat, just a little bit more of these activities that I've listed, and a little bit of imagination and I say I'll accept this I.D. Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1114	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. There are no others reported for the hearing. Now all I can do is call a fellow minister, is there any need to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1115	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished delegates. Before this, I would really like to thank you for one thing, I would say, although a long-running debate on this law has been held, that we have come to a law that is extremely important for the citizens of BiH. This is not a formal matter and major changes are essential to the welfare of BiH citizens. Of course, the Law, I'm sorry that, I'll be glad that today the Law, or I believe, will be adopted in this House, too, but I have to express my regret that this long, long procedure has lasted. The law, for its reminders, was sent in August 2010, which means, here is the full year and six months this Law is in parliamentary procedure. The whole procedure, according to the Public Procurement Act, but also the difficulties and complexity of making new ID cards, is almost 18 to 20 months to end in one quality way. We have brought this into a very, very difficult position, and we should know it all here and here but also the citizens of BiH, which means – if we adopt this law today, it will probably be published by 15th, orientation this month. And that means by New Year's Eve, we've been running low for about 10 months. The law on public procurement, if the procedure with tenders are what they are, must last at least a year to a year and a half with the whole design of the identity card itself. We will go to the Council of Ministers with a recommendation, given that it is documents that are of particular security interest, that the Council of Ministers accepts the shortened procedure, on the one hand because of deadlines, and on the other hand, that you know that we have invested huge financial resources in the production of existing ID cards and it would be very unserious, irrational to change the whole technology now because of the new ID cards. This means, in ideal conditions, we will do everything possible to make a new ID card by the end of this year. For a simple reason, I point out that in 2013, around 480,000 BiH citizens already highlight their existing ID cards. If a number of citizens are added to this that are entitled to new ID cards, it is about 550 to 600,000. At current prices and if we were to get existing ID cards, it would cost more than 2 million marks. This implies, on the other hand, that if we were to enter 2014 to start issuing only new ID cards, then we would face a million and 800 people whose existing ID cards stand out. So, this is extremely important, and it is especially important for me to enter with a personal map that has biometric elements, it is the most crucial thing about this ID card, especially since Croatia is entering the EU already next year and I am deeply convinced, because we are already holding negotiations with Croatia that 11 of our ID cards will be new with biometric data, let me say, in use and that it can cross the border with Croatia, which is extremely important for BiH citizens. So, thanks to all of you for the understanding and, of course, the general public who, with all due attention, was interested in this document and regardless of all our different views, opinions, observations we had, I think we basically got a good document that is in agreement with the European directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1116	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we've closed the debate, now we've got a debate. A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1117	I thank the chairman. You know, I appreciate that the debate is a defacto closed, but after the minister's presentation, I think it would be useful for us here, but also for the public to explain two or three things. Yesterday on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I delivered an opinion that it would be good to see the design of that ID card as it looks. There was a belief that it was very difficult, that it was impossible or difficult, because there are a lot of new elements in the ID card. However, from this presentation of the Minister, I find it at least interesting and it seems to me that further clarification is needed, this thesis, or claim – that a lot of what is in the existing ID card is resolved and why a lot of funds can be kept. So solutions are probably meant for technology, I don't know either, so what's invested in an existing ID card solution will either try to stay or can be kept. I would ask the Minister to explain to us about this tender procedure, what the tender will require, what will be kept from what is invested in the personal map of the existing and what has already been paid and whether keeping some solutions from the existing solution in this technological process, does this also mean shortening perhaps the tendering process and whether it ensures that we get a solution by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1118	Thank you, Genjac. A kolegica of the Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wasn't going to discuss it, but I'd like to ask Mr. Nović about it. Article 6 of the amendment states that the following data will be collected from a citizen who submits an application for the issue of a ID card, taxing itself. The 7th is said to be looking for a unique home number. I now want to make your claim, therefore, that it is a very practical document, which we are not quite sure about or visually what it will look like, and I think it has created some dilemmas with colleagues in the House of Representatives, so a lot of new data will be, as Mr. Genjac said, in the design of a new ID card, I don't think it was very complicated that, for us, the model in which it will be, here is said that the title on the ID card is written in Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, French and English. It seems pretty confusing, complex, and even narrowly, and I don't think it was a particular problem that you showed us today a visual model of what this ID card should look like, because I think you should have a vision of the final 12 documents and don't yourself say it's complicated, or to simplify, to remove certain dilemmas that we have here. But what bothers me is the fact that your ministry is not conscious of the fact, when you mention Croatia I would not ask you if you did not mention Croatia, and you should know that Croatia as a country that will become a member of the EU next year, long ago in 2008 passed the Personal Identification Act, there is no longer a single home number, and it has done so according to the standards and strict EU requirements that will stand before the BiH state. It is a very expensive process that will make it difficult for BiH to communicate with other countries. And what concerns me, and what I have shown in the course of the debate on the Single Parent Count Act, is our ministry's unpreparedness to address new challenges that we must face and EU requirements. So we come to the absurdity that we have discussed the Law on Amendments to the Law on Single Parent Count, which is why it is not used at all in EU countries, because it is impossible to traffic with data containing more than 11 numbers, and the unique parent number has that. And now it repeats itself, so that our unpreparedness, so we will continue to deal with a unique home number, which means that the BiH state will cost a very expensive price when in a few years it has to enter a personal identification number, so all of what you are proposing here today in Article 6 will have to be changed. Today you mentioned how expensive this process is, how much money it costs. What concerns me very much is the fact that the method will have to be repeated, that it will again have ties with the citizens of BiH, finally with the state of BiH, because the Law on the personal identification number that a colleague from the Croatian Parliament is very ready, well, quality done by the Croatian government, is a very expensive law, only for the state of Croatia, it took the Republic of Croatia five years to fully implement it, so I wonder where BiH, with an unprepared administration, will find its way to knock on the door of the EU when we are so unprepared to jump quickly and make laws for which the proposed solutions can be offered in fact by colleagues from the Republic of Croatia. So, under the 7th, you'll be looking for a unique home number, that's what you have now, I totally understand, but what I'm worried about, is that when your ministry finally decides to access a personal identification number bill, and you should have done it a long time ago, I'm very sorry that the rapporteur from your ministry on my request – until your ministry comes to the making of the Personal Identification Number Act, the man is with desire, the gentleman with regrets from the pay phone said he didn't know anything about it. I'm very sad and worried about it, so the money that will be re-separated to the changes to this same ID card when the Personal Identification Number Act comes into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1120	Is there another debate? If not, here I will ask Mr. Secretary one more time to take a brief look at the two questions asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1121	I would probably be happy if relations within BiH were as we all or many would like, especially when it comes to administration. Secondly, it should be kept in mind and jurisdiction that has what level of government in BiH. And if I just tell you that the Law on Parent Books in the Federation hasn't been adopted yet, and it takes almost three or four years, and that today a citizen should go from one place to the next 13 to get a birth certificate or citizenship, so on and so forth, it's even sadder and even more difficult situation than sometimes seems to us. Of course, it is up to us, and I am accepting all of what you have said, not at all challenging that these are the needs of the citizens of BiH and that what is the jurisdiction of this ministry, that together with the ethnic, cantonal and other authorities, we will do everything we can to adopt or propose laws that are possible today in BiH. But the second question when you said that we should see the design of the ID card, it's being asked, you know that the I.D.A. doesn't make the design. We don't do IDs, that's what the manufacturer does. So, the foreign producer all personal documents. We're just personalizing personal documents. On the basis of this Law, someone will offer us a design complete with all the elements provided for in this Law, as was the case in the Law on Travel Documents, where the existing travel document is also offered as it is today. So, despite our best wishes, of course, we could have given it up when the law started in the process so that we could tell who would make it for us, but you know that it is subject to tenders and subject to the elements that we have so far, here we don't know whether this law is going to be adopted like this or whether it's going to say something else needs to be changed. We don't want a blood group that's also been discussed, we don't want an electronic signature, and so on, and so on, and all of these are elements that someone has to have to offer to make it look like it. Any improvisation of me personally would not have satisfied that it was done within our ministry, because it would have been unserious, we are not for it, not only competent but also qualified. When it comes to technology, of course we care very much about all the technology we have available since 2002. The year, which is in BiH, not to say imported, but which is working on the basis that is being done today to a significant extent of travel documents. We have to preserve all that technology to the extent that it's not outdated or contrary to what we want today. So that's why we're going to ask the manufacturer, the supplier, to offer us to subsume this and add a new part of the technology that we need. It's one procedure, I think we all, I'd say we understand quite well. If I tell you, let me just tell you what it would look like if by the New Year's, or January 01st, the citizens of BiH get new ID cards. If the law is adopted today and the Council of Ministers is announced and allows for a shortened procedure, due to the conditions I have made, it would mean that in March of the month a contract is signed with the delivery of forms of ID cards. Then from 15th, let's say March or until August 15th, it's about developing document designs. 105 working days all suppliers, that's the minimum when they ask for the design of a new ID card. Then, there is an upgrade within the same time limit and testing of existing equipment for personalisation, procurement and testing of new equipment that will personalise its polycarbonate, as it is said professionally. At the same time, there is work on regulations and sublegislative acts that require that it be adopted in accordance with this existing law. Then from, at the same time until the end of August, the development and testing of software solutions would take place, and then from August to December would be a test of zero series of documents, delivery deadline, delivery of documents, development, testing and release of the system into operation. Therefore, at the same time as August to October, we would conduct an education of the perpetrators and then in 01.01.2013, the personalisation and delivery to the locations of the competent authorities of new forms of ID cards would be personalised and delivered. This is the floor, I say, the most ideal conditions to end this. The procedure is really long and believe that this is not a safe whim of my ministry, especially for those of us who work there, I wish this law had been passed at the end of 2010 or early in 2011 and that we have at our disposal, I would say, more than a year and a few days. It is not easy to suffer under these deadlines and 14 to expect that BiH citizens will have ID cards or we will be in a position to say – wait, we do not currently, so we lie to a few citizens and we say deadlines for getting a new ID card are instead of 15 days and so on, etc. Here, thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1122	Thank you, Mr. Minister. A second hearing was re-arranged by counterpart Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1123	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for giving me such a detailed explanation of today's bill of law. It is good that I asked you this and that I opened this debate because I heard something that I longed to hear, which is that, among other things, you, like me and my colleagues, are concerned by the fact and the problem of shared competences in the BiH state between the state level and entity levels and cantonal levels. It doesn't matter what you are right now, my question and your answer are not related to each other, because the book code is not at all about the question and what I asked you, nor is it an adequate answer, because the Single Parent Number Act will not be passed at entity levels but at the level of the state, which is your Ministry's responsibility. So, I repeat to you and tell you that what I came forward for today for discussion, and which is why I don't think we've done it right and we haven't done it right, is the fact that in a few years, when your Ministry and Council of Ministers finally show their willingness to follow European trends and make the basic identification number bill, which you and I both know has to, that the citizens of this country are going to have to spend a few million more marks because we're going to have to change the ID card again, so for a simple reason, because the Single Parent Number Act is going to change, so this data, which is being entered on a single birth number, will not be adequate but will have to enter a personal identification number. So what worries me is the fact that the state is going to spend a few million marks again just because we in our administration, and since entity governments have absolutely nothing to do but the state level, we are not ready to follow the trends of European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1124	Thank you very much, colleague Kapetanović. The minister won't be able to help us much. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague of the Košarac. Replica, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1125	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not inclined to open a topic today regarding the technical issues of the realisation of this law. I think that political will should be manifested here whether we want to pass the Law on the ID card on the basis of a months-long debate, primarily in the Ministry of Civil Affairs and later in the 15 parliamentary assembly of BiH. Do we want a ID card as specified by the amendments, above all in the report of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples, that is, the way it was adopted in the House of Representatives. Today I have a feeling, and let me share that feeling with you, that we are trying to manifest all possible knowledge and ignorance in front of present ministers, and that this is not always the rule when other ministers are present in this room. Respecting all aspects, all knowledge and all, I would say, the dimensions of certain issues... here should focus exclusively on whether there is a political will for the citizens of BiH to get a ID card as it is in neighbouring countries and the way it is good for all BiH citizens. Whether we do it today or not. The Serbian delegates' club in the House of Peoples of BiH will vote for such a law and for these amendments to the Constitutional Commission. And let us be rational, and to put all technical or other questions to the ministry that certainly led this process in the most appropriate way, well-intentioned for the sake of the interests of BiH citizens and in general BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1126	Thank you, Mr. Košarac. A colleague, Krišto, called to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1127	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, co-chaired by both colleagues and fellow envoys, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers and all present at this session, I welcome you all. Here, of course, when the debate is open, especially in this way where, I say three times, we put the minister in office to clarify some of the provisions, especially some of the things that we have discussed on our respective committees, so I will say only briefly under this point that on behalf of the Constitutional Commission I am empowered by both the chairman and all the members of the committee responsible that on behalf of the chairman, because he is disproved for justified reasons, I am saying here both the opinion and attitude. Well, in this sense, I will say that, as far as the Law on the ID card is concerned, what has been said has been in the procedure for a long time and that a thorough debate on such a single law has really been held and that such a thorough debate and amendments that have been adopted in one House and that this procedure, to say delays, what has been respected by the minister, is really not to say to the House of Peoples. But I'm glad to have a law like this today whose reasons and explanations for individual solutions are really well done. Yesterday I found on our constitutional committee that the amendments were even too wide-ranging. However, while respecting the fact that we really have a Law that reflects, I would say, the spirit of BiH and that it is in line with European directives and guidelines, this time I would like to say that we will support such a law in front of the Croatian People's Club and I would like to go to the procedure of implementing this Law as soon as possible, in accordance with both proposals and explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1128	Thank you, colleague Krišto. There are no more reports, and this concludes the debate on this agenda point. 16 We open procedure or we initiate voting procedure on the bill's proposal. Voting results: At present 14 – for 14, no one against, no one abstained. Federation of BiH – all for, RS – all for. The general and entity majority exist. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the personal identity of BiH citizens has been passed. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Moving to the next item of the agenda, point five, Ad.5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-26/11 of 20.12.2011 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the bill in the proposed text. The House of Representatives is at 20. The session, held on 02.02., adopted the Law on the Completion of the Law on Violations. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1130	Thank you, Chairman. I am Milana Popadić, assistant minister at the BiH Ministry of Justice. First, I would like to note that in 2004, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly passed the Payments Act on a single account and distributed revenue. This is a special account which, in accordance with this Act, all revenue is paid, both indirect taxes and other revenues. In Article 1 of this Act, too, the definition of indirect taxes and other income is also given. However, in 2007, when the Law on Infringements of BiH was passed, this fact and a single account on the distribution of revenue of the Directorate for Direct Taxation were not taken into account. And that's why the indirect tax administration has been having big problems all these years. And the initiative for this supplement came from the Department of Direct Taxation. It is said in this Law in Article 3 that all revenue for which the Administration is responsible are paid into a single account. Under the current Violations Act, we have deposits on BiH's budget when violations are made out of BiH's jurisdiction, we have deposits in entity, cantonal or lower levels depending on the breach of the level. And since we haven't been resolved in accordance with this Single Account Payments Act, there was a problem with the payment of other management revenues and this solution has just been proposed. I'll point out that there was one amendment to this amendment to the law. The amendment only decedified the existing article 44, which has only one position and proposed yesterday on the Constitutional Legal Commission, the amendment was withdrawn, so the Constitutional Legal Commission gave a positive opinion on the addition of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1131	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Any word from anyone? If there's no interest, as far as I can tell, I'm closing the debate. 17 We are initiating voting procedure. 14 present, the mistake is that Mr. Raguž came out but we're leading, here we go—for 13, there's no one against, that's the one abstention. From the Federation – 9 for, from RS – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. The law supplementing the Law of Infractions has been passed. Thank you very much. We're going to the six today's agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2/12 of 11/01/2012 This is the first reading of the bill. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives is on 23rd. The session, held in 1602, adopted the Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions. I give my word to the lawmaker if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1139	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1140	Excuse me, due to technical errors in the activation of the voting process in the first round or second round, the procedure for the first round is involved. This is the second round of voting, so I'm going to ask you to repeat the procedure. So I'm restarting the voting procedure. Please vote. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 6, versus 5, abstentions 2. From the Federation of BiH – for 2, versus 5, abstention 2, from RS – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I find the conclusions of Staša Košarac's envoy on the discussion of the status and problems in the functioning of the BiH Chamber of Commerce have been adopted. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption In accordance with Article 17 of the Treaty on the The law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption The Agency's Committee for the Election and Monitoring of Labour has 9 members – 3 representatives from the BiH Parliamentary House, 3 representatives from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, 2 representatives from the academic community and 1 representative from the NGO sector. Since Mr. Ilija Filipović and Mrs. Dušanka Majkić are no longer members of the House of Peoples, the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption on which we are due today. I'm opening a debate on this question. Is anyone answering for a word? Unless there's a final hearing. We're voting on a motion for a decision. Thank you very much. Attending 13 - for 13, against no one, abstentioned none. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, from RS – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption, and that we appointed colleague Borjana Krišto and colleague Staš Košarac as new members of the Committee. Moving to the next agenda point, point 11, 21 Ad. 11. Report on the work on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law with a view to implementing the BiH Constitutional Court Decision No. In 9/09/City Mostar (the Interresor Working Group material for preparing amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities, issue: 01,02-50-14-1089/11 of 19.01.2012)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1143	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1144	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, no one's answering, no one's interested. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We are voting, or we are initiating the voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14 - for 14, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH 10 – all for, from RS 4 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I take note of the report on the work on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law with the aim of implementing the BiH Constitutional Court Decision No. The 9/09/ Town Mostar was adopted. Moving to the next item of the agenda, item 12, 22 Ad. 12. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Section at the 2010 EXPO-2010 World Exhibition in Shanghai, submitted by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions – Link: Act No 01.02-16-11308/11 of 23.12.2011 You have received the Report of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The commission unanimously adopted the following conclusions, and proposed to the House and their adoption. First – The House of People orders the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the final report on BiH's work and presentation at the 2008-2010 international exhibition EXPO-2010 and on the activities undertaken by the House of People's Report within 90 days of the date of receipt of this conclusion. Another conclusion – The House of People requires the BiH Council of Ministers to adhere to the General Recommendations of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions contained in this Report when organising similar events. I'll give the word to the reporting officer if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1147	...just one report that really needs to be read and seen that this, 3.5 million marks spent, documentation in Chinese, no idea why the money went away. The board of directors is run by a man who is the secretary general and at the same time himself and his own control and manager. This is what if someone were in the movies saying they were exaggerating the screenwriter, let alone in a serious institution that happened here, and as I can see, it doesn't seem like anyone's really interested in what's really going on here. If one of the other political figures had been more serious in this place, it would have been guided long ago by some of the institutions that I've been visiting, and here, and I don't wish anyone else, but it's terrible that these things happen without anyone living reacting or having any political responsibility. The people of 3.5 million are spent, you read it. ...the revision has no idea what it's for, it's got a file that's in Chinese, nobody's going to get in alive, there's nothing. A dramaticly negative thing in which, if and just so everything goes by, then they're right, I suggest that this manager be re-elected and taken back somewhere down to Africa where he's going to speak some of the local languages and bring back documentation in such a way and nothing at all. If all this goes through like this, the man is right, I take off his hat, congratulate him and say, "Dear sir, if he's a man, you are Bog." The smartest in 23 of this whole building, in an institution, and all of us sitting here, you're pulling your nose. And you're right and you have to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1148	Thank you, fellow Ivanic. A colleague of the Kapetanović's also called. Here you go, fellow Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1149	Chairman, I already made a statement to the media a few days ago and commented because we think people don't know, that the media doesn't know. They know, and the BiH public knows that several people are likely to have spent millions of marks in a frenzy. And I just can't figure out that the report that was written, well, as they could, how the chief auditor could have written that report at all, in the claim that based on the books made in the Master's book of vaults, it can't determine what is covered by the amounts shown, or on what the recorded costs are spent on. So I think it's incredibly horrible, amazing, that the details are written in Chinese, that it doesn't tang anyone in the BiH state. I think that we need to find a Chinese translator to translate exactly, that we know exactly, and even those costs when so many millions of marks are given we can give money and to translate that we know why these money was spent, so maybe my claim and Mr Ivanić's claim that it's crazy money may not even be true, maybe they'll justify all these costs, but I think that in such a difficult financial situation as it is in BiH at the very least, if, after translation from the Chinese language into our language, I think this is just a crime and that someone should criminally answer for something like this. It's not an artist, it's something bordering the crime. I'm shocked, I just can't understand that in my country these things happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1150	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. A colleague, Rodić, also applied for the word. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1151	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I just want to take a brief look at this report, not just because of the data that we have in the report and the amount of funds that have been spent, but because of some future activities that we're going to lead to whether everything we're doing has a certain effect. If we have established, and here I will tell you when we had this report and on the Commission for Finance and Budget and exactly what Mr Ivanic said about the contents of the report and we who are, here to say here for the first time we meet with some of these institutions, then we come up with the following data. The WHO World Exhibition is a event that is held with the aim of bringing closer and better understanding among the world's peoples. Exhibitions are held every five years in different countries and BiH has so far had three performances – '98. in Lisbon, 2000 in Hanover, 2005 in Aica(?) and BiH's stand opened at an exhibition in Shanghai in 2010 from May to the end of October. When you look at what the goal is – approaching, exchanging, what are the ultimate effects, how much money has been spent, we should now probably be with Chinese best friends and get the incentive to solve many of our problems. 24 I believe that everything that is here in this report and what the audit has done and what could not be determined in the end about all of this, raises doubt that this money has been spent and it is obvious that this project has exceeded all expectations and that I do not consider that it has fulfilled that basic task. What is very important is that we need, here through these reports and what the Finance and Budget Commission has done in the coming period, to take account of and give exactly the same tasks and recommendations that are in our jurisdiction and to prevent these phenomena, and on the other hand to bring about some representation of BiH aimed at what is our main problem in solving the accumulated economic problems in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1152	Thank you, fellow Rodić. Since there are no more reports, and we have thoroughly discussed this in our commission's time, and that is why we have proposed these conclusions regarding this report, then I am concluding the debate. First we vote on the report itself, then we will vote on the conclusions. And here we go, starting voting procedure for the report. At 14, do we have a mistake here, colleague Bradarić? It's all right. At present 14 – for 13, against 0, abstention 1. From the Federation – 9 for, 1 abstention, from RS 4 to 4 for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I agree with the 2010 Financial Review Report on the BiH Section at the 2010 EXPO World Exhibition in Shanghai. We are now initiating voting procedure on the Commission's conclusions. At present 14 – for 14, versus 0 abstentions. Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 4 – all for. There's both a general and an entity majority. I conclude the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Budgets of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Thank you very much. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Decision on the participation of police officers from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the transformed mission UNMIK (Sudan), UNMISS (South Sudan) and UNISFA (Abyei), material of the BiH Presidency No: 01,02-04-1-54/12, since 09.01.2012 You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH. The Joint Committee adopted the Decision and referred it to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for approval. The House of Representatives at the 23rd session, held on 1602 this year, confirmed the decision. The joint commission appointed a colleague to Borjana Krišto as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. I'm giving the word to the proposer. Is there a need? 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1154	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1155	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there's no one interested in the debate. We're closing the debate. We are voting on a confirmation of the decision on the participation of BiH police officers in the transformed mission as already listed. We're initiating voting procedure. Please vote. Attending 14 - for 14, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH 10 – all for, from RS 4 – all for. There's both a general and an entity majority. We agree that we have confirmed the decision on the participation of BiH police officers in transformed missions, as we have cited them. Thank you very much. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Agreement on mutual protection of classified information between the BiH Council of Ministers and the government of Montenegro You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. I give my word to the chairman of the Committee, my colleague Bećirović, if there is any need?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1157	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-29-0.u1158	Thank you. Maybe everything else hasn't been recorded and written down now, thank you, fellow Bećirović. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there's no one interested in the debate. We're closing the debate. We are voting on granting consent to ratifying this Agreement. Let's run the voting procedure. Voting results: At present 14 – for 14, against and withheld 0. From the Federation of BiH 10 – all for, from RS 4 – all for. There's both a general and an entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the Agreement on the mutual protection of classified information between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro. Thank you very much. 26 We move to the point of today’s 15th agenda, Ad. 15. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Since Mr. Josip Merdžo was a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the House of Nations and it is necessary to appoint a new member, the proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been drawn up today, which we need to make known. We're opening a debate on this proposal. Thank you very much. There's no one here. We're closing the debate. We're initiating voting procedure. Attending 14 – for 14, there are none against and abstentions. From Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 4 – all for. There's both a general and an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Decision amending the Decision appointing members of the permanent committees of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Sculpture of BiH and that we appointed a colleague of Martin Raguž as a new member of the Committee. We're going to point 16, Ad. 16. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
