ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1437	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I warmly welcome you once again. There are 13 envoys present, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serbian people. Col. Mladen Ivanić and his colleague Martin Raguž are justly absent. For the 17th session, we propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the 16th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 (second reading) delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Do we have any objections on the agenda? Is anyone answering for a word? I see it's nobody. Thank you very much. Since there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on, in accordance with Article 60. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. We're going straight to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH You've got the record. We're opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I can't see the interest. There's no record. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. 2 We vote on the 16th session. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 — for 13. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 4 – all for. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I am establishing a record of the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1440	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairing, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished media representatives and guests. My question to the Council of Ministers is – When will the Council of Ministers of BiH re-establish the domestic CRPS, or the Commission for Property Requests of Displaced Persons and Refugees? An Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement established a Commission on the property requirements of displaced persons and refugees. It was an incomparable authority for the return of property and housing rights to displaced and refugees and all persons illegally seized during the war in BiH. The commission did not work under BiH regulations and laws, but based on its own rules. The CRPS decisions could not be reconsidered by any BiH institution, only the CRPC could review its own decision after objecting to the party, or by official duty. This body had an international character, and its members had immunity. The term of office was limited by time and over 300,000 requirements were resolved during that period, with more than 95% of the assets taken away or possessed. The subjects and objections which were resolved before the CRPC were never subject to the work of the state authorities, but were resolved in the spirit of Annex VII. The domestic CRPC does not formally exist since 1 January 2009. After the end of his work, responsibility passes to the BiH government, under Article 16. Annex VII. The problem in this regard is about 700 files in which a decision has been made to object. The non-extending of the agreement, and the systemic non-resolving of the problem, leads in the final consensus to human rights violations, which includes the right to a time-sensitive time-limit for resolving the requirements, the right to an effective legal remedy. The BiH court has been asking the BiH Council of Ministers for a longer period of time to decide on a legal successor to the CRPC, because the legal follower is actually the accused party in the administrative dispute. For these very reasons, we are going back to Annex VII and Article 16, which determines that responsibility passes to the government of BiH after the end of the work of the CRPC. The responsibility of domestic authorities respected to a large extent by the adoption of the Act on the takeover of pending cases of CRPC in entities, the problem was and remained in the files, where the decision was made, the legal objection was not resolved and there is no one who has the objection to resolve. Although the number of these files is relatively small, around 700, it has introduced the institutions and BiH into a problem from which no exit is seen yet. 3 In line with the above, I would like an urgent written response from the Council of Ministers to the question raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1441	Thank you to my colleague, Kapetanović. A colleague, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues. I, in fact, want to intervene and ask the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for the third time to get an answer to the parliamentary question, i.e. the delegate issue, asked at the 8th session of the House. I would ask, I spoke last time, it is pointless to delay the answer to the asked delegates' questions for such a long period, and it seems to me that in a certain way, at least when I'm concerned myself, it also makes it impossible for delegates to work in the House of Peoples. So, I am asking to get an answer to the question I asked at the 8th session, related to joint energy building and hydroaccumulation in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1443	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. Given that there are no further requests for discussion, does there be any need for representatives to respond to the executive authorities today? Not that I understand. Since it was not highlighted whether the form was written today or, I assume you insist on a written answer to all the questions, and here is what counterpart Bećirović said, I will ask that by the next session, the 18th session of the House of Peoples provide answers to all the questions asked so far by fellow envoys. That concludes the two, today's agenda. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 (second reading) delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH As this is a second reading, there is a debate on amendments and a vote on the bill's proposal. You have received the Report of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission has accepted the bill and is proposing to the House its adoption. At the 28th session, held on 24th, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2012 with 14 amendments incorporated into the text of the Bill's Proposal. In accordance with Article 4 112(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, fellow envoys – Sulejman Tihić, co-worker Nermina Kapetanović and counterpart Halid Genjac, submitted 8 new amendments to the House of Peoples, i.e. amendments. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if there is any need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1447	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow envoys, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Deputys and Ministers, distinguished guests, our associates, respected media, I welcome you all and here I want this session to be fruitful for BiH, because we have one very important item on the agenda, which is the adoption of the BiH Budget. Here, I have briefly called to say that, when it comes to the budget of the BiH institutions, the only thing that is not problematic in this law is the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, because it is, in fact, the legal basis that results from the obligation to adopt the BiH Budget every year. In view of the fact that we have already been long, to say, we haven't had a budget for either the previous year or so, which in some ways reflects everything together on overall relations, and political opportunities, and on the economic situation, both in BiH and other relations, when it comes to BiH and its European and Euro-Talna road. As far as the structure of the budget is concerned, I cannot be satisfied with it, and this time I express my dissatisfaction, especially with the structure and income and expenditure, or distribution. And despite the dissatisfactions that everyone else has shown, and I've shown it, and I'm showing that dissatisfaction this time, and I've had a number of amendments that I've proposed to the competent commission. They are not supported today and I did not refer them to further procedures for this House. In fact, I am not happy with the answers that I received, but in front of the session, I asked myself for the answer, and I found it only in the fact that BiH has an obligation to bring the budget and that BiH is at this point the most needed budget. And I consider that a big step, to say, in this time. That is why, at this point, I again express some dissatisfaction, but for reasons and political, and our constitutional obligations, and that there is no way to question the functioning and financing of both the BiH institution and international obligations, I will accept this Budget Proposal. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1448	Thank you, colleague Krišto. A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1449	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues. I expected a little in the procedure of a different relationship. In the light of the fact that the budget in the parliamentary procedure follows the legislative procedure and that we are in the second reading should now consider the amendment by amendment, discuss the amendment individually, hear the views of the Council of Ministers' proposals and views in a way that follows the codes in order. It's in the law by the members, it's in the budget by the codes, and I'd like to ask that we go that way, given that we have 10 amendments proposed, to move forward, as the Rules of Procedure provides, to discuss the amendment by amendment, one by one, in the order that they are proposed. I don't think a general debate with so many amendments submitted can answer those questions that need to be answered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1450	Thank you, fellow Genjac. I'm a colleague of the Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1451	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, ministers and deputies, delegates. Here we should discuss this first, what Mr. Genjac suggested, how to conduct the debate, when it comes to amendments. But here, since I'm called I'll say a few words, nothing new than when we were considering the budget last time. I want to say that the basic problem, the cause of this budget, is the narrow fiscal framework when, I say, it is lightly at least lightly, not to say recklessly, not to say intentionally, the budget, the last Budget of BiH, which was 1,028.000,000, has been reduced to 950 million and frozen over the next three years. So the 2010 budget, which was 1,028.000,000, was reduced to 950 million and frozen by three years. And in the meantime, we had the formation of several state institutions, which means that this budget should have been increased. In this year we have additional funding of local elections, preparation of censuses, border crossings, pensions of soldiers, etc. And, even these 950,000, we know how we're going to secure 750 million and how that 200 million that I'm dear Bog knows. I think this fiscal framework, not only for this year, is a long-term threat to the work and functioning of BiH institutions. We tried, here and today we're going to try a modest amendment, 47 million don't even reach that amount of 1,028.000,000, we didn't want to now, appreciate the situation, the difficult economic situation, and somehow try to fix things with that 47 million. However, no one respected it, not even in the Council of Ministers, they voted us. We've been revoted in the presidency. We've been re-voted at the Zatoven House. Here, you'll vote us here today. And what does 47 million mean? What does it mean for entity budgets? It won't save them, they need far more funding, there it needs the International Monetary Fund, but 6 will endanger the functioning of BiH institutions. I really don't see, I don't see why these amendments are so stubbornly insisted that from the first to the last, the SDA are being rejected, and they are not being represented in the total amount, in everything that the BiH budgets mean, a lot. It will not save the budget or the Federation, or the budget of the RS, if the amount would be recovered from indirect taxes. But what's there is. I see that around here no one has the authority to think differently and to support these amendments. But I want to point out another precedent that is now being introduced, and I hope that precedent applies later. For the first time, here we had funds from Kasarna Marshal Tito. And she's getting into Budget BiH. I am now asking, here is the chairman and finance minister – will it be so when the barracks are sold in the RS? Are we going to bring all the barracks that are being sold into the budget of BiH? Now we've done it. It is one precedent that we should stick to, even though we all know, and then it was Parliament's decision, when the barracks were sold, that these funds were intended for the campus of the University of Sarajevo. But here, it was done as it was done, voted, but I'm holding you, here's the word and that's the document here, when some other objects are being sold or sold, let's see that they are also in the Budget of BiH. As the fiscal framework is wrongly set, and by that, here we have these days a statement by the director of SIPA saying simply that they are suspending jobs in the special investigation department, there is no money for these things. And we all swear to fight crime, organised crime, etc., rule of law. How they will only work with offices and salaries without those extra funds that all police agencies need to have when it comes to equipment and everything else that it means. I agree you need to save yourself. So, it should also be saved at BiH level, and here, and the savings, those savings for BiH when you follow from indirect taxes, percentageally, it from 16.4 I don't know, now it's down to 12 or 11, how much separation. And there's a constant increase in entity isolation. Especially given that in the fiscal context, the global fiscal framework foresees income growth. This year 4.3%, next year, 5.2-3%, 2014 is 6.1%, and the budget of BiH cannot even climb the mark. And next year, we're sure to have some extra expenses as we've now had local elections, I don't know the border crossings, preparation of the census and so on. If we're saving, then we should be saving at all levels. We can't buy airplanes, helicopters in entities, I can't pay for the lobbying of 5.6 million, and here's how we don't cut any wages, for 10,000 unbalanced employees, 10,000 workers, who have BiH-level uniforms, only needs 5.2 million. And over here on the other side, we're putting out a lobbying here of 5.6 million, for the work of foreign representations of 3 million, for work, here in Parliament various commissions 3 million, 47 million of various services. No one knows what these services are or what they're all about anymore. What I said last time, saving on pepper, and it's falling on the meat. In addition, here you can see the Committee of the Peace Implementation Board's Commissioners warns us there and says a comprehensive global fiscal framework for the period 2012-2014 and a state budget for 2012 will ensure the full functioning of institutions at the state level and the fulfilment of international obligations. Obviously, we all know that this budget will not be able to secure, nor will the functioning of BiH institutions, will endanger its work and everything that has caused these institutions to be formed. And then someone's gonna tell stories about how these institutions don't work. How's it gonna work if there's no money? So here's what I've been saying, even though I'm aware that there's not much use to it, but here's my duty to point out all the irregularities, the illogicalities, here's the end and the illegality in both the fiscal framework and the budget, because you know that by law, you have to settle the obligations that the state needs first, and only then are the obligations of lower levels of government being met. Here 7 went backwards, the advantage is given to entities compared to the state, and the state is still common, and all citizens, of all peoples, and it's necessary for the functioning and the enthusiasm and I really don't see any reason why, here and today, why we couldn't adopt these humble 47 million marks before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1452	Thank you, colleague Tihić. I'm a colleague of Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1453	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say a few words when it comes to the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations and to express my position on such a difficult decision, and it seems to me that the time has come for BiH to finally have a budget after two years. It is clear that this decision, when it comes to the budget that is ahead of us and which has come to the final stage of its adoption, has passed everything that needs to be passed in order to adopt, and, of course, it seems to me that there are conceptual differences in the adoption of such a difficult document. However, I personally believe that this is the moment when we need to go to BiH, in addition to all those legal solutions that we have adopted when it comes to the census and state aid, that this is another point that we need to resolve so that we can move on, and that we can simply resolve the long-term situations that have stalled BiH on the way back to the EU. Of course, there are arguments for and arguments against, but I personally believe that there should be a realistic approach when it comes to a document like this. I was thinking and analyzing the document, which we have before us, thinking and all that we did last year, especially on the Finance and Budget Commission when we analyzed the audit reports and when we reached certain conclusions. And if we look at now what the budget is like and what the revenue and expenditure sides are like and how the percentages are reduced the allocations for certain institutions, then we'll see that it's pretty much what we've concluded here in the House of Peoples. I want to say that for me, the arguments are for everything that follows us this year, that is also for the census, and for the conduct of local elections and for everything that follows us after Croatia's entry into the EU. Of course, the arguments against it would be that I don't think any budget is good enough to satisfy all those interests and all those needs that certain institutions in BiH have, but I think that we here at the House of Peoples have opened up a huge, huge step when we tackled various topics, including those of us who perform our duties here in Parliament. Of course, I think that, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to give my vote for a document like this, because exactly what I told you, weighing between what we're getting and what we're losing, I think this is exactly the moment we need to show the will that BiH has a budget even if it's too late, but that's what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1454	Thank you, fellow Rodić. A colleague of Tadić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests. Last time I talked about the budget from the point of view of some municipalities of opportunity and, of course, the principle of how the Rules of Procedure requires it. Today, of course, we must all enter into these questions that Mr Rodić spoke of and spoke of by Mr Tihić, because it certainly concerns a political environment in which we receive such an important document. I think that, through the debate on these amendments, it was necessary to specify a certain kind of decision and to give arguments which is why someone is against the amendment. Of course, I disagree with Mr Genjac, not for political but purely business reasons, because the debate on amendments is allowed through this, we don't have to go from one to the next. But here, by respecting your will, as a certain kind of party representative sitting at the table of six, I would like to say that the reasons that define the Serbian Democratic Party to participate in this process and to support this budget are certainly not the issues of inter-party relations with any political party, but the issue of relations with the political and economic momentum in this country. I have carefully read these amendments concerning expenditure items and what I can conclude is this. Amendment I refers practically to the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, and it has no social, political, or economic component that, at this point, my opinion, should have determined the final policy of the Party of Democratic Action. Amendment II concerns pensions relating to amendments to the Armed Forces Act. Given that we have already passed a new law and that there is no basis, I think that this amendment, although it is clearly a very strong political issue, could not be such that it determines the will of any party, because practically today the question of a legal basis has been passed on to the federal and republican parliament, and accordingly they will sink into a decision on how much funds and on what basis will be paid. Amendment III concerns security and the Ministry of Security with its sections, different agencies. And so all the way to Amendment VIII. amandman vi I think that only symbolically can help the situation in which the refugee population is located, it's about this 6 million as a type of donation to the donor conference. Accordingly, this cannot define the policy of any party or say if this is the most important question for which we would relate within a six, for one reason or for one reason to observe it one way or another. Accordingly, since eight amendments were offered, one has lost its base, the other is important from the point of view of humanity but can be solved in another way. And these six amendments, they refer specifically to relations within the Council of Ministers where each of the parties has been presented and, I suppose, where fellow ministers within their debate could conclude whether at this point for the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Defence, for the Armed Forces, for a police agency, something needs to be done. And where, I am convinced, we as delegates are not even qualified enough to assess, given the security situation and the state of defence, whether it is necessary to address very political relations in BiH in light of the needs that may be, perhaps not realistic, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security. For this reason, as a delegate to the SDS, therefore, I can support this budget, but I can partner you, in order to resolve these obligations set out by the agreement between the six leaders of which the budget is one of the remaining and tomorrow something related to the name of Sejdić and 9 Finc, I think I have the right to, therefore, call on in some debate within the Club you belong to to rationalise to some extent this attitude and to see whether these are precisely these amendments, given how I described them, for some kind of change in political relations that we may have in some other process of reform nature or, so as to say in general, to disrupt in such a way that one important party such as the SDA is going in a certain political direction which is so difficult to leave room for some kind of strong co-operation that we all together have in order to improve the lives of people living both in the RS and in the Federation. No pressure this is not, this is just one open position on behalf of the SDS which clearly shows that our support for this budget has nothing to do with any individual party's relationship, especially no... six, but primarily has a connection to the need for this budget to be adopted for everything Mr Rodić and many others who participated in this discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1456	Thank you, colleague Tadić. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1457	Important working presidency, chair of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, of course and present guests at today's meeting of the House of Peoples. We are very often in discussions at the House of Nations brought into the context of the Council of Ministers in whether it is effective and to what extent efficient, in one way or another, whether it is about the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting, whether it is about the assembly of ministers in this current capacity. We should go back a little bit and say that BiH did not have a budget for two years. If the past four months or three Council of Ministers had shown their political and any other capacity and I would say on the agenda of the Council of Ministers there were, so I can say freely, two budgets. This speaks enough about the active role of the finance ministry and the Council of Ministers to present to Parliament their concept of the Budget of the BiH institution. And speaking of the character of the budget, I would not agree that it can neither be social nor can be developmental, but can only be institutional, because the law says it is the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions. In this context, I would like us to view this budget as an institution budget rather than a BiH budget. On the other hand, what I want to say is that the budget is an important political issue and a very important issue for each country. Whether we want BiH to have a budget today or not. It's a matter of political decision for us sitting here. I think we here... spend a lot of time on comments on the amount of nominal values for certain items of this budget. And, of course, in the structure of the proposed budget and the Club of delegates of the Serbian people, as representatives of the RS, we are not fully satisfied, but we are rising from our dissatisfaction and are asking the question – are we going to be active so that BiH will get the budget. What kind of picture or message we send from BiH to the neighbouring countries, according to EU members, if we say that we are based on a consistent temporary financing trend. We can talk about incompetence, if we want something like that, we'll be a partner, but I think we need a budget. 10 Whether we have ever returned to the agenda of the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations, whether we have ever actively dealt with the issue, by analysing the effects of the agencies that we have on the level of BiH. Have we ever thoroughly conducted, I would say, a debate in both homes on the audit and what the Institute's Audit Office tells us. And of course, they could again be questioned by the analysis and structure of the budget, the need of BiH or increased or reduced. Of course, I belong to that category of people who feel that certain needs should be reduced and some rational characters should be guided in this regard. I didn't need to, of course, enter the metrics during this presentation, but I just want, for the sake of correctness, to inform delegates and, of course, other guests present at today's meeting at the House of Peoples, that we as the Joint Defence and Security Committee yesterday had a meeting in SIPA, that we talked to SIPA management, where we were clearly told and told that they had some disagreements with the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which, very often, they insisted on special, so they say, investigative measures and actions, and that this is causing a significant need for greater financial resources, and that there is communication between the SIPA and the Prosecutor's office to try to make these efforts to become aware of what is real and what is possible. We are encouraged by what we heard yesterday from SIPA, Mrs. Krišto and I were present, that solid means of carrying out activities are provided by law, that SIPA can do its job. I'm sorry that Mr. Bradarić, also a member of the Commission, was not present yesterday so that he could... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...that he could confirm what I said. Of course, we still have... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1460	Thanks, Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1461	Mr Dragan Čović answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1462	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests. Since it is about the BiH institutions' budget, how the second reading is in line with Article 113 of our Rules of Procedure we are discussing amendments and in general the bill we have ahead of us. I feel that I would have a lot to say about the structure of the budget in BiH at all and the budget of BiH, but aware of the relations that we have and how long it took us to get to the Council of Ministers, as long as it took, here is the representative of the Croatian people to come to the opportunity to recognise the legitimate right and support in the past elections of 80-90% of the Croatian voting body, it is clear how complex relations we are building in general everything we need here today. With much effort and effort on 28.12. last year, we succeeded, at the level of one of the settlement solutions in BiH, the talks of six presidents of political parties, to make a difficult compromise in which we have tried to address many issues comprehensively, and some of them are dragged through different levels of government in BiH, ways of negotiation, already full and 10 years, and intensively for at least 7 to 8 years. And then we agreed to create an ambience to immediately establish the Council of Ministers on the trail of the electoral will of one, the second and third people, and all the citizens of BiH, we agreed on the structure of the Council of Ministers and gave ourselves a task of what we should do about the laws that are already very much behind us through various procedures to this honorable House here. We have two things left that we agreed on back then, that we didn't finish. One budget for the current calendar year, or fiscal year, is the Court's verdict in Strasbourg that I believe we will work intensively after today to conclude this by 27.06. when we will probably gather together, in a number of representatives of our country, in Brussels and talk about the future of BiH, and at all my attention, I am deeply convinced, from... what kind of squabbles and arrangements, which are both current these days, and move into the field of real discussions on the budget in BiH. Not only about BiH, but within BiH, to deal with, namely, economic and social policy because today our situation is such that, I am afraid, we cannot closely see what is waiting for all of us in BiH in the next year, without speaking for the next two years, three days, about the repression that will feel very clearly in BiH, I would say, in an even more difficult form than we have today because of the ambience, if you will, in our environment. The recession wave that is repeating itself is simply felt in every segment of our environment and I think that with all the other political, and turmoil in BiH, but also all the other political relations in our environment I think there will be additional complications for the realization and achievement of the revenue side of this budget and for this fiscal year. I did just before when we had our commission, here are four colleagues here from the commission, voted to satisfy the form and against the repairs proposed by my colleague Krišto, and who were proposed by colleagues from my party in the House of Representatives, for one reason only to satisfy the spirit that we are trying to build between us, that we can normally decide and focus on the key issues that are expected of us. The truth is that we have given some of this budget for the right, 12 though I think we did not do it with this budget, but even with relations in BiH at all, that these days we must open up a strong social dialogue with all those who bind their destiny to the BiH budget, so that we are given words and possible suspensions of work, strikes and so on. I am convinced if we don't adopt today's budget that this situation is going to be much harder and that today how much we can manage this process. And if we're not at this level, here's what most people say we're going to do today, I'm convinced that this process will not be managed in BiH at all in the fall and that every beneficiary of the budget will have the same right to go out on the street and be unhappy. Because whoever is more realistic about the problem of life, the fiscal life in BiH, I believe that it is clear to him that at the end of the year we will pay salaries, material costs and everything else that is our obligations and at certain priorities. Of course I can also talk about the fiscal framework but here, that I don't touch it too much, and for the next few years he's only one... and appraisal, because only dear Bog knows what picture '13 will look like. And in '14. the year when it comes to the budget of this country or the budgets within this country. On the other hand, my request would be, without a wish, because of the sensitivity of the moment and the personal relationship we have between our colleagues, especially colleagues Tihić and a colleague from the SDA, to avoid any manipulation over the fact that someone has conspired against an idea and so on. We are aware every year when we adopt a budget at any level that then and wish fruit is a certain budget item, fruit... different views on different resolutions or interests which can be satisfied through a certain financial year, but at this point my request that we can continue to work normally, try to solve these repairs that you have made, the distinguished three colleagues, to try maybe through the budget rebalance for them to look for solutions. So to just get a little bit more space to see how we actually manage this process and we can really see, in two or three months, how much the revenue side is actually going to be and you saw how it's drawn here in the budget. And on the other hand, I'm sure there's no way that we can manage these processes in BiH without help, above all, international institutions that can help us and when it comes to this... I mean the IMF, but all the other financial institutions that are around us. Although it may be unpopular from a pay phone to speak and invite someone to offer you some funds regardless of the quality of these funds and the conditions under which they are given. but it is evident -- we have such an organised state, such political relations in this country that without such a single relationship I am sure that we will no longer manage this process. Here, on that side, I didn't directly comment on any repairs, and neither did the budget content itself, because I didn't think it was rational at this point, because each of us could do it for long and wide. I will certainly, as I have done on the commission, absolutely support this Budget Proposal aware of everything we have and bad and contained in that budget, because I do not see any other possibility of solving the issue of further engagement and seeking a solution, above all to strengthen one social sensitivity among all of us, so that those who follow what we are doing, who have chosen us in a very clear way, realize that we are making a maximum effort to make this difficult economic and social situation in BiH, the social picture in BiH, how much we hold under... and seek solutions to get out of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1463	Dear colleague Krstan Simić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1464	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished guests. It is difficult to speak after a speaker who in a certain way gave a gene to the necessity of this document at this time. I have to say that the budget in every society, whenever adopted, represents a very significant day, and an event, and opens a new page, I would say, in the year that goes, in which we go to meet. However, I must say that this document, which we hope to adopt today, has an additional value that has in a certain way suggested by Čović, when it is mentioned that this document may be a foundation, a cornerstone on which political parties that make up... six parties, to call them so, to build future relations, future agreements, future trust. And with that in this situation, when we all know what the situation is, this budget should not be a rock of discord, but rather as a chance that we can reach compromises on the issues that we need. So I'm just going to do some surgery that I think is very important at this point. Savings. Everyone here mentioned saving. It is an important category and it is not a category of this budget, it should be a permanent category of all institutions involved in spending public funds. That would mean that really after this budget is adopted, we should make a list where we needlessly waste certain funds, to see if there is room in these reconstructions for us to return and some of the issues that have been raised here, in this budget, to solve. What is particularly disturbing to me is that the budget cannot be a cornerstone of discord at this time, both in the country and in Europe and in the world. When I say so, it bothers me a little bit when we discuss and oppose the BiH state of entities. I believe that the entities of the BiH state, its constituents and that this system needs and functions as a single unit, where from the local community, through cantons, entities and to the state each has its responsibilities, each has its own obligations, each has its own burdens and those things they have to fulfil. So throwing bone, figuratively, between entities and the state is not appropriate because we all come from entities, we also come from local communities that ask very important questions about solving the problem where people live. The President of the United States Džeferson said a long time ago – the essence of every policy is local politics. There are people who meet the greatest number of their needs, there are people who want good hospitals, they want good traffic and everything else that follows. However, I will not return to the individual amendments, but I must comment on Article 1, amandman Ii which was pointed out by a respected counterpart, Tihić. I don't think reading this amendment and the decision that led to this situation could be applied as a precedent in the future. Why? In the six-way agreements on state property status, and when you first opened the issue, Mr. Tihić, we even spoke on the phone about some status solutions, I think something happened here that changed the order of conduct. This is where the Armed Forces sold something and they didn't pass it on to Canton of Sarajevo. If they'd given Canton Sarajevo the way they were supposed to, in terms of the spirit... of the deal, they wouldn't have had this problem today. The point of the deal was that the property necessary for the functioning of the Armed Forces should belong to the Armed Forces and that those assets that are not needed in the function of the Armed Forces would be transferred to local communities so that they, exactly what I was talking about, would improve the quality of their citizens' lives. That's true in Banja Luka, for example. The barracks transferred to campus, not sold. I therefore believe that we should avoid the trap that this amendment today, if someone, to whom certain assets were transferred, were to sell it to solve other issues, is to question that this property should be returned. 14 I am much more concerned about what awaits us when we adopt this budget. Not from the point of view of this budget, but from the aspect of the realisation of the budget, from the aspect of the years that we have before us that everyone thinks are crisises. Yesterday I had the opportunity to listen at a press conference where members of the Fiscal Council of Serbia advocate that the minority is today, and the minority yesterday, and not today, needs to increase VAT, because the simple revenue side will be very, very tense, it will be very difficult to realize and it should be more concerned than we have today, with respect of course that if it gets better, if there is always an opportunity to question these solutions in one quality way... it solves those issues that are most painful and it will be much more visible in the realisation of the budget. Of course, I'm going to budget this, and I think we should support it just in order to create an environment that and this meeting that follows in Brcko, especially until the Brussels meeting, we also have a decision of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, Sejdic-Finca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1465	Thank you, colleague Simić. A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1466	Thank you. Since it's the mood to talk like this on camera, I won't insist on an amendment to the amendment, because obviously the mood is that way. However, you will allow me, in this discussion, to discuss these matters, therefore both the budget and the amendments, to refer to both some circumstances and some amendments. So there can't be budget rebalances this year in September. He can't do it for any more reason. It can't be that I got an answer on the commission today when I asked why the budget couldn't be increased by 47 million, the answer was because the global financial framework of 750 million from the Single Account and the point, and it can't even mark anymore. That was the response of the Council of Ministers. And well, that is so, the adopted fine financial framework without the participation of the SDA in that, which is a member of the coalition, a strategic document, a key issue, a significant coalition participant did not participate in this. I'm just saying for a moment, the amendments proposed were the ministers' amendments to the Council of Ministers in terms of the needs of their ministries and they are not supported by the Council of Ministers, and they are overvoted there. Neither is the plight of what is the fiscal framework and what is said this year to be 750 million from the Single Account, but in my opinion, contrary to the Fiscal Council Act, contrary to Article 5, which says in Article 2, so that the Fiscal Council is competent and responsible for adopting the proposal for a document the global fiscal balance framework, which includes among other things – a proposal for macroeconomic projection and projection of total indirect taxes and their distribution for the next fiscal year. So, this document is done for three years, it is audited every year, but the handling schedule from the Single Account Office for indirect taxation is projected for the next fiscal year. On the contrary, on page 1 of the agreement, the global fiscal framework says, in point 2. – the fiscal framework document found that the framework of the BiH institutions' budget for '12, '13. And in '14. to be 950 million, and to allocate revenue from indirect taxes from the Single Account Office for indirect taxation of 750 million KM. Where it found the foothold legally 15 for this, I can't see. Why it's so done, I don't understand. Entities are not mentioned how many entities they will be in these three years, how many they will be able to reach in this document does not stand. So the law says that these procedures are determined and projected and distributed for the annual fiscal year, we have here for three years for the state concreteized. And I'll tell you right away, correct this mistake in the global fiscal framework I'm going to vote for the budget this year against, which may even be a party condemning me, so correct this error in the fiscal framework I'm going to vote for the budget. So, the story of this, the importance of the budget, the usefulness of the budget, the necessity, the political implications, I thank all my colleagues for the very quantifiable words, but believe me, you knock on the open door when it comes to the SDA. And SDA delegates, because it's long known, so we've always been about to get... Why we have been on temporary funding for the past two years, it would probably take a long time, but it is not appropriate, I am now to say, here is the budget, but there is also a budget and a global framework that will enable the functioning of BiH institutions and fix that functioning that is wrong. So here we have a problem which is at this point, so when we analyzed these amendments, when it was working on it, when ministers worked, the minimum minimum was taken, the minimum minimums and we got the answer – it can't, because it's a fiscal framework, it can't even mark. What happens next year, what happens next. I assure you that we will have fat and fat and fierce conversations here in Parliament, what will happen. And there's going to be something that we don't exactly want to happen, with a fiscal framework like this, if that's it. So, I'm going to look back on a few amendments because I think, as far as I'm concerned, about Amendment I, so since I'm speaking on behalf of the promoter, I'm going to look at the maximum to use the time rationally and in some way, but let me do a little bit of business, because on behalf of three promoters I'm talking, to explain more for the public and more to understand the problem. So we in the Parliamentary Assembly in early 2005 made a decision on the sale of Kasarna Marshal Tito's land. That decision was made because the Council of Ministers told us, or wrote – given that in Article 1. The immovableity law does not define the concept of immovableity, but that this law refers to other material regulations defining the concept of immovableity, the provisions of this law cannot be automated... on the adoption of a decision on the sale of real estate which... through the Agreement on Succession. This property is subject to the Succession Agreement, and it belongs to the State under the Sucession Agreement. That's what I think we can agree on. Article 2 – The decision... to regulate the issue of real estate sales on the basis of the Agreement on Succession should be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, given that the state of BiH has been registered as the holder of ownership of this property and that the decision determines how the funds will be spent. So, property obtained by succession, the head of state, the decision only the Parliamentary Assembly can make. And in this case, it is the Parliamentary Assembly. The Council of Ministers so officially informed us, the Parliamentary Assembly, and the Parliamentary Assembly made a decision. Afterwards, the House of People concludes that it obliges the Council of Ministers to make a decision on the cost of the sale of immovable property to the parliamentary procedure in a hasty manner. Four years of full term of the previous term calls after countless interventions and demands that the decision be delivered in a parliamentary procedure has never been delivered, therefore the decision. When we were selling that barracks, we were all aware and we were all aware that it was an object that functionally used by the university and that the funds were going to the university. And under that arrangement, we made a decision to sell. After that, the Council of Ministers was to refer a decision to the parliamentary procedure to explain, to propose, so to supplement the decision and to say the funds go to the university. The Council of Ministers never did that. When I asked the Commission this morning why these funds are now going to the institution's budget, I got an answer – several years are on the bill, we have no legal basis to be directed to another and 16 now on the budget of the institutions. So that answer means the following - there is no legal basis to give to other institutions, which means that all objects subject to succession do not have the legal basis to be given to others, but to institutions. That can only mean it. If otherwise interpreted, therefore if otherwise interpreted, if it is literally so, it is okay, if this agreement is interpreted differently because this agreement is last said – whoever was functionally using the object belongs to it, if it is interpreted differently, and if so, if this means giving up on that agreement what was functionally to give up, then fine. However, if it is different for other facilities, this will mean robbing the University of Sarajevo, or Canton by 12.7 million. That's definitely what it means. And that is why we have tabled an amendment to either leave these funds to Parliament's decision, or not to show up in the institution's budget. Because this means, this has implications, it has implications. The next thing you know, when we are, this second amendment is talking about 47 million increasing the institution's budget. I explained. The answer is – he can't because the fiscal framework is like that, he can't even mark it. Now let me present about what we're looking for to increase and what such a fiscal framework does not allow, what it means. So we're looking for an amandman i for the Department of Defense 18 million. If we as delegates can assess what the social, what the political, what the economic dimension is, and we can, we can also explain what resources are needed for which the ministry and what priorities are. This is about ensuring, among other things, that the Ministry of Defence is filled with a deficit of 655 soldiers whose replacement was planned until May 01, 2012 and 300 soldiers for whom a public competition has already been called, among other things. So, what degree of political, economic importance has the fulfillment of our commitments on the road to NATO, I wouldn't say it right now, but believe it has a development component as well. It is further foreseen that for the costs of employees, for energy, because energy did not last year at all, energy was not obtained because of temporary financing, etc., and these are simply needs that ensure that the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Armed Forces function elementally. Amendment II speaks of grants of other levels to ensure the financing of these agreed, agreed principles of financing at entity level of persons who were war participants and terminated their contract in the Armed Forces. Amendment III speaks about the needs of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, it talks about the protection of a number of high school students in the agency. And one, and the other, and the third, and the fourth are talking about the unbalanced figures of middle-preparedness and the Border Service, and the Agency, and the Armed Forces, which with 5 million extras would ensure that those persons, not to cut the salaries of those employees who still have very low wages. So they're not big funds. amandman IV speaks of the Service for Foreigners and this is on the trail of the obligations of ours that we have accepted regarding the liberalisation of the visa regime. There are no large funds, but it is about the need to transport illegal immigrants to the country of origin, the asylum centre, because the number of migrants in BiH has increased by 58% and so on. Amandma v speaks, Amendment VI speaks of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts, that it is necessary to provide the funds. This million that's been spoken of for equipment doesn't apply to DNA labs and forensic labs. I will only remind my colleagues of these funds have been donated and they have been subject to the Protocol between the Federation, RS and BiH security ministries to deploy one equipment in Sarajevo, one equipment in Banja Luka, the protocol has been regulated when and how these funds will be given to forensics. So Protocol it completely, and this million doesn't apply to that equipment that is far and far more expensive. 17 For the coordination of police bodies, this is one of the obligations that we have met in the police reform, it is intended to increase for the reason why this number of employees needs to be increased here, to ensure what is required and what needs to be protected by unformed persons with medium-sized access from the further collapse of their personal incomes to, therefore, 701 police officers, to the level of a younger inspector and so on. Amendment VII is not a minor amendment, i.e. VIII, which refers to the Ministry of Human Rights as a 6 million asset, as it is assumed that this provision is to be given to withdraw the funds of donors collected at the International Donor's Conference under the theme – Permanent solutions for refugees and displaced persons. So, it is very difficult to find an explanation, it is very difficult to find an explanation, especially if we point to the importance of adopting the Budget and adopting the Budget while ensuring the functionality of BiH institutions, it is very difficult to answer why at least these amendments cannot be accepted. But it's a matter of political relations and political approach, and we've suggested on our part what we thought was useful, that it is necessary, most will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1467	We have a replica, Mr. Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1468	Mr. Genjac, of course I share your point of view that these funds should be extremely helpful in a segment of society, which is education through property, former military property. However, at the moment you spoke about the Succession Agreement, it is true that this is a Sucession Agreement, but the succession was a relationship between BiH and the republic, i.e. the states resulting from the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. The relationship does not affect internal relations in BiH and we unfortunately, and for two and three years as it lasts, we have failed to resolve the issue of state property, we have failed to define the concept, we have failed to define its structure. And with that, your remark that this is a matter of state property could not be decided by us. I agree completely with you that this issue should be raised and see if there are solutions to the following and... which were in relation to this property in other positions, locations, a solution is found, but I don't think that in Budget this is how this issue should be opened and the notion of state property that we haven't solved yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1469	Ognjen Tadić, a replica again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1470	Now, here's what I'm thinking, they've got these three sections -- the correction of the wrong quote, what I'm saying can't be introduced under anything -- the help of a friend, as an option that a man can apply to sometimes respond to what he hears from his colleagues. So here's if logic is things, and the most time you've spent explaining it, what to do with the funds related to Campus, or University of Sarajevo, and if the logic at the same time is that there is no legal basis for how to transfer it from the Budget of BiH, or from its account to, not 18 I know, the University's account, then let's just change logic and get to the same solution. If 750 million are, therefore, the framework for the joint bodies of BiH, agreed with the name, did not agree with it now, okay, then count on the fact that the BiH Federation has received more practical money thanks to it, among other things, this funding. You in the Federal Government create a logic that now the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Education, will transfer the funds to the University. So, what's the point of what I'm saying? A million ways can solve a problem if we want to solve it. Each of your arguments I respect, but I guarantee you that there is a special way for each of these arguments that the SDA, now I'm talking about, after that journey it says – we have achieved the same goal another way, the SDA can support this Budget. If we think that way, we'll solve the problem. So that's why I came forward with the contents of this replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1471	I should get involved here a little bit around this property, I just don't know where to press this, this for this replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1472	For his word, dear colleague Sulejman Tihić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1473	I didn't think it was a good place to talk about it, but dear colleague Krstan Simić opened the issue. We talked about it in 2008. For years, the two of us agreed, and when the Prudic agreement was made regarding the property, these principles were adopted and ultimately served as the basis for this Banja Luka agreement that was made, and on the basis of which the agreements were made, these decisions were both made and military and state-owned property. The basic principle is that the assets of the former SFRY, i.e. the property of the Republic of BiH, or the property of the Socialist Republic of BiH, and what is all part of this property, have the title holder, which is this Parliament, or the state body of BiH. And in this political agreement it's clearly written. As the decision comes to an end, the political agreement is again the result of an agreement between the government of the entity and the Council of Ministers. It's made one compromise, one combination. But ultimately, the decision on the distribution of assets can be made, can be made, as well as any other property, by the owner, if it is the seller, if it is the donor, or this time it is the state. But let's go back specifically to this question, this property relating to kasarni maršal Tito. In the political agreement we signed, we have five types of military property, you know five species. One is the perspective that BiH Armed Forces should use and will be registered to BiH. Another property the Council of Ministers now says is needed for BiH's needs. The third is the property used by BiH institutions such as the Court, such as the Prosecutor's Office, such as Kasarna Zmajevac, OSA and so on. The fourth type of property, which is probably the most numerous, is the property used by certain institutions, entities, cantons and so on. That property will be entered at that level of government. So, if he uses the University will be enrolled on Canton, I don't know, if he uses a hospital some, a regional centre will be enrolled in Tuzla there that barracks will be registered to Canton Tuzla or I don't know you, the National Assembly of the RS that will also be enrolled on, military property will be registered to the RS entity. Now this particular 19 property, meaning "Maršalka“, kasarni maršal Tito, is in office of Canton and can only be under this agreement if it were applied, is that the agreement was adopted, the funds would be directed to Canton, not for BiH's needs. The same day tomorrow when another property is sold, which will not be needed or excessive for the needs of a certain level of government, and, I don't know, canton, entity, municipality, etc., it will go into that budget. However, we are now making a precedent here, you know, to make a precedent that even under this political agreement, which is being converted into a legal act, should belong to that level of government functionally to Canton, it is being transferred to the state budget. Is this going to mean that the future, future sales of these assets, which they will surely come to, because there may not be a need for all this property, will it also be introduced into the Budget of BiH if we follow this principle, this logic. That is the contrary, it is the contrary to the agreement signed by the leaders. And because it's the opposite of that agreement, I don't think it should be found in the budget as an income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1474	Thank you, colleague Tihić. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1475	I had no intention of answering for the second time, but I want to remind us all of article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People and the agenda and agenda that is here in front of the delegates. Of course, as the youngest, I would like to suggest that we return to what is on the agenda and stop the discussion of this issue, and I am convinced that the processes that are being conducted in BiH will produce that debate in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Let me, once again suggest we get back to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1476	Thank you, fellow Košarac player. He's a colleague of Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1477	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The budget will obviously be adopted today, however, one rough perception remains that it is not good for a party as strong as the SDA to be against this budget. I have to admit about this budget when we look back at it, what Mr. Košarac says, I agree with the fact that there is a lot of room for some reductions and so on, that this should be seriously done in the future to learn and to see where these savings are possible and to try to do something. However, in this complicated way of adopting such an important document and the way we have come to the final proposal is as it is and I think objectively there is no possibility for some interventions right now. It is legitimate for the RS to seek to transfer as little jurisdiction as possible to the state. Legally, it is also the right of state-run parties within BiH to seek to transfer as many of these powers to the state as possible. And this is the fiscal framework and this is the budget that we now have and that we simply have no other option but to accept it. 20 I, like, here is the delegate in the House of Nations, would pray to the representatives of the SDA, for further problems are expected now, not by adopting them, not by supporting this Budget by the SDA, sending an ugly message, it is not good not to adopt and almost unanimously this budget. If there's any possibility of something changing, of accepting from some amendment, we know it's hard to do something now, and I would once again call on them, simply appeal to support this budget too. I'm saying, there's a lot to say about him, and I'd even like to say that these demands, the amendments they've made, let's say for me, are personally acceptable, everyone has a logic. However, we are simply in this situation now that the budget is what we should vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1478	Thank you, colleague Vrdoljak. A kolegica of the Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To those colleagues who have had correct discussions, I thank you. Those who remind them that the SDA is a very important political factor and that as a major party should participate today in the vote of the budget, I remind them that even such a large political party as the SDA needed a famous Fiscal Council to consult in the construction of, therefore, the conduct of a discussion on the Global Fiscal Framework and I am deeply saddened by the fact that in these discussions I am constantly amnesting the responsibilities of the Fiscal Council for a simple reason because today and in this Chamber there are people sitting there. What gave them for the right and who gave them the right to come from the Federation, from only one political option, representatives participated in the adoption of such a rough framework as it dealt with primarily, so to the Budget of BiH and absolutely did not take care of entities. It really should have been said out loud in front of the public here. Instead of dealing with three years of thinking about where the state will go forward, how it will think about policies, in terms of economic movements, what priorities and objectives are, this Fiscal Council has only dealt with the freezing of the state budget at 750 million, and therefore the budgets of the entity have increased – RS 325 million and the Federation 200 million. I think that the three-year stagnation of the budget is inadmissible for the simple reason that in the budget's explanation, it was said that the uninterrupted work of BiH institutions must be ensured. So now I'm asking -- how are we going to provide that if we have 15 new agencies and we don't have enough and enough resources to do that? For those who, therefore, are once again working for the public, I say that the Fiscal Council has been carefully dealing with entities, which is their policy, and their budgets, and that they have frozen entity budgets at the level of 2008, the new famous borrowing of the IMF to the Federation should not, and I think that it should only then be possible to enter into a solution to the social crisis that exists in the Federation, and we are only entering a larger social dubiosis. One of the colleagues mentioned the social insensitivity of the amendment's proposing. The future and opening of the possibility of social dialogue with civil servants, again forgetting that the 2009 civil servants are 10% reduced wages, that their salary is reduced again this year, and I ask who will work in state institutions when they know, each of the civil servants, that the salary in the Federation institutions is much higher, with border police officers at a state level of 50% lower than federal police officers. So who are we even going to intrigue to stay in these institutions and work? 21 The very, very wise and insightful government of the Federation has reduced salaries by, so it first increased them by 10% and then reduced them by about 4%, as they create savings and, with these cuts, they continue to pay more than all the people sitting here and who ultimately allow normal work to be done by the Parliamentary Assembly. For that reason I don't think there's any, there's no room or place to talk about the logic of the federal government absolutely at this point, what they're doing is illogical. I note again that one of the delegates said, mentioned the normal functioning of the institutions and meeting the conditions for the European partnership and the adjustment of the programmes and activities of the Ministry of Defence and other resolution ministries, and therefore those ministries had to be involved in implementing BiH's Partnership for Peace and Accession to NATO. Part of our amendment applies to that, too. I remind again, as at last session, of the proposal and request of the Communication of the Steering Committee of the Peace Implementation Council, that the state budget must ensure the full functioning of the institutions, I continue to argue that it cannot do so. But in doing so, he urged BiH authorities to prevent the annulment of the moves made towards the return of refugees and displaced persons to their pre-war homes as guaranteed by the Aneska vi Dayton Peace Agreement. At least to some, it sounded like a symbolic, therefore a tendency, intention and demand to the SDA in Amendment VIII, which treats the return of refugees and displaced persons of 6 million marks, but that also means something. Because I'm asking if we don't have that six million how do we get the funding from the conference that was recently held. So we do not respect what the PIC recommends, of course, that we do not respect, so neither work nor strengthening institutions. Our Amendment IV, which, for those who remind us of social insensitivity, we think that we were socially sensitive and very responsible to the Border Police and we asked that 3,600,000 marks be provided for their needs, among other things 2,300,000 for gross wages and compensation, because it really is not normal for border police officers to have 50% lower salary than the Feds. The colleagues don't think so, these coins could easily be found to save themselves so that things like the rainfall in the budget of the RS would not happen in 2012 to say 2,878,000 in 2012 were given to foreign representations, 320,000 to finance the non-existent airport in Trebinje, or to say 25 million for Sky Serb subsidies. That is, therefore, 25 million in subsidies to the Sky Serbs are half of what the SDA is seeking in its amendments. I don't think there's room to say that we're socially insensitive. I think this leads to a deeper political crisis, the fact that an important, therefore important factor in the agreement of the six is not consulted in the construction of the fiscal framework. Why does someone, therefore, amnesty the people who work in the Fiscal Council, why these policies have been adopted. I think it's high time for the public to give a clear solid answer. I think we're bringing BiH institutions with three years of freezing, so BiH's budget for three years, although it is contrary to Article 6. The Fiscal Council Act, I ask where, if we're freezing funds in three years, then how are we going to find funds for the list, which should be next year, in the amount of 30 million? How sufficient funds will be found to prepare for that list, which is next year, on which at the very least all of you, who have long been in parliamentary benches at this level of power, have been very insistent. There are no funds in this budget. And I think that we should send a very clear message to the public that, therefore, the amendments to the SDA were all, but at least socially insensitive, the more we think we are absolutely right, taking care of the fact, about the projection of revenue from indirect taxes per category, about their total increase for each year, and by 2014, they will grow to 6.1%, so why the stagnant budget of 750 million marks and 200 for which, in fact, a very high-ranking official said that he doesn't really know how to find those 200 million. I think the government should have considered our amendments, so before the 22 amendments were included in the creation of the amendments, our two distinguished ministers and deputies, who are participating, so in the work of the Council of Ministers, and respecting their ability and the power to assess what the Minister needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1480	Thank you, colleagues. We have a correction to the wrong assumption. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1481	I apologize, but I have a need to say a few words, given that in previous discussions, we have looked back at entity budgets and the development of entities. Of course, I didn't want to, of course, appreciate the exhaustion of the people involved in the budget, including the Parliamentary Assembly, to rephrase this issue long ago to Mr Tihić, so here I just want to say that there is no need to be too much of an analysis of the budget of the RS, we at the House of Peoples of BiH. Every time certain projects are made for the development of the Federation, we will surely look forward to from the RS and consider the success of all of us to develop the Federation of BiH. And I see nothing controversial about RS building an airport in Trebinj, if it buys planes, that it will certainly not reflect positively on the overall standard of living in BiH. Every investment and development project of the RS should be supported, and in this context we will certainly not have any prejudice or complex when the Federation of BiH develops in such a way. I would ask you, so they have institutions of the RS, as responsible as the government, such as the National Assembly, have elected political representatives of the people and citizens in the RS who will deal with this issue and think that we should affirm it exactly, I would say a balanced development of BiH, we should look forward to the progress of the RS just as we will support the progress and development of the Federation of BiH and in that spirit show, I would say, the sensitivity of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1482	Thank you, colleague Košarac. We still have a colleague, Bradarić. Here's a colleague of Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1483	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. Again, Mr. Chairman, we didn't listen, because we should have just talked about the amendments, talked about the amendments, and we talked about the budget two days ago, and I specifically said that I would vote for the budget, because I did, and I said that the way it is, it's a bad situation, but the alternative is a black and terrible state if we didn't adopt it. I've spoken without any political paints, colors, but I'm going to try to paint it very politically today. And by the end of our term there will be a lot of proposals, laws, I don't know what we won't agree on either, but certainly the budget must not be the subject of disagreement until the end of the term of office, as the most important political document. We're all here, especially because we're all here in position, there's no opposition here, Mr. Mladen Ivanić got away with it cleverly today, yes, I'm not commenting. I'm angry at myself today for not proposing five hundred amendments. It doesn't matter that they would be 23 technically incorrect and it doesn't matter that there's no balance between the income balance and the cost structure, so I'm sorry that, now that I'm making a little joke, I haven't submitted the amendment, and there was one, and I told you last time that I was there at the House of Representatives, which I didn't suggest making polygons in Coobs, and Cobbe is a village near Novi Sheher, and Novi Sheher is at Maglai which is a small place. And I'm sorry that I didn't propose to raise employees' salaries even to the level of technical secretary, technical advice, about 50%, so that people who do these jobs realize that we're not against it. But here, I didn't want to talk about it that way, thinking that the Council of Minsitarians would solve it, they eventually got the task of doing it. I'm not sure, let's not be angry with my colleagues from the SDA, that if they accepted these 47 million, I'm not sure they would vote for the budget today. We're a little irresponsible, like we came from another planet, like we're not responsible for what's in the Armed Forces, like it's not our fault that the Agency for Forensics is without equipment, like it's not our situation in the Border Police, like we're not guilty of pay, at least here and on behalf of the three of us who come from the SDP, we can say that we're clean as a tear here. So responsibility, we can't run from responsibility. And today, really in this way, about the budget talking, I think it's demagogue, it's declassified, it's no use, and so, all of us could find a thousand reasons for that. So I repeat again, I'm going to vote boldly for this budget, which I don't think is good, but I also think if we didn't bring it today, we'd go into a chaotic state, into a chaotic situation that would be very difficult to get out of. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1484	Thank you, fellow Bradarić. I hope we've all been given a chance to properly express our position and about these repairs. That concludes the debate on this agenda point. And now I will ask distinguished colleagues Tihić, a colleague of Kapetanović, a fellow Genjac, do you insist that we vote on these repairs individually or should we unite the vote on all amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1485	Can we do it individually? Individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-31-0.u1486	Thank you very much. We will now declare ourselves individually on the amendments of counterparts Tihić, co-worker Kapetanović and fellow Genjac. We vote first on amandman I.. moliti initiate the voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 - 3 for, 10 against. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, RS 4 against. We don't have the general majority. Amendment I was not adopted. 24 We vote for Amendment II. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 3, versus 10. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, RS 4 against. We don't have the general majority. The amendment wasn't adopted. Amendment III. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 3, versus 10. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, RS 4 against. We don't have a general majority. The amendment wasn't adopted. We're going to Amendment IV. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 3, versus 10. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, RS 4 against. We don't have a general majority. The amendment wasn't adopted. We're going to amandman V. moliti initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 3, versus 10. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, RS 4 against. We don't have a general majority. The amendment wasn't adopted. We're going to Amendment VI. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 3, versus 10. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, RS 4 against. We don't have a general majority. The amendment wasn't adopted. We're going to Amendment VII. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending, it's a mistake but we won't repeat, present 13 - for 3, versus 9, this is a mistake but here we don't repeat. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, 1 abstention, RS 4 against. We don't have a general majority. The amendment didn't go through. My apologies, but here we go again. We're going to Amendment VIII. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 3, versus 10. Federation of BiH 3 for, 6 against, RS 4 against. We don't have a general majority. The amendment wasn't adopted. We are now pleading on the bill's proposal. Please initiate voting procedure. These aren't amendments anymore, we're voting on the law now. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for 10, against 3. Federation of BiH 6 for, 3 against, RS 4 - all for. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority. 25 I am establishing the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for the current calendar fiscal year has been adopted. Thank you very much. We've exhausted the agenda for the 17th session. Collaterals, envoys one note, the College of the House has arranged that the 18th session should be held on June 22 at 11:00, with a fairly contained agenda, so here you can plan your activities. Thank you again very much for our guests. I'm closing the 17th session of the House of Peoples. Session completed at 12:50 a.m.
