ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10162	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 28th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the Bureau, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH, representatives of certain NGOs who have applied for monitoring the work of the Assembly as well as representatives of the media. Also, representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of the BiH Court of Justice, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency and the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Staying Conditions in Institutions, the conduct and respect of the human rights of the person over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by BiH or another court, in accordance with BiH law to consider material under their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, there are 36 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the agenda – I hope you get it or you get it very soon, since we have just finished the session of the Extended College – we have removed it from the previous agenda - Tačka 3. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act, at the request of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Given that the proposed new amendments to be agreed with the proposer, i.e. the processor of the bill, have been set by the College of the House as the deadline for the submission of the report by 6. Six. 2012; - Point 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System and point 9. Proposal for a Law on the Public Television Service of BiH. These two points were removed from the agenda at the request of the Transport and Communications Commission, which did not consider the draft laws due to the absence of the applicant. As the deadline for the delivery of the report, the House's college was set by 6. Six. 2012; - Point 11. Report on law enforcement under the Central Election Commission for 2011, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. She did not consider the Report because the meetings were not attended by representatives of the Central Election Commission of BiH; 2 - Tačka 12.. The report on the work and business of BHRT for 2011, at the request of the Commission for Transport and Communications, which decided not to consider the Report, since it is necessary for the Management Board of BHRT to submit to the Representative House an independent audit report on BHRT's 2011 business, and to draw up a plan for the resolution of the financial consolidation of BHRT, and to remove technical errors in the Report and to supplement the Report; - Tačka 13. A report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission did not consider the Report because the meetings were not attended by representatives of the BiH Ministry of Justice; - Tačka 16.. Information on the key security challenges in BiH in 2011 and Analysis of the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Strategy to fight organised crime, at the request of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Joint Commission has not completed a debate on the Information, as there has been a lack of quorum at the session. At the same time, we added a new - Tačka 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, based on the conclusions of the House of Representatives addressed to the Council of Ministers; - Tačka 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, according to an agreement reached by the six-year-old, and this morning the Council of Ministers submitted the proposal for a review; - Point 8 of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. In my note, I would like to say that an extended college has agreed, given that there is a tendency, when reports are discussed, not commission laws, that authorised representatives of institutions whose reports are not present at committee meetings, and that in the event of a two-time absence of certain institutions and their representatives, the Commission will send a negative report to the Kolegijum, i.e. to put those agenda points on Parliament with a negative report from the Commission. I call on all institutions, representatives of these institutions, to monitor the work of committees, to follow the report in committees, otherwise their reports will come with a negative view from the commissions. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10163	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10164	Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10165	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the distinguished guests, namely, points 3 and 4 of Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, i.e. the emergency procedure, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, which introduces MPs and delegates into the Law on Salaries and, of course, the same coefficient as it has been so far. I understand that this is a good mechanism to reduce or increase the salary of all employees and employees in the system who pay from the budget, but given my initiative, which I delivered several months ago in the parliamentary procedure, I asked for a reduction of salaries to Members and delegates by 20%. I am afraid that this draft law by emergency procedure does not allow any intervention by amendment or correction, and I think it should allow this to go according to a reduced procedure, that it can possibly be affected by coefficients, because it is not the same if a salary of 6,500 KM or monthly income, as you will, if it decreases 4.5%, it means it will not fall below 6,000, or a border policeman, or, I don't know, a worker of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, or an official, here in Parliament who has 800 marks of salary and if you reduce 4,5% of it is a significant amount. So I suggest that these two laws, this law as well as this one under point 4. (on the service in the Armed Forces of BiH), let us allow the laws to be corrected eventually, because in this form I think they are unacceptable for the reason that, here, and at point 4, we have a situation for the members of the Armed Forces to be brought out of law, that is, that is, the bill, and we say that this issue will be resolved, that is, they have the right to do so by entities. I don't think that's right, and it's incorrect to that category of people. We still passed these laws here and gave them rights, so now how do we leave them on the street, I don't think it's at least correct to that population.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10166	Thank you. My colleague Šemsudine Mehmedović, I did not want to interrupt you because your colleague no longer applied and there was no need to warn you... with agenda points. These demands came from the Council of Ministers. We can't change those demands in the agenda. We can also adopt this agenda when these agenda points come to discuss it and vote in a way that translates it into one of the other procedures. Therefore, you were not able to discuss business in this way. But here, since there were no more reports, I'm closing the debate. I find that the 28th session of the House has the next 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 27th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; 4 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; 5. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, Proposed by the BiH Presidency, Law No 01,02-02-1-1612, of 4. 5. In 2012 (second reading); 6. The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Law on the revision of BiH institutions, MEP Ismet Dervoz, Law No 01-02-1-412, since 19. 1. 2012 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1712, of 8. 5. In 2012 (first reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1812, of 9. 5. In 2012, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 9. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions; 10. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina for a period of 14. Nine. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2011, material number 01,02,056-50-19-50512, of 12. 4. 2012 – a delayed debate at the 27th session of the House of Representatives held on 10. 5. 2012; 11. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2011, material No 01-50-19-51312, of 16. 4. 2012; 12. Information on the programming process of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) – Component I for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 and 2013, material of the Directorate for European Integration, No. 034-06-39412, of 7. 5. 2012; 13. Information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, with proposals to improve the situation in this area, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, No. 01-50-15-53412, of 19. 4. 2012 (on the occasion of MP Nermin Purić's initiative, adopted at the 24th session of the House of Representatives, held on 15th). 3. 2012) – a delayed debate at the 27th session of the House of Representatives held on 10. 5. 2012; 14. Analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes Cases, Materials of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, No 01-50-2-13-2612, of 16. 3. 2012 Court of BiH, No 01-50-19-125711, of 22. 3. In 2012, and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, number 01-50-19-125711, of 5. 4. In 2012 (on the occasion of Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 20th session of the House of Representatives, held 2. 2. 2012) – a delayed debate at the 27th session of the House of Representatives held on 10. 5. In 2012, 15. A statement on Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative from the 25th session of the House of Representatives, held on 29. 3. In 2012, which reads "I propose to prepare and hold a special thematic session of both the 5 Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the topic of the current position of BiH on the European path – meeting the obligations of the Roadmap and BiH's progress in the European integration process" within the shortest period of time in April 2012; 16. Extending the mandate of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the spending of donor funds; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Readmission Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the 15th Agreement 12. 2011 concerning the loan agreement and the project of 23. 2. 2010 for 71,000,000 euros between KfW, Frankfurt on May (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred by the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia" d.d. Mostar (EPHZHB) (Agency for the Implementation of the Project) – Vjetropark Mesihovina. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. One Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 27th session
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10169	...I have no other way, I have left it on the agenda, this is more of a business intervention. So, in this whole mess, and removing points 7, 8, introducing new ones, I have no materials, I have not received documents, or amendments and additions to the bill on additions to the Law on Salary and Emergency Care.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10170	You will get, while the parliamentary questions and answers are working, material will be delivered in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10171	So I know what I'm going to discuss. And I don't have this material related to the amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces. I have a... request. So, I don't have those materials. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10172	So, as we realize this point of parliamentary questions and answers, you'll get all the material that's being printed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10173	When do you think we should look at that?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10174	If it's necessary for any club MPs to seek a break, we'll take a break, if necessary and necessary. You will see that these materials have already been considered several times, that no major changes have been made. If it's necessary, we'll take a break. For this part of the agenda, no one answered. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received The questions raised and the initiatives addressed to today's session were raised by Borislav Bojić from the Council of Ministers, to questions asked at the 3rd and 24th session; Mirsad Mešić from the Council of Ministers, set at the 15th session; Lazar Prodanović from the Council of Ministers, asked at the Franjičević session; MPs from the SBB from the Council of Ministers, asked at the Zaimović session- Uzunović Fazlić from the Council of Ministers, asked at the 23rd session; Niko Lozančić from the Council of Ministers, asked at the 23rd session, and Mato of the BiH Prosecutors, asked at the 26th session; Beriz Belkić from the Council of Ministers, asked at the 23rd meeting, on the 23rd session, on the issue of the 23rd meeting of Ministers of Ministers and Ministers of the Council of BiH; Ministers of BiH, Ministers of the Council of BiH, on the Council of BiH, on the 24th and Ministers of the Council on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 24th, on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 24th and on the Council of the Council of Zijad Jagodić of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 24th and on 24th and on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 24th, on the Council of the Council on 24th, on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 24th, on the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of 24. I ask the MPs if there are any comments. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10176	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer to the question. The question was, in fact, a requirement for all BiH employment services to provide data on the number of unemployed and I received an answer to that, with measures taken by the state... to increase the number of employees and reduce the number of unemployed. I've got the answer to the question. The answer is correct, he describes the state it is in BiH today. I didn't just ask that answer to get an answer and have that information, but to serve it as a basis for an initiative that I'm going to now run. - That the competent ministry, which has, of course, delivered to me, the Council of Ministers, which has provided me with an answer to this question, prepare one piece of information on the situation in this area that will be the subject of debate here in this home, whose goal is therefore that we, within our jurisdiction, do what we can and adopt measures to increase the number of employees and reduce the number of unemployed in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10177	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10178	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer to two questions. I am pleased with the BiH Prosecution's response because they have informed me that they have no knowledge of the illegal availability of funds intended to encourage agriculture in the Federation of BiH. I got before that, so I'll comment on the Federation of BiH prosecutor's response in which they replied that they are taking certain investigative actions related to it, and I'm also happy with that answer. The second answer, by the second answer to the second question, 'how many workers were lost during 2011 without a job throughout 2011. A year?', unfortunately, I'm not satisfied with the answer, except for statistical indicators that I'm also not satisfied with because they're dramatic. This response shows that in 2011 there are no jobs in BiH (means no employment new, which is referred to by the Employment Strategy), there are 95,000 people left, 95,000 who worked, which means, according to some estimates, about 10% of the total workforce in BiH. And the answer that says there is a Employment Strategy is, at the very least, disappointing. So this is a state of emergency, because people who worked until 2011 are left out of work because of the situation in BiH, and I have not seen from this response that any meaningful measures are being taken to stop this trend at least. So I'm not talking about new employment, I'm talking about stopping the process, a negative trend for people to lose their jobs. Here, all I have left is to appeal to all the governments in BiH and the Council of Ministers, of course, that this issue is really extremely serious and that they are taking action together to at least stop this trend. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10179	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10180	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you all very much. Here, to my question 'when the Strategy for the Development of Infrastructure and Quality in BiH will be done, I received a very clear and short answer from the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which states that what I asked was, in fact, the EU delegation as a key priority in the framework of IPA programming for 2012 and 2013. The task force working on the preparation of priorities, i.e. programming of IPA, has not reached agreement on this issue. The consequences will be far-reaching and I did not ask that because we would have one more strategy, but because it is one of the key priorities that allows free flow of goods and which is one of the key priorities for BiH's European integration. If we're not able to agree on this sort of thing, to do a strategy, then the question is, what can we actually get agreement on? On the other hand, one of the tasks of the Roadmap Action Plan, adopted at the 2nd meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers in February 2012, has been said to be the priority of drawing up this strategy. The budget has not been set aside for it, no funds have been allocated for the development of this strategy. However, it is not impossible for this ministry to assume the role of someone who will do what needs to be done, that is, the Strategy for the Development of Infrastructure and Quality... because it has resources, for sure. Other institutions of the BiH state also have the resources to do this. I wanted to draw attention to this particular problem which is very little of interest because... it is not the topic he deals with, so building our laboratory capacities that are necessary for exporting and for transport at all, or exporting our goods. I think we'll all feel these consequences. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10181	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10182	Mr. Chairman, my question concerning this 'when will the authorities in the concession Commission of BiH, the Regulatory Agency, the Missing Persons Institute and the Office of Appeals be trained?', the answer is not complete. I received only a reply indicating a complex situation at the Institute for Missing Persons, and there is no response relating to the appointment of members of the Management Board, or members of the Commission for concessions of BiH, the Office for the Review of Appeals, in terms of the appointment of the President, the duration of the term of office of the same, as well as the Regulatory Agency for Communications. In that sense, I ask the Council of Ministers to answer this question completely the way I have asked it. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10183	Thank you. Next is Honored colleague Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10184	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have received several replies over the past few years to the initiative in which I have proposed that members of the operational and strategic boards and managements in firms that are doing negative work for more than a year and a half must be replaced. However, with two answers, I was particularly pleased that they supported it, but four cantons and representatives of the RS entity felt that this authority was resolved by the Law on Economic Society and that the congregations had the right and could run such a thing. However, I am aware that the Law on Business Society defines it to be possible if the congregation so decides. But I suggest where state capital is majority that such management and management, including supervisory boards, must be replaced. That is why I am going to re-launch the initiative in any way to introduce the Law that regulates this area: and that they must, and I cannot, even though it is wanted by the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10185	Thank you. The next one is MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I received an answer from the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the question I referred them was January 27th, so since I didn't get an answer, on February 22nd, I referred the same question again, and here I received a response from the institution three months later. I'm not satisfied with the response delivered. I asked them to provide me with information on the number of indictments and suspended investigations by the BiH Prosecutor's Office in war crimes cases. The answer I received from the Prosecutor's Office was only, in fact, a number of numbered indicators, numerically, how many charges were filed which were confirmed by the Court of Justice of BiH and in the second part of the suspended cases. What I am not satisfied with is that the reasons of the BiH Prosecutor's Office – I therefore specifically asked for the delivery of information on the name and last name and nationality in both cases – therefore, both in confirmed indictments and suspended cases, the Prosecutor's Office replied that it could not deliver these questions, allegedly due to the nature of the investigation, which is completely absurd and incomprehensible for two reasons. The first reason is that, for example, the BiH Court of Justice, in the same question as I referred to them, provided in response the tabular names of all persons convicted, with the number of years of life-bearing penalties. Here 10 says that this is not possible because of the nature of the investigation and then says that, of course, they are also calling for the Personal Data Protection Act, and then even more absurdly, they say that even the persons from whom the prosecution has given up, means from the investigation, that even if they are not able to declare those names, even after giving up their investigation, those persons are completely free citizens, without any doubt. So, not to mention that MPs can be provided with information that is strictly confidential. If we could get that from some other institutions, why can't we get it as MPs from the D.A.'s office? But of course, it is not purpose and purpose, but purpose is something else, and it once again says how problematic it is and how discriminatory and position it is, and how action it is, and the results of work both the Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court of Justice have spoken of in some previous situations. And that's why we still think that their work is very trendy, that it is conducted and that of course there are certain tasks. So I'm not happy with the answer, but it's absurd and completely pointless of them to ask them anything and ask them any questions when they do what they do, and as long as they do, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10187	Thank you. That concludes the comments on the answers received. Moving to Subpoint: b) New Agents' Issues The first registered representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say, I'm about my question, and I'm pretty scared by one statement, I've been thinking that I'm looking for a agenda point, but here I'll be happy to hear it from you in the context of the parliamentary question. In fact, on May 15th of this year, Mr. Sulejman Tihić, president of the SDA, said his party cannot leave the Council of Ministers because who will defend BiH if we leave the Council of Ministers. Since the SDA is controlled by the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defense, I was afraid that Mr. Tihić might know what we don't know, from his ministers, which is that some armed force, whether alien or alien, from this or some other galaxies, is preparing an attack on our country. I have to tell you this is not at all, I appreciate Mr. Tihić as a serious politician who takes care of what he says and who doesn't make such an easy statement. And I therefore ask that by the end of this point the sekretarijat provide here the presence of the Minister of Security and the Minister of Defence to tell us whether they have such information to prepare some attack on BiH. And that still, with Mr Tihić saying that BiH does not have the power to defend 11 without the SDA, I wonder if this means that the SDA has some paramilitary formations that are stronger than the Armed Forces of BiH? So I ask that the ministers come to us to the end of this point and tell us if there really is any danger to BiH's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10190	Thank you. The next is distinguished colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10191	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My koleginica Members and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, were referred to the Ministry of Defence and were concerned with the increasing cases of incidents happening in the odlučan Barbara range. So 22. A young man, a 20-year-old young man, was killed by the remains of an unexploded missile found in a polygon. A subsequent investigation found that the young man died 600 metres from fugasa. Fugasa is a place where weapons and ammunition are destroyed by detonation, as well as that the polygon was not provided by the BiH Armed Forces. The young man's relatives claim that after the detonation was completed, which destroys ammunition and mine-explosives, 130 unexploded missiles were found on the polygon, which no one provided. Also, I would like to remind you that in July 2011 an incident occurred at the same location where a missile took off five kilometers from the site of destruction. According to media reports, many secondary raw materials collectors spar with the odlučan Barbara polygon, (let's wait for the SDA club to complete the discussion, the debate and continue), and in an attempt to repair their home budgets, resulting in injuries to those faces. Accordingly, I ask the Minister of Defense to answer the following questions: 1. Is the report on the investigation in that case completed and what are these results? 2. Why isn't the odlučan Barbara polygon properly provided, thus avoiding the loss of the local population in Glamoch? 3. In whose area of responsibility is this polygon, and what has been taken by the Minister of Defence and the Joint Chiefs of Staff to no longer repeat those cases and what measures have been taken against the responsible persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10192	Thank you. Here, now he will have the opportunity to say the esteemed Šefik Džaferović, without making any noise. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10193	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have three parliamentary questions. I must say immediately that these are the issues that have come to the BiH NGO's initiative. I accept them as my own, but it's fair to say where it came from. So the first question is for the Directorate for European Integration: 'Does the Directorate for European Integration have a consultation mechanism with civil society organisations? So there are many conditions and reforms ahead of BiH that must be implemented on the road to the EU, and the involvement of civil society in the work of the authorities in any form is certainly one of these. BiH signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU in June 2008. In its preamble, the agreement clearly stresses the need for greater involvement of civil society in the European integration process. Experience gained in... Union enlargement shows that civil society must and should play a key role in meeting the accession criteria and thus bringing one EU country closer. In addition, the European Partnership stresses the role of civil society because involving NGOs, civil society and local authorities is of great importance to policies and activities supported by the EU. Civil society in the process of bringing BiH closer to the EU can act in ways of informing and educating the public about the process of European integration, participation in the process of accession negotiations, and monitoring and evaluation of progress in meeting the requirements for the approximation of the EU, the implementation of advocacy campaigns for the adoption of certain reforms, especially those that do not have full public support, and need to be seen in terms of meeting the conditions set out, encouraging will, the usability of EU pre-accession funds and a stronger role in the future use of structural funds." Second question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers: 'Who is responsible for the implementation of the Agreement and why has the Agreement not been implemented so far? The agreement on co-operation between the Council of Ministers is thought of the agreement, hence the Agreement on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the NGO sector adopted at the 8th session, held on 26. 4. In 2007, it was signed a month later. The Agreement lays down the principles and principles of co-operation between the Council of Ministers and civil society organisations and the obligations of foreign signatories. Under the Agreement, the basic obligation of the Council of Ministers of BiH was to form an Office for Co-operation with the NGO sector which has not been formed so far." And the third question is for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, also: 'How much have the Rules of Law been respected in the work of the BiH Council of Ministers? Did the BiH Council of Ministers refuse to consider any draft law that did not comply with the procedure mentioned? Do all ministries have persons in charge of the consultation? If so, do they carry them out in the intended way? And does each ministry publish its annual normative plan of activity on its website, with an impact on the public of each of the planned regulations?" I won't read the explanation, it's contained here in this matter. Time's running out and I'll stop here. 13 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10194	Thank you. I warn Members of Parliament of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to focus on a single question. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I know I have no right to ask the question to the College, but I am asking the Secretary of the House of Representatives of the Assembly of BiH and the Professional Service of the House of Representatives: 'I am asking that the comparative indicators be delivered to me on the work of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives for the first eight months of the day of election of the current term of office and for the first eight months of the election of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives in the previous term of office. I ask that the following data be delivered to me: the number of sessions held in the House of Representatives, the number of points discussed at the House of Representatives, the number of laws adopted in the first and second readings, the number of ratified international agreements, the number of reports adopted and the number of conclusions adopted." I ask the second question to the secretary of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the secretary of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives: 'The BiH Constitution in Article IV. says the Parliamentary Assembly has two homes, a House of People and a House of Representatives, and that they are exactly the same in legislative or any other sense. With this in mind, I would like to be provided with comparative indicators on the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the first eight months of the day of the election of the current term of office and for the first eight months of the day of the elections of the BiH Parliamentary House of the current term. I ask that the following data be delivered to me: the number of sessions held at the House of Peoples, the number of points discussed at the House of Peoples sessions, the number of laws adopted in the first and second readings, the number of ratified international agreements, the number of reports adopted, the number of conclusions adopted." The reason for asking these questions is because I've heard from one, really, let me say, an MP who I greatly appreciate that the work of this house, the House of Representatives, was bad and that it was the worst work, so I want to make sure of this data. I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10196	You won't need that pay and fees and that, you don't need that. Okay. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10197	Namely, my question is similar to that of my previous colleagues, the chairman. I would ask the following question, perhaps the question was referred to the College of the House of Representatives: 'These days, the Centre of Civil Initiatives has submitted a report, or had a press conference where it finds that this Parliament is very, very modest in its work and that it is in a mood to do nothing in fact and to rob budget funds. So, in a very rough and, I would say, a unilateral way to treat Parliament, of course, and the Council of Ministers, but I don't want to discuss the Council of Ministers because they'll probably say that. I think this is a low-class kind of public manipulation. This country is not in a position to write such reports unilaterally, without getting into the essence of the problem in the measure of things. Namely, it should be known that this is only one of the parliaments in BiH and is not compatible with neighbouring countries, with Croatia, with Serbia. There are unitary states and there is one parliament. And they cannot be compared to the BiH Parliament which is one of these, so there are entity parliaments, there are canton parliaments, they all have state powers and they pass laws. Therefore, legislative activity is represented by more than one entity in BiH, and in this direction it is necessary to approach the problem in such a way, not in this way. Secondly, when it comes to salaries, this parliament has 57 MPs. Serbia, it is somewhere in the world record, it has 280 - 300, how many, Croatia also has over 200 MPs, but it seems to me there are no less salaries than there are BiH lawmakers in Serbia. Compare, please, when you speak then talk about the facts, how many Members of this House participate in the work of committees, at all in the working bodies, and how many are there. As far as I can see, almost every MP is a member of at least two committees in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10198	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10199	So, I'd just like to finish. The second, third thing, is not only the legislative activity of this Parliament, but also the organisational activity, the personal, financial, control, and all of this is done by this Parliament. And of course we should keep in mind what this parliament is doing if the public is already reporting on the work. Of course, this parliament has discussed budget spending very often and asked the Council of Ministers to take appropriate measures. Here, I will take this opportunity so that the Council of Ministers, there is the chairman, consider adopting a law on the control of budget spending,... this Parliament does not have, because it would be very useful to pass such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10200	Time! 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10201	It seems to me, just one sentence, that one part of the BiH media, as well as some NGOs, are acting on the principle of Hegel's cynicism. When they asked him "Mr. Hegel, so the facts do not support your claims", he replied 'them up by the facts'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10202	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10203	I have one question for BiH's Attorney General and High Representative Valentin Inck: 'Do you, after a debacle in Washington at the NATO summit, where BiH has not made progress, intend to continue to obstruct the recording of state property and, above all, the prospective and immovable military assets at 69 locations established by the BiH Presidency or will you continue to wait for a political agreement, or a trade agreement likely to ratify this assembly?' Reason: One sentence, therefore, is the irrefutable legal fact that it is state property. Recording that property is a technical issue, and any other availability and method of use of that property should be regulated by law here in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10204	Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10205	Dear President, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I was also encouraged by the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society on this issue, and the question concerns the Council of Ministers: 'Are the Resort Ministry working on drawing up the document Framework Budget for 2013. – 2015 and will the Council of Ministers adopt it by the end of the sixth month?’ Reason: So, for me, the budget, after the Constitution that we have not yet adopted in this assembly, is one of the most significant documents for the state of BiH, and we know that the Law on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH defines the obligation of the Council of Ministers to adopt the Framework Budget by the end of the sixth month for the next three years as a pre-mark of the budget for the following year and a preliminary draft for the next two years. In this way, if we stick to the law and this, we won't be in the situation that we have now: that last year we haven't adopted the budget in any way, that we will adopt the budget for this year only today. 16 So the question is clear and I ask for an answer in writing from the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10206	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, guests and guests, followed by the conclusions of the House of Representatives from the 14th session, held 24. 11. In 2011, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: 'Is the BiH Council before setting out the draft laws and other provisions of their drafts conveying to the BiH Gender Equality Agency at the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, in order to obtain an opinion on compliance with the Law on Gender Equality? Did the 14th session of the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers of 169th session, held on 21.11.2011, see the state of human rights and refugees at the BiH Gender Equality Agency? In addition to my questions, I am delivering a notice on the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers and the conclusions of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, and a reminder of the UN Committee for the Elimination of Women's Discrimination from the 35th session following the BiH Periodic Report." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10208	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10209	Mr. Chairman, my question was addressed to the Council of Ministers: 'The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on BiH has gone from optional to a voluntary phase of mandatory harmonisation of domestic legal rules to communal. I ask the Council of Ministers, under whose direct supervision the work of the Directorate for European Integration has been carried out, to answer me: Is a single legal act adopted at the level of BiH institutions on how to comply with our regulations with the communal ones and to introduce us to the details and mechanisms of the same, especially in the context that, according to me, the available evaluations, almost 70% of the harmonisation of legislation and implementation of the directives, regulations and other aspects of the EU legal instruments, relate to entity competences in BiH and the rest to BiH institutions. I am aware that an act has been adopted at Council meeting of 17 ministers on instruments to bring BiH's legislation into line with the EU acquis and I am interested in the results of the institution's conduct so far in the decision in question. I would like to ask you for information on the available degree of translation... to official languages in BiH. Will we use done translations from neighbouring countries, help neighbors and use their already done translations to save time and resources so significantly? According to estimates, it is more than 100,000 pages of European legislation material to be translated." Thank you. I demand a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10210	Thank you. Dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: 'We know that a donor conference in Sarajevo was held at the end of April, where certain funds were allocated to BiH. My question is: In what way and by what criteria will the funds that BiH received at a donor conference, held in Sarajevo in April 2012 be spent? I request a list of municipalities in which the donation funds will be spent and for which they are specifically intended. If the Ministry has made any plans to spend those funds, I ask for that plan to be delivered to me." Reason: Therefore, it is known from the media that these funds are intended for the definitive disposal of displaced persons who are not residently taken care of, so they have a specific purpose. I am interested, therefore, in particular this part of the municipality, the amount per municipality or plan, if any, to deliver the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10212	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10213	Thank you, Chairman. I have two parliamentary questions to the Council of Ministers. First: 'What are the real reasons why we have been waiting for months to agree on the proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs and the Proposal for an Ethics Code of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption? 18 And the second question is: 'Do the Council of Ministers, following an analysis (no) of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy (for 2009)? 2014) plans to amend the Strategy or the Action Plan for the implementation of the Strategy in order to dynamicise implementation?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10214	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10215	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, I will ask a question, not to get an explicit answer, but to initiate activities and to warn the circumstances in which we have been present. Although a previous colleague has already asked a similar question, I will be more specific. 'The issue concerns the Fiscal Council and the Council of Ministers, and also the Global Fiscal Framework, the Framework Budget Document. So, the Global Fiscal Framework brings the Council of Ministers by the end of the fifth month of each current year, it is innovated every year for the next three years, and it is then a document used for the Framework Budget Document that brings all levels of government to itself. So this first brings the Fiscal Council, and the Framework Budget Document brings the Council of Ministers. I mean, here's a formal question: Will the deadline be respected, and it's not my goal to get an answer yes or no, but to launch an initiative and not to come into the position where we are, because this is one of the basic documents for all the BiH authorities." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10216	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10217	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, media representatives, I welcome you all together. I have one question for the Council of Ministers, the government of entities and the cantonal government... which reads: "What is being done to fight black labour? Has anything been planned in this area recently and what has been the effects of the measures taken so far?" I don't think it's necessary to specifically explain this question. The grey economy in BiH is booming, and the damage BiH suffers from such practices is immeasurable. I understand that making it possible to work in black and in some way that the state institutions are staring at this phenomenon is a good mechanism currently for buying social peace in BiH, but long-term BiH will pay a very high price for it. Here is 19 through only one area, we in BiH today have a large number of people, young people in the 30 years of life, who do not have minutes of work. In 30 years, these people will be social cases. He's not gonna make his pensions, his pensions. The state funds will suffer from this huge damage and we will eventually become a country social case that will not be able to fulfil its basic functions. So, please respond in writing and with the accompanying documentation of the effects of the measures taken where such documentation exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10218	Thank you. The next question came from Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10219	Thank you. I have one initiative for the BiH Council of Ministers: 'Being in mind that foreign direct investment in BiH in 2011 compared to 2010 is lower by about 42%, and compared to the past four years, 2008 is lower by 57%, which also affected that the International Credit Agency Moody's reduced BiH credit rating from stable to negative B2. I therefore urge that foreign direct investment is planned in the future through the construction of highways, concessions to international companies, and not to credit debts that make our highway mileage the most expensive in the region. This would significantly speed up all activities in the country's infrastructure and economic recovery, and offer the Council of Ministers the opportunity to target the resources available to other major projects." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10220	Thank you. And finally, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't know who to ask anymore, but here's the Director of the Service for Joint Affairs and Secretaries of both homes: 'So it's just amazing, it's not the main problem of BiH, but this morning I've had an awkward experience, I'm walking past the pillar downstairs, and there are some foreigners waiting for me to take pictures of me near that pillar that says something we're on strike. What's important to them is that I'm gonna be there next to that painting. To bring home the order or to examine who can glue any posters, what is being done in this facility for which Parliament is in charge. This is Parliament's property. I wish I had a union initiative that they suggested a 10, 20, 30, 40% reduction, because there are many institutions on strike here for years, and they take money. I do not defend Parliament, but I ask that 20 all be published on our site, that the salaries of MPs in the total budget may be up to a million marks, that I do not now speak the exact figures, that the total for Parliament may be allocated to close to two million marks. What about 948 million spent in BiH? I'm not defending what the distinguished Professor Kunić said, who's attacking us all. Well, here you are, gentlemen, doing what you know! But it's just amazing that neither the union, which I support, but if they do, they're wondering if we're going to collect what we predicted. What will happen to this country's entry into Croatia? Is there a problem with this country? But there are posters and the first thing that came to me – instead of always saying Bog help me when I enter Parliament, because I know good people are waiting for me to go – it says: We are on strike. What strike? Well, now I'm going to go after Parliament, all the offices on strike, just drinking coffee. In other institutions that are outside this parliament and seats, they never came. What about them? Will anyone ask what these people are doing? I support it's hard for everyone in this country, but do these gentlemen know that there are workers who don't receive salaries after five or six years? What about their children? As soon as I go to Parliament's session, he says, "Mr. Messenger, where are you going, they're on strike." What, sick, on strike? There's no shame in saying that on strike. And when we solve that, then to the MPs, what Mr. Mehmedović has suggested, let's go people 20, 30, 40, 50%, if we're the only problem in this country, reduce everything if it's going to move forward. But I don't want some strangers taking pictures of me down there. And they're just waiting, like it's a hidden camera, when I come across. I came by, watched, saw that the strangers, pulled out a cell phone, some camera. What's the matter? It's a picture of me next to that one. Which newspaper will I go out to and where will I appear in which embassy, but not to appear in my Parliament where I am an MP here and moved into this building in 80's?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10222	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda item. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives I hope you got the materials in the meantime. I would like to remind this house that in 10.5.2012, with the signature of all the presidents of clubs and members of the Extended College, it was adopted in which the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the BiH Council of Ministers to hold a meeting of the House of Representatives until the next session of the House of Representatives, that is, today, to prepare a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the BiH institutions with a request for urgent consideration, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House, which will include MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly, which is what the Council of Ministers has done. Is there a need? 21
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10224	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10225	Dear counterpart Šemsudin Mehmedović first appeared for the discussion, and if further clarification is needed from the Council of Ministers, although our conclusion was clear, we are at our disposal. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10226	Well, since I broke the Rules of Procedure last time, here I am now going to repeat part of my discussion. In this attempt by the Council of Ministers, take or leave it to be legalised, in fact, to legalise high salaries... of MPs and delegates and even members of the Council of Ministers, which have so far been determined by the administrative commission decisions, and I think that an emergency procedure under Article 127 should be rejected, that it should go to a shortened procedure, 126, for the reason that it can be intervened. Why am I saying that? Here, if you look at the essence of this law that is very short and has several members, you'll see that actually the coefficients remain the same, of course, the base will change beyond the possibilities. But in Article 2 of the basic law, Article 39a) of the Law on the exercise of the parliamentary and delegation mandate, they remain exactly the same, they are defined by the provisions, i.e. by the administrative commission's decisions. So it doesn't really change anything. If we adopt this law today,... I don't know which agenda point, we'll see that in fact a reduction of 4.5% of all salaries of budget users, in fact, doesn't mean anything to MPs who are going to have a basic salary of 4,000.00, I don't know, 300.00 cut by 4.5%, that's about 200 marks. I don't think that's correct in front of all those,...this is what Mr. Jovičić was talking about, who were on strike, here, and here in Parliament. Therefore, I think that this procedure should be refused, rather than followed by a brief procedure and possibly intervened against the members of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10227	Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10228	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I just have to remind you that all the MPs in this Parliamentary Assembly have not been able to hear the conclusions of the College and the signatures that you mentioned, etc., so it is very difficult on the basis of all of this to understand that within five minutes of receiving this law here we also give our views on the law itself, and that there are no more details here or grounds for such solutions. Here, let me just hang on to the arguments. First, under the Roman I. stands the constitutional basis. And in that sense, I would also like to remind you that this Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, has also adopted the Amendment to the Constitution which deletes a member of the Constitution that does not allow 22 pay cuts during the term of office. I would just like to remind you that the procedure has been fully stopped at the House of Peoples and if there is indeed a political will, which you have shown by reminding that all representatives of the Members' Clubs have signed the request of the Council of Ministers to go to a reduction of salaries, why has there not been a erasure of that member, i.e. by putting on the agenda of the amendment to the Constitution which is in the procedure of the House of Peoples? Secondly, here, among the reasons for the adoption of this law, the reason for the adoption of this law is the conclusion of Parliament which obliges the Council of Ministers to prepare a bill covering MPs. So that is the reason, instead of explaining itself, really, if you go to a pay cut with some quantification of effects, financial, etc., or a total range of different categories that receive wages or which are covered by the Law on Salaries. Let's just say there's no such reason here. And third, an even more absurd explanation for the passing of this law. Article 1 says, 'The coefficients are specified.' We have an unusual bill here where we don't have to say that the member that's said so is changing, so instead it's going to be like this. Or, for example, Article 2 says: 'It has been established that a new member is added behind Article 39', etc., and Article 3 which is specified the obligation to publish this law in the Official Messenger. So there are a lot of issues that are also related to the procedure itself, the way this law is delivered in the parliamentary procedure and, of course, the open issues of what is obtained by such solutions. And in that sense, the chairman, I would like to ask that someone from the Council of Ministers and, behold, I welcome the presence of the Council of Ministers, the Resorial Minister of Finance and Ministers of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers who we haven't had in this number since the beginning, since their election in the Parliamentary Assembly, but here, it would not be bad for any of the motions to explain to us what these solutions are coming from. As far as I'm concerned, the reductions in all four comas are somewhat rare. So, very symbolic, which suggests that this law just needs to be sent to someone. What is obtained by these solutions, why has it really not gotten more detailed into quantification or redistribution, to say, the payment system within the law itself, all those covered by the Law of Salaries? Why didn't it go into cutting fees and suspending the cobwebs, etc.? So a series of questions that cause this agenda point in the way it's listed on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10229	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10230	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the issues that has been disputed since 2008 when the Payments Act was passed. And because it was then controversial it did not even enter the law and, behold, it is now trying four years after that this thing is in the same way... or almost the same way it was intended to, to enter into the law, because the coefficients are practically the same: 8.70 for the chairman's home, 8.50 for the chairman's commission, 8.40 for MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And this down in Article 39a) it's actually a cochlean, he's taking it down, he's leaving it to the Administrative Commission, and she's already got a decision on the cobwebs. 23 So, I ask you to pay attention to this issue and not to link it to the 7th agenda item relating to the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. Colleges have asked the Council of Ministers for legislation in parliamentary procedure, among other things, about this, but this doesn't have to be an emergency procedure, because there are issues here. The coefficients must be reassessed here, I think the coefficients are high. And in particular, the question of MPs has to be reconsidered, so this is my opinion, I keep talking, and I will repeat it now, to MPs who are professionally engaged in the Parliamentary Assembly. I believe and repeat several times that the MPs who are professionally engaged have paid and that they cannot have a shower. And it's supposed to be written here in this law, and I'm asking that this has a regular, not an emergency procedure. Because it's not possible to do this in an emergency room, only in a regular fashion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10231	Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10232	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the College session, all parliamentary parties agreed that we are going to amend and supplement this law in order to finally position MPs within the law, which would create the basis for the reduction of salaries to also refer to MPs. Of course, this does not exclude everything that colleagues have talked about, the suspension of the flats, if we agree on other cuts,... or the suspension of commissions' work, etc. However, it is not something that treats this law and the adoption of this law absolutely does not mean that there is absolutely no will, by my assessment, for all of us to move on with savings when it comes to receiving elected officials. Therefore, the SDP Club will support what we have all agreed together at the College and as a first step in savings, when it comes to us, support this law with the intention of continuing activities that do not concern this law, and as counterpart Džaferović said, the work of the Administrative Commission in defining other contributions. When it comes to the Constitution, and this is Article IX.2) of the Constitution, we have reached one conclusion at the last session in that direction, and according to my information, the House of Nations will conclude at the first next session that we have completed in the previous term, so that this member of the Constitution will change the formal obstacle to reducing the salaries of elected and appointed officials. So, I don't think we have a problem here or the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10233	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10234	You see, my esteemed colleague Magazinović just to say that I am therefore fully convinced that these two laws should not be connected. This law under point 7 will reduce the base of all. When the basics are reduced, everyone who receives the wages, including the MPs, is reduced. We 24 had one such situation, it seems to me two years ago, there was no increase in the basis that the law prescribed, so it was all about everything. So, this law is not an assumption, or let the Council of Ministers tell us, to respect this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments in Institutions, because the basis is reduced and reduced to everyone, so it is also reduced to MPs. I'm talking about something else here, something I've already talked about, and I'm not saying it again. So I think it would be correct if we put this, this agenda item in the regular procedure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10235	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10236	Well, thanks to the previous discussions, I'm kind of now, in a way, realizing this combination of these two laws and this initiative. So, it looks like we're getting into the law now, and then this other law is going to give us all a cut somewhere by 4.7%. From previous discussions, I have heard that it is appreciated that there is an undivided willingness to seriously cut wages here in Parliament. And here, I propose to this parliamentary majority (with not knowing the SDA, but seeing there are some other schemes) that when you vote, it is obvious that you have an agreement, that you will vote this all out, that you will vote this conclusion, that you can, I'm sure, and it can be very effective: 'To order the Administrative Commission immediately to lift the flat-rate from next month.' So there won't be any more stories - yes, yes, yes. Well, we started in 2008, so we did this, so we're like, let's conclude at the first session of the Administrative Commission: it's gone. There are no procedures and there's no interference, let's just do it and send a message so we don't fake it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10237	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10238	Dear colleagues, here, I take the opportunity to say it's never too late. As while I was on this side of the bench, I proposed the pay law where there was a unique solution for all involved, so this parliament sought for certain reasons, then probably justified, to exclude itself from the law. Here, after all this time, I welcome it, and I support it, and I believe that even my colleagues will support this law today. And when we talk about the level of pay through this seventh point or through the budget, I have a lot to say: and wages, and MPs and the state level should be watched through what my asked representative question, through the Global fiscal framework, and that we have a unique solution when we reduce, we will all be reduced, when we have, then we will all have and in such a way we can only solve things, in a correct and consistent way. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10239	Thank you. Let me say a few sentences, too. My colleagues and colleagues, as serious people who we hold to our word and the serious political representatives of parties who hold to party policy, should act that way; 41 MPs (and we have considered today and no one has had any objections) adopted the conclusions, and that conclusion, which I have read to you, everyone has adopted. A kolegica of Azra was not the only one present at the session and could not vote because of it and I understand her story about the Law which, in my opinion, is a little confused and is not in the function of the parliamentary initiative that was here. Don't deceive the public or yourself. The administrative commission acted the same as if the law proposed by Mr Vrankić, now our MP, in which MPs were in the law. And we are now asking that everything that the Administrative Commission is doing just gets back into the law, which 41 MPs voted here. Don't be a daily target of stories of newspapers and so on. A politician from our ranks who's talking about doubting pay. Mr. Džaferović did well in the past term, part of his salary, as much as he thought he should have received as an MP, and that the rest was given in various humanitarian processes. Why doesn't each of you do it? Why do you tell the story every day about the pay cut, about the increase, why no one talks about the Court and the D.A. and we adopted those conclusions, there are no salaries, whether any of them dared and said they would cut 4.5% of the salary. It's already cut 4.5% of the salary to all MPs, because it's... The Administrative Commission, according to the Council of Ministers, which determines what the average labour price is, at the coefficients we have done so. So don't let us keep telling stories and filling newspaper signs with all kinds of things that aren't in the interest of anyone who works here. And I believe they're not even in the interest of citizens. Let's do what we agreed to do, do what 41 MPs here voted to do, and make a situation in which we will discuss what they had discussed, but then we will talk about the coefficients, where you can see that the presidency gets 10, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his deputies have more than the chairman of the homes, so we will talk about it. So we'll see in the country where functions agree, where the Presidency, where the Council of Ministers, where this home is, etc., etc. I think it's time to make order in this country, but not to do political acts, each of us full of newspaper headlines, articles. Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10240	Mr. Chairman, let me just try to give you an answer. So I have no intention of politicizing this question at all and it will be politicized until we react and we bring this into normal frames. Parliament and the Bosnian-Herzegovina public must agree with each other on this matter. As long as there is no agreement, it will be subject to politicization, and that's why I'm talking. If we've said that the Council of Ministers is proposing a bill, we haven't said what kind of solutions they're going to offer, so I'm saying -- people, let's open up a procedure here, so we can finally put an end to this question. Then the politicization will stop, and with these salaries will be politicization, Mr. Živković, it's a waste, I mean, you can't, we can't convince anyone, it's just like that. And I, believe me, I'm running away to talk on this subject all the time, but here's the day I have to because today is the moment when 127 is on the agenda, so take it or leave it. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10241	Of course, but you agree with me that in this conclusion, which everyone here has adopted, we've been looking for that procedure. The finance minister, Mr. Nikola Špirić, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10242	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, I think that the chairman of Živković said well and called for the conclusion that we received from the House of Representatives, and my colleague Vrankić absolutely said this is called, not amending the law, but supplementing the law, so the return of the Parliamentary Assembly and parliamentarians to the Law on Salaries. And no one is defending the Parliamentary Assembly from having a wider debate in the days ahead of the water, but simply coming back, because in 2008, there was no readiness. And why is the procedure, the shortened procedure here, an emergency procedure? Because there has never been absolute agreement when wages are in question, I think this is why it is called the addition of the law and I think it avoids one impression in the public that Parliament is exempt from the wage cuts, a 4.5% reduction, and I think this is a correct proposal based on the demands that Parliament has asked the Council of Ministers. Niko one's saying, when we have full consent, when we do the corrections again, there won't be an ideal change, an ideal change. That's why I think this is also called an addition to the law because Parliament and MPs are returning to legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10243	Thank you. Let's go replicas, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. Here's Drago made a little rhodo, probably to listen to me, too. Well, look, here's the finance minister well said that we wrote on that paper the return of the law and put an end to it, but we didn't say that it implies it and that we could, in the ordinary procedure of the disputed coefficient – which Mr. Džaferović had just spoken of, previously Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović – correct. Which is why we have no right to do this, which is why the Council of Ministers didn't do it immediately, both our own and our coefficients? We're talking about 4.5% here. If the Council of Ministers had made a decision to cut wages 40%, how much would it be for elected officials and for us to cut salaries, and for those below to be paid completely? So we have to do something in terms of nonlinearity, and we're going to talk about it in this pay law. But I think it would be fair for us MPs to initiate this process through regular procedure, to say how realistic this is, here we are all talking about the problem of the Fiscal Framework, the saving, the misery and misery in the BiH state, let us see the MPs as the most responsible what is the real coefficient for us, whether he is 5, 6 or 8, but we have to talk about it. We can't get through Article 127 in that way before the final act. That's why our reaction is like this. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10245	Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10246	Thank you, Chairman. First let me apologize at first, this paper was delivered five minutes before the debate on this point started and it caused, among other things, confusion, and perhaps confusion, and perhaps misunderstanding. I've been paying attention to your opening statement. Among other things, you mentioned the Expansive College, I said that all MPs were not members of the Expansive College and did not have the opportunity to give consent, etc. Since after both the arguments and the discussions and the special subsequent insight that I needed, allow, at least 10 minutes for this law, I would like to mention that since this is the introduction of MPs into this law, into the system of the Law on Salaries, which was otherwise the initiative and our parties earlier on, we will, of course, support this law and by an urgent procedure, and that part of my argument, which I mentioned, belongs to a discussion that will be held a little later on point 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10247	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10248	Thank you, Chairman. I either don't understand the matter or the intention of preventing MPs from being in the law, I'm interpreting it so, a little perfiduously, but I mean this way. I wouldn't remind you that we stayed and pawned which party as we stayed out of the law. And today it's just a simple correction of something, here's a colleague, Magazinović, who explained it. The other thing I can only understand is that we're diversifying and trying to re-create ourselves what we're so far, here we are, and the public, and I don't know who's already accusing us of being out of the law. And I don't know what path to explain is the path, but it's trying to complicate things with the alleged demagogue things that matter. The result of these efforts would just be that we weren't, so, I don't know, it's going to last our custom for months, and from that night, when some of us sitting in this room made this situation, here it is going to last until today, so we haven't done anything, and now we're calling on the same thing, too. I don't think there's any need for that. We have the space to go in the regular procedure in the next moves, what's said, and to really bring, and we have something to talk about. Why don't you tie your cobwebs to the pay line? Is that okay, is that logical? Why, when you talk about this then talk about the set, is it okay for someone to come to Parliament to Sarajevo for that money in slippers, while fellow Purić comes two days earlier. So, come on, that's a serious story where we're going to be absolutely involved and in which we're going to talk. So, these are all the things that are waiting for us, don't think, if it's okay to drive, I don't know, in an audience, which would be harmful. So come on, let's see, if we're going to convince people that we're not demagogues and a lot of things that we're not going to run away from that debate, we're ready to open it up, let's get into the law like the Council of Ministers suggested, and 28 immediately afterwards according to the procedures. On the contrary, we are left with the opportunity to create ourselves, if this doesn't go away today, to raise our own wages, well, that possibility is left to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10249	Second replica, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, Mr. Kalabić, so that's what you're talking about right now, that's what. Demagogue approach. We don't fight here and we don't say that MPs shouldn't be in the law, and we've been doing it for years, let's just say that, asked to be done. We want to come here in a parliamentary debate to the relevant coefficients for BiH MPs in line with the economic situation, which will then, in the whole debate on the law, now I accept your proposal, provoke normal and reduction of the ministers' coefficients, etc. And then we'll come to some extent here, we don't have any measures here in BiH. We're reducing those who have nothing, to us a little something... and we're talking about morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10251	Replica. I don't want to raise tensions, because I think it's important points ahead of us, but I want us to stick to words. I can't figure out how SDA voted once, and then it explains how he didn't mean it. 41 MPs voted here to pass the law by 127. You have this law here, what's the problem? The problem is that you didn't think so, the problem is that once you sign, the next day you think something else. I understand your political position which is from Dejton, so we say constantly productive in a way that you sign, and then the next day you say you didn't mean it. But stick to politics, stick to words and stick to signatures, if you want here in Parliament, so we can move on. We have two replicas, someone else from the U.S.A., if there is. There isn't. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10252	I would just like to say to my colleague Sokolović that if things were really the way you represent them, that would mean that you are consistent in your views whenever you talk about saving. I will remind you that you are very inconsistencies in that whenever anything called reducing public spending, even if it was institutions where people who don't even come to work are employed, you didn't support it. And that would be called, I would believe that your ambitions are like that, because if you wanted everyone here to bear the same burden of the economic situation in the country as it is, and believe me, no one can understand you well-meaningly and all they can think is that in this situation where we are now, it's an attempt to get a little vote for the next election. No Niko else can believe you, because you have to be or consistent to defend that attitude always and everywhere, not that every session has a different idea of it. So you're acting inconsistencies and I'm really asking you to bring the discussion to an end. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10253	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the agenda. We're going to point four, Ad. 4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives In accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted a bill requiring urgent consideration. I'm opening a debate on this request. Proposer? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10256	Please, if you can, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, pause for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10257	At SDA's request, 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's go in line, ask Club SDA if there's a need to explain the break, someone from the club. If he doesn't, I didn't see when we were done and we took a break to get someone to answer the line and there was no need because we didn't even open the discussion. I think this is a mistake. As far as I can tell, these colleagues aren't even here, so I'd like to give the order to discuss who answered the word. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10259	I've compared the text of the law where you're also a pronoun and the Council of Ministers and I have a feeling it's exactly the same text. There may be some changes, I haven't been able to level it all down.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10260	The words "can have" are replaced with "have a right," that's the difference. And in the last part of '31.3.' It's out, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10261	Okay. I used both texts and here I am going to say in the shortest sense what I think of this law, first of all on the legal aspect. So, if this law is passed today, members of the Armed Forces of BiH, who, on the basis of Article 48(4) of the Armed Forces Service Act, have received solutions from the Federation's Pension-Invalid Insurance and on the basis of which they have acquired pensioner status and established their pension status, that pensioner status and the right to pay will cease with 31. 3. 2012 That's all the facts. Members of the Armed Forces of BiH who have acquired the right to retire under Article 48(4) of the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of BiH, which so far have not been issued solutions by competent entity institutions or those solutions have not become legal, neither will pensioner status be established nor will they have the right to pay out pensions, neither retroactively nor in the future. And the definitive consequences of the adoption of this law would be the exercise of the rights already acquired by all former members of the Armed Forces of BiH, which the defence minister has retired under Article 48(4). The proposed law fully unfounded, unsustainable and unnecessarily directs former members of the Armed Forces of BiH to exercise their rights according to entity regulations. Members of the Armed Forces of BiH, therefore the Armed Forces of BiH, are subject to rules on civil servants in BiH institutions, and there are no entity regulations that regulate their status, nor can it be subject to entity regulation. We can expect civil servants to be treated this way tomorrow. And, in the event that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH is adopted, this category of former members of the Armed Forces of BiH, in our deep conviction, will no longer have any more rights... and no more severance, nor any other rights regarding their existential status. A brief comment. So, from Austria-Hungarian countries, none of the authorities have systematically taken people out of retirement rights if they have done so by law. There have been individual cases, but this, so from the Austro-Hungarian authorities to this day, not one single authority has systematically implemented an entire category of rights laid down by law. So, another aspect. This brings in a kind of legal uncertainty. Who's to guarantee that no one's gonna think about it tomorrow and tell them why they wouldn't cancel this for me. So one true uncertainty is introduced into the system. Here, therefore, are the reasons why we will absolutely not support this proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10262	Thank you. 31 Honored colleague Azra Hadžiahemtović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10263	Thank you, Chairman. Here, with what counterpart Belkić mentioned, let me point to a few things. The document delivered to us, inter alia, explains the reason for the adoption of this law: 'The need for the adoption of this law is based on the need to preserve fiscal sustainability.' So what causes, of course, and the question of whether, when we adopt this law, we will provide fiscal sustainability in BiH, so it might not be bad for us to hear from the promoter and answer such a question. Especially, further in the explanation it says, 'Being in mind that bh. The economy is suffering the current consequences of the economic crisis, and the wave of the crisis that has hit Europe is reflecting on it, the BiH authorities must be bold to take decisive steps towards reforms in order to preserve the domestic economy." Indeed, beyond any argument that, in the light of one such law, such an explanation is put in place with the arguments of the economic crisis. Perhaps, in this context, we welcome as the first crisis law in BiH, or anti-crisis law, which is why the Council of Ministers denies itself, because I will remind you that we have heard, we have had the opportunity to hear a statement that the Council of Ministers has no space or jurisdiction to deal seriously with the economy. Therefore, if there is no serious room for dealing with the economy, it is surprising, at least, that in one such law, it states in the explanation that it is focused on fiscal sustainability and that it represents an anti-crisis law, i.e., as it stands, that it shows a responsible relationship bh. Government to the crisis that threatens the domestic economy. Indeed, this may be the case for economists to see if after implementation, if this law is passed, there will be a stabilisation of the economic situation in BiH, incentives for economic activity, etc. I am even convinced to welcome that it is so, that it is true, that all those who will be damaged by the adoption of such a law would welcome it. And here, I can't help but recall the adopted Initiatives on Considering Economic Problems in BiH, adopted in November last year, which has never yet come to the agenda, and it might be good if proposals of this kind with such absurd arguments, as it says in this law, were considered as part of a discussion of the overall economic problem, with the Council of Ministers covering this with economic arguments, and only declares that there is no jurisdiction to deal with the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10264	Thank you. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the previous agenda, although there are a large number of colleagues who, thanks to the circumstances, became professional police officers in Dayton BiH, I could also discuss because they are similar laws, but I left this for moral reasons. I'm one of the retired officers of my army, and I know very well what this is about. 32 When it comes to this law, he also has his own political background. We didn't make it with the police what we did with the military. The BiH state has a unique Armed Forces. True, they are composed of three components but there are also similar countries in the world that have more components,... The BiH Army, the HVO and the RS Army have united and created the Armed Forces of BiH. The credibility of our soldiers has been proven internationally. You know very well that for years we've been sending our teams as Pdorish peace missions and achieving very, very nice effects and all praise for our boys who go there. Why do I mention this in the context of what we're discussing here today? BiH has a unique armed force, my lords. All internal rules, the way in which they are accounted for, the retirement system, should function as it works in every serious and normal state. I wish someone hadn't honested these words of mine so that... another. These people who have been given the law in this same House that this same parliament is now trying to simply abolish is... and it is unfortunate that the same people may be behind each other, because some have been in that term when this law was passed. To be clear, these people are looking for nothing but respect for their legally acquired rights. You remember, no one mentions here the Constitutional Court that's on their side either. I am deeply convinced that there is a political background, because two-thirds of these people belong to the Federation of BiH. It needs to cause even more chaos at the federal level, and somehow calm down your people who remain at their level, I mean RS. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but this is my profoundly logical thinking. Instead of standing all together behind our decisions, and this parliament should be unique because it is always the BiH Parliament, we should protect our own law that we have passed and protect these people who are in violation of this law that is now being predicted. We're doing the exact opposite, so I wonder why. Why did the Council of Ministers simply send us this law in the process if they knew the Council of Ministers, as a promoter, that the same parliament had passed the law that they are now trying to bring down. Somehow it has nothing to do with the logic of common sense. But it seems to me that in this country common sense seems a long time ago... And that's why I'm asking you to think very seriously about the conventions that will cause our decision if it's negative for these people. Believe me, you'll have a big problem. They have to stay with the rights they have. This parliament should reject this law and demobilised members of the Armed Forces of BiH should exercise their legal rights that this same Parliament has guaranteed, gentlemen. I publicly want to be excluded from it, and I will certainly vote against this law, for moral, ethical, and every human reason, whether it's right or wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10266	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10267	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, the guests, I will only remind myself a little, although I may be a little misusing as my predecessors are to discuss this urgent request when it comes to the bill. I will well refer myself to this emergency procedure request, which says that the request is submitted when 33 is a high degree of urgency law or a bill of law that is not so complex that it cannot be adopted or rejected completely. And here, I'm going to say my position right now, and I think it's going to be a position and a club. This is about a law that can be accepted or rejected completely. So, no intervention is possible here, because essentially this law suggests that members of the Armed Forces, soldiers, who have changed, previous laws introduced into certain rights will no longer have those rights, and instead of these rights, they are offered promises. Each one will be defined in accordance with its beliefs on regularity, the reasons for the correctness to vote or accept or reject this law. But I have to partially link this debate to the commentary's question. Nearly 100,000 people remained unemployed last year in BiH, and from the answer I received, I concluded that no one is seriously dealing with the issue. When we discussed this topic, when we passed this law, I was one of those who was also a proposing... the variants of this law, but supported this law. That's when I supported him because I didn't believe in the Ministry of Defense's promises to build a program to take care of those people who became surpluses. Two years later, there's no program, but people are proposed to be brought out of law school. I don't know what the Department of Defense has done to date, so even through these promises, I can promise to make this programme happen. So we don't have any program to take care of people, and here, we're taking them out of law school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10268	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10269	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the intensity of yesterday's political agreement, as far as I understand it, on this topic of six political parties, is to resolve this issue in a way that, unless there is no agreement to resolve this from the state level, then resolve it on an entity level, in line with the rights that have other and similar categories and, of course, at those levels as voted here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The text of the bill proposed does not guarantee that it will happen. The text of the bill that has been offered provides for the abolition of rights, does not offer funds and leaves something to solve for the future on entities. So, we practically today, if we adopt this, we abolish these rights. It remains completely uncertain what will happen next. I don't think it was the intensity of yesterday's agreement, but this comes from this text, and that's why I suggest that an emergency procedure be rejected, that this goes into regular procedure, and here I declare that I won't be able to support the emergency procedure. And if there is a vote on the very text of this law, I will not support this law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10270	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, for one simple reason, am one of those who, in the previous term, supported this law, want to protect that category of people whom we have provided with retirement and one part of these people brought into law. With this amendment to the law today we, in fact, here, have already been words so far, we're taking these people out of law school. And I in no way need to raise my hand on any such legal solution, except what we suggest from the SDA Club, i.e.. to get this back in the regular procedure. There can still be amendments here, we can fix this legal solution and in such a way remain consistent, be fair to those we have introduced in the previous term, through a legal solution, in law. Furthermore, here I am a little, also as Mrs. Azra, analyzed the reasons why this law was passed. When you read, and I would ask the MPs, all MPs to read the reasons for the adoption of this law, you get the impression that the BiH state lives in poverty, that there is no more money to finance its institutions, and that entities live in one prosperity, that they do not know what money will do, and we are now pushing this category of people to accept them, to resolve their rights, to do what we have already done. What Mr. Beriz was talking about - legal uncertainty. Who guarantees more to these people that entity governments, entity parliaments will pass this law, provide them with their right and thus provide at least part of the existence of these people in the coming time period. For these reasons, here is once again to confirm that we will not vote for this legal solution in the way proposed in the agenda. Here, we demand or ask MPs to at least through this regular procedure keep this law alive, to make certain changes, to retain the acquired rights of retired soldiers, and in such a way that we are all, in a way, satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10272	Thank you. Replica, the second deputy chairman, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10273	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to say this is a classic replica, but I really do have one question right now. In fact, I expected at the next item of the agenda that there would be some disagreements and misunderstandings, but none of us, at least within the six parties currently making up the parliamentary majority, believed that we would have disagreements at this point in the agenda. Yesterday, there was a meeting of six political parties. And this law that we are talking about has been formed, among other things, with a contribution and with a signature, which can be clearly seen, one of the leaders of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and SDA President Sulejman Tihić. According to my information, the Council of Ministers met this morning and the ministers of the U.S.A. supported this. We now hear from the MPs of the SDA a variety of remarks. I'm really asking the question, what's this all about? Did counterpart Tihić make a mistake and sign something he shouldn't have signed, so now the SDA MPs point to, or is it some other matter? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10274	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a colleague, Bećirović, who took a piece of me or a replica or a question. We here started to run a policy that we accepted that it didn't matter what color cats were but to hunt mice. Perhaps the leader's agreement is not the happiest solution, but it results, and we've all accepted it, and I can see that there are no objections, but based on the leader's agreement, we've begun to organise sessions and everything else, and today one, based on these conclusions, is one of the key sessions. Now we have, of course, a problem. And that my thesis obviously drinks water on leaders and half-liders, and it starts to create a problem. I propose that a place and space be made here in Parliament for semi-liders who obviously cannot hold to the agreement or cannot control those who need to implement the agreement. In England, they do it there with a whip, with what they're collecting, what they're ordering, what they're looking for. Give us a solution here, too. We had a deal yesterday, we had signatures, we had sessions, we had a vote. If you think this is normal in political life, I don't think it is. I guess it makes sense that someone who can't honor the agreement and who doesn't agree, which I completely understand, who disagrees with the views of a particular policy, to leave that policy, that was always the rule, and most of it, and the Council of Ministers, and everything else. In the party, the leader was always changing who could not hold to the word or who could not be respectablely represent the party, or replaced those who would not implement the agreement. It's the rules, it's nothing new. I think this is a little bit wrong by the SDA, that they've filled this side convincingly, they've certainly filled it up, they're sitting and they're not moving, and the right side is doing what it's doing. I think that these things, so I'm not talking about the reasons, I'm not talking about the essence of the problem we're discussing at all, but I'm warning you of something if it's going on that way. Here, we've made some moves, made some results that we won't, I don't know, it'll be very hard to keep working if something doesn't happen in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10276	He doesn't know what he's doing on the left, does he? Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10277	Well, we've been discussing this consistency all morning, that is, consistency under the quotes of the SDA, and we're going to have to continue in that tone. I really didn't think that at this point we would stay long, just by ensuring the agreement of the leaders, including the other leaders, and the consistent leaders, under quotes, parties and ensuring consent even at the session of the Expansive College and the College, the consent of the party, and today opening the discussion here, there can be nothing but a populist act in trying to get back at the ears of those who need to vote in the next local elections. I want to say a few things why I think the Council of Ministers has done a job that has allowed a few important things, and with all due respect, we need to apply this law which should certainly be adopted in the way that it is proposed. First, the truth is 36 that it is a preservation of the country's fiscal stability. We have here a deputy finance minister, both former and current, who, at the time when the law was passed, said it would cost $11 million. Now that we've calculated it's 270 million. The right of an entity called the Federation is to provide the benefits of a preferential retirement is foreseen here. So if the Federation thinks it can secure that part of the money, no one's denying you, Article 48 allows it. Republika Srpska believes it would bring down the pension fund and that pensioning 300 people would make it impossible to retire all those who have earned their full 40-year internship. Is it fair that by enforcing the right of one, we're destroying a whole other system? Has anyone thought about that? So we were cheated when this law was passed, with the fact that it was $11 million. Now we know it's 270 million. If we have to pay 20 million for that stupidity we've held for so long, then it's a punishment for acting like this on Parliament, but the savings are over 200 million. Another thing, the fulfillment of the principle of justice. Why would former soldiers who are two years of training and 35 years of life be in a privileged position compared to those soldiers who were in the trench during the war but who have no opportunity to retire favorably. So you want to introduce the principle of inequality. You have no right to do so and no one has the right to achieve a political goal... that was, the same reason, the elections are always close when it's being made, when you're making such proposals. And I don't think that makes sense. Why would someone have to work for 40 years, and why does the whole of Europe keep increasing these boundaries of internships so that we can retire young people from 35 years of age? Ekciplitan is the SNSD's position, and no matter how much we need... the votes won't buy votes on that. Destroy the country, dear colleagues from the U.S.A. The ones who betray you to defend her and protect her in this way are the ones who bring her down the most. And finally, the possibility provided for by the Council of Ministers in this bill for you to remain consistent in this and to continue to burden yourself with the preferential pensions of the PIO Federation Fund, so it is your right to bring it down. I have no right to influence that, but we cannot allow you to tear down the RS Pension Fund. That's why I think this law should be passed as soon as possible and forgotten about the shameful law that's been going on for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10278	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't really want to replicate it to anyone, but my esteemed and esteemed colleague, Mrs. Majkić, will understand me completely, here I am speaking very emotionally. This is where we confused the principle and the nuances. Mrs. Majkić is talking about shades, and she probably didn't understand my discussion, I was talking about principles. A professional soldier, a professional officer and a professional officer in the Armed Forces of BiH must have the same status in Banja Luka, both in Sarajevo and Mostar, I mean those three components. Also, when it comes to the retirement system, the same three have to have absolutely the same pensions no matter where they live, and I mean our entities. That, Mrs. Majkić, I was saying, 37 believe me, I didn't think about these shades that you were bringing out here. So, I want a member of the professional Armed Forces..., the RS Army, the BiH Army and the HVO, when he retires, to have the same pension, of course, by act and action he retired from, retired. That's what this is about, Mrs. Majkić, not the shades you were talking about, and I'm against it. But I ask you to keep the principle because this law dictates it. We want every professional soldier, regardless of his rank, when he retires or retires, when he gets that right, to have absolutely the same pension in Banja Luka, and in Sarajevo, and in Mostar. I think we understand each other and you won't take offense to this replica of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10280	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10281	First, I want to apologize for not being right after the break because I was in a meeting with a Turkish delegation, but I hope my colleagues explained the reasons why we were looking for a break. I want to say this. This is not about any different interpretation of the signed agreement signed by our political leader, Mr. Tihić. Therefore, it is not about any indiscipline about what the distinguished colleague Majkić is talking about. This is about principle. We introduced that population into law enforcement, and now after a few years, I'm sorry, you know, we were wrong. Then whose indiscipline it is. You have had the opportunity to analyse the law, how much this law will cost, how much the costs are in pension-inhabited funds, and how much is the cost of the BiH state in the budget. Now that that's been accumulated for two years, then, you know, that's a huge amount. Well, then I don't know whose indiscipline it's about. So, which is why you're afraid at all that we're going into a shortened procedure, it doesn't have to be regular, so that eventually we can fix this law in the spirit that this population has some kind of guarantee that they're actually going to have some kind of right, that they're not exactly driven out into the street, because they're demobilized members of the Armed Forces, they're defending this country, for at least two years, all the participants of the war. Therefore, these are the provisions of the Law that we have in our possession. In this home we also passed that law and supported, as I recall, the SNSD Club. Therefore, I see no reason why the SDA is being accused of indiscipline. We just want to be as principled as we supported two years or three years ago when this law was passed, so we behave today. What was actually happening on the Council of Ministers, I can't talk about it, because I don't have information, but, in any case, it's not offensive, so our ministers, our political party president, are essential to resolving this issue, means that funding is left to entity budgets and we don't have anything against it, right now, but we can't rule out someone's rights, so, you know, it will be if it is. We want a higher level of guarantee for these people that will be included in the rights and that way we would give support to this law, but by emergency procedure, take or leave, this what's written doesn't give any guarantee that... these people won't stay on the street tomorrow. So if this law that we've adopted earlier is embarrassing, as someone here calls it, I don't know why he's embarrassed, because they're not those people robots. They have their families, they have their needs 38 etc., we can't say you're wrong after two and a half years, we're wrong, we screwed up, we didn't know what those costs were, etc. But it's not about the costs that my colleague Majkić made, it's about much smaller amounts, and that is likely to be the case in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10282	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10283	Thank you. I want to replicate almost everyone who's discussed this subject before, so let everyone find themselves in the part that belongs to him. This is, and we all know that, a country of poor, unhappy and disfigured people, and this is just one group perhaps small in relation to the total number, and perhaps large, when it comes to a thousand and two thousand families. These people have lived in agony for over two years despite existing laws. So the state has promised them something, and it doesn't want to do it. Is the state wrong, whether, I don't know, what reasons it has given them, that's the problem of the state and that responsibility needs to be determined in the state. These people are still in agony today because they're waiting and they're crawling around like ribbons, here, for the last few months, it's going to be like this, it's going to be like this, we're going to end it, we're not going to end it. There's no reason to prolong that agony, we have no right, after all. And let me explain a little bit who these structures are. The largest number of these people were all in a trench for four years. You know what they're getting rid of today? Because they had no aunt, no aunt, no uncle, no uncle to be promoted to a higher rank. I'll explain to you that the largest number that has remained in the status of soldiers since '92. Until '96. And it's the wrong state. Should they suffer for it, is it their fault? If they had been promoted as many others who had not earned, in some acts, we would not have discussed them today. So this wouldn't be a problem. I'm talking about everyone in general, so I'm not saying this by entities, about all the people we're talking about today. So they've been derailed for almost twenty years now, because they weren't in the same position as others, and discriminated against. And I don't want to influence anyone, so let each one of these people decide whether or not they're going to take these people out of law school, end their rights, and tell them to wait until the grass grows, or they'll be against abolishing that right. It's the right of every one of us and let every one of us do it by conscience, I don't want to, and I don't blame anyone however he decides, I'll decide by my conscience by whatever anyone else thinks about it. There is no reason, because amendments to this law that is before us cannot be fixed and that we do not sow the fog on people that it is possible for amendments to happen. This is one attitude, I understand the attitude, it's only a matter of commitment. Whoever is in favor, let him support; whoever is in opposition, let him be against it, and let us finish the tape. Thank you very much. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10284	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10285	Here's another corpus delicty of the consistency of the SDA. I'll read you a transcript from the 80th House of Representatives session, held on 30. Six. 2010; Fuad Kasumović: 'Reputed Chairman, etc. The finance and vault department officially hasn't gotten this conclusion yet, we've got it, so direct connection, right, so other lines... and we're working on it right now. I'll tell you next, so in the last three years there are 120 million left in the BiH budget that we have included in the budget this year. I mean, we never spend our budget all the way. If it's 1,600,000 or 1,650,000 funds that can't be provided, but at the very least we never end up spending the budget,... I am obliged to say since we have not yet finished, no matter how many economists make the budget, the budget is a political act, the one that you here need to pass and every law or conclusion you make in the executive power is to honor it." Therefore, on the basis of the conclusion, the information of Deputy Finance Ministers is that it is 1,600,000 and 1,650,000. And Mr. Izetbegović also mentions in his speech the same figure in his speech that a decision has been made, because everyone thought what it means if it is 1,650,000, so there is no point in discussing it. When the entity funds sat down and calculated, then you could see how much money it was. And that's another evidence of the consistency of the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10286	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10287	I want to correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Mehmedović, who mentioned an agreement on the amendment law and the addition of the Law in the service of the Armed Forces of BiH. For the sake of proper information and for our colleagues here, and for the public, no political agreement was signed yesterday, as mentioned today, no agreement has been signed, nor are principles signed, or principled provisions to address this problem. What was signed yesterday is the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH in the text, so the text was signed, and here is Mr Ljubić, one of the signatories, so he can confirm, so the text from word to word that we have on the table today is signed. Even more than two adjustments made in relation to the previous text, which was referred to in the parliamentary procedure by the respected chairman, Živković, were initiated by Mr Tihić and respected. So this law wasn't signed once, it was signed twice, so... at the title where one change was made and finally. And then today we have quite the opposite attitude, which I do not dispute and it is, it has everything to do and what and how, but don't just deal with some political agreement being reached, or talk about principles, the spirit of a solution, etc. No, it was about a concrete legal solution and it has a signature on it. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10288	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10289	So look, what my colleague Magazinović said, it goes in favour of principle and democratic relations within the SDA, so we in the U.S.A. what the president signed, of course, we have the right to criticise. It's obviously not in other political parties, there's no one's right. But that's not why I answered the line. That's why I'm doing it. That's why I'm Dušanki it. Namely, she now explains to us and the stenogram found the 80th session, is it, at the 80th session, part of Mr Kasumović's discussion? Under number one, Kasumović is not a representative of the SDA policy, i.e. he does not represent the SDA. It does not represent the SDA, please, it is our minister, it implements the policy of the SDA, but it is not authorized to interpret the views of the SDA. I hope you understand me. That's number one. Number two, I don't know why you and your stenograms decided it would cost $1,650,000. No, I couldn't conclude, I would ask Mr. Kasumović, since he is present, to explain to us what is actually the matter with this number 1.650,000. I suppose he couldn't claim that this bill would weigh 1,650,000. But I'm asking you... and I don't know why it's so much resistance that this law goes into regular or shortened procedure, so let's fix it. Our goal is the same to all of us, I think, and we are not deviating ourselves from the essence of yesterday's agreement that funding goes to entities. Therefore, there is no reason for us to be afraid of anything, we will all have the opportunity to eventually correct that law and to plead on maybe amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10290	Thank you. Here, since, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has the right and ministers at any time to seek a word, it is not defined what happens to the deputies, or they must have the Minister's permission or to say the possibility to report when the minister does not attend. But since the esteemed Deputy Kasumović was called directly and quoted by his words, and asked for a word, I will give him a word to explain and hope that... he will have in mind both the time and the moment we speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10291	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I've been touched twice. It's not my goal to pollute, I usually always, my discussion takes place after the discussion, I don't want to do it, I want to explain it next. When you were talking about this law and Mrs. Majkić was reading, but she got a little speedy, so you didn't realize, I'm the only one, I remember well, still my brain serves. So, I said, we at the Ministry 41 finance and vaults didn't get that one, and we don't know how much money it is. One of you mentioned the numbers that was 1,600,000, 1,800,000, you first said that I said 11,000, etc. The bottom line is this, I said, and now I repeat, the BiH Parliament brings the budget, has the right to adopt as much as it wants, and I explained it to Mrs. Majkić and then in a fine and picturesque manner, so the funds were then, it was necessary for the MPs to adopt the budget. I've decidno said and I repeat: The finance ministry had an official position under that law that was negative, here's the minister, now your colleague, ask. When you asked me, I said and I repeat: we didn't get the bill because the Ministry of Finance doesn't make a reckoning. One of you mentioned the number, I said that we have that number 1,600,000, 11,000 in reserves, and we can pay it off. And just like I'm saying today, it means every year it stays in the budget because the state never has time or Parliament has time to adopt the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10292	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10293	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I should like to replicate to the esteemed Deputy Minister, Mr Kasumović. Mr. Živković is not the president but the speaker of Parliament, so we are the vice-president. So, of course, let's get back to the scale of things. It's been here multiple times, actually they were asked what was signed and who signed it, etc. I, as one of the party presidents who initialled and one and the other pages yesterday, together with the others, the text of this law that is here today, do not want to be here or hypocrite or demagogue, and I would like to say that we have initialled and decided to propose to our parties that the instructions in the Council of Ministers' procedure and parliamentary procedure, be aware of the responsibilities and political, but also aware of the sensitivity of this issue as well as the legitimate but social implications of this issue. On the other hand, I want to say quite frankly that I am a representative, then a member of the House of Peoples in the last meeting, supported the Law that allowed the retirement of these categories of our fellow citizens, whose issue we are discussing here today. And to be honest, it wasn't even the pragmatic political and, even, social reasons, but rather the reasons for analogy, because it was the last generation, the war generation of professional soldiers who demanded the exercise of their rights, but also, of course, I still think today is not the best solution for them or for the state. And least of all for them, because it's about people in a productive age who have something to give to this society and their family, and that, in any case, this society and all of us together and the state, at all levels, need to find ways to solve this issue in a better way than retirement, and if retirement is the only way then I think that this law, which we're going to put out today, makes it possible. I'm not a lawyer, right now, and it's familiar to everyone, but I don't understand this law in a way that these rights are abolished. So, I'm just going to read here one part of the item (1), so: 'Extremely on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence soldier who is at least two years to 23.12.'95. the year was a member of the Army of the Republic of BiH, the Croatian Defence Council or the Armed Forces of the Republic of Slovenia, which was held on 42.1.2010 in the military service and whose pursuant to Article 101(1)(c) of this Act, the service shall cease, in accordance with this law, the right to status and to receive such rights as those rights are regulated for related categories of entity regulations.’ ... Or paragraph (2), therefore, of the same article, says: ‘Determining the height and manner of payment of the compensation referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be carried out by the entity authorities, in accordance with the regulations governing these rights for related categories.’ So it doesn't even say "I can do" etc. They're already done. And the related categories have already achieved that and have not been questioned here at all, so they're troubled. Therefore, this formulation, so this syntagma of'subordinate categories', actually... has strengthened me in the belief that the question of pensioning these people will be resolved, i.e. that they have the right to be resolved and therefore the word 'can' has been deleted, in fact, to strengthen this formulation: 'they have the right to this status'. So, I say, again, I'm not a lawyer, there's certainly a lot of competent people here to interpret legal regulations, but I understand this law in a way that these issues will be settled within entities and entity regulations as it's settled for related categories. And the related categories are not troubled by this law. And ultimately, to be political now and to return this debate to the political field. We also need to remember what we find and why this law is actually in the process together with the budget. In fact, all together, the whole political constitution suggested that we wouldn't have a budget unless this law was passed. And ultimately, the political responsibility of the leaders, among which I am, here in the parliamentary six most of us must have defined that these goals, which are actually priority for BiH, for the sustainability of the entire budgets; we need to know that if the state budget is not adopted that we cannot be a credible talker in the talks on a standbay arrangement with the IMF. If a standbay arrangement with the IMF is not realised – there is a prime minister, there are the chairmans of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance – all the budgets and all the rights that are achieved on various grounds in BiH, including social ones. So here's what I needed to say, but I still think that this country, this society, is bound to solve this issue for these people in a better way than retirement. Because I'm sure those people who are young, who are healthy, some of them even generations of my older daughter, would in the morning at 9:00 or 8:00, when everyone goes to work, rather go to work than stay at home. I'm 62, when I'm not busy, when I'm over three days away, I don't feel comfortable in the morning at 9:00 if I don't have anywhere to go to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10294	Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10295	And one last line on the consistency of the U.S.A. Again, I quote the transcript, this time Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, who says, 'The costs for this year are 1.65 million. Normally, we didn't do this budget ourselves, we did it with people from the Ministry. It is indeed a modest means." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10296	Dear counterpart Dragan Vrankić, discussion. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10297	Thank you very much. Here, I'll try not to challenge any new replicas, but already there is, I hope it won't be me. Look, as someone said before, I've had a chance to put one signature on, I've put a negative opinion of the Ministry of Finance on this bill. BiH in my opinion has one single solution, it is tolerance, agreement, consensus. Politics agreed, even when the Ministry of Finance had a negative opinion on this law. I respect that, I respected it, and even, when we did the draft budget, I put it in that budget because the law says so. And until the law is passed, or this law, that position must be in the budget if we are legalists. If the policy has been re-arranged, and I see that yesterday it is, that this is going, that people are being taken out of the law, they're being derived from the law in a way that needs to be resolved, they should, you said you couldn't, but should be at entity level, then I don't see any problems. In fact, I can only see one more step. The colleagues who have a majority in the Federal Government, in the Federal Parliament, that is the SDP and the SDA, I see that they are in favour of these people, should convene an emergency session of the Federal Government and the Federal Parliament just as they were called a few days ago when they amended the Law on Amendments and Revisions, so the same day was the Federal Government and the Federal Parliament because it was appropriate for them. Now, when this suits them, gentlemen, go ahead and call the government and Parliament, get these people back to the federal level where the law de facto says they should be at that level and we've solved this problem so we don't politicize. And in the end, I respect the six-man deal, so I realized that's how they agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10298	Thank you. Dear colleague Senad Šepić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10299	Well, here's a short replica. I really want to say that in the U.S.A., we look forward to... that Mrs. Majkić is really this dedicated, that she's committed to following what we're really saying and that she's following this kind of principle and consistency. But what you may not be obliged to say is that none of us sitting here for the good part, and especially those sitting in the past term and in this current mandate, whether they were positional or opposition politicians, right now this question has no place to share any lessons about some principle, any consistency because it is clear to all of us, and those who were sitting in the past term, and especially those who are sitting right now, were sitting in the past term, that principle is quite clear. And yours too, Mrs. Majkić, because you were, as the chairman of the House of Peoples, the person who signed the signature, well signed, so on one such law and on one such decision. So I'm asking you not to waste time like this. Let me just use... about one of your examples of how you don't get in a position to make a mistake. We in the SDA just asked to sort of agree on the procedure, not to go this way in the process, but to allow us to intervene in one of these texts, the text of the law, so we don't get back into a position that after a while we admit how we did, except for the first mistake, how we made the mistake right now. I believe that in this sense you will understand this one position of SDA policy. And about principle and 44 consistency, really, to end the debate today, because we'd have a lot of space to open up, on different sides, to open one relationship, a relationship about all of this. So the SDA's position in this sense is quite clear, we're looking for space to fix the text of this agreement. The fact is that he was initialled in a certain way yesterday, but we don't think there's anyone in this country who's innocent, especially we don't think that the leaders of political parties are unmistakable, put their signature on, so that's something that can't come in any way into any revision. We think there is room to help with such an arrangement, and we are prepared to offer our constructive approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10300	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10301	Well, here, again, I'm not talking about the point, I'm talking about the situation we found ourselves in. It's no different attitude on any issue, I mean, I'm going back the way we're going to do it again. Mr. Šepić's discussion would have made sense, but two days before, but not today after yesterday's and this morning's session. And especially, I listened to Mr. Kasumović's discussion outside and I thought he would... react to what Mr. Mehmedović said. Look, we have a situation that they continue to send messages: he says he represents us in the Council of Ministers. Well, Mr. Kasumović is not part of the Council of Ministers, not, I mean, not a state for himself. That means on some next question, so wait, I expected a man to say, "I represent the policy of the SDA there." And he was elected based on SDA policy, the results of the SDA, and perfectly legitimate and legal. This message now means that new situations are being prepared in the next period, no, no, that there, we don't admit it. So when you do not confess yours, how will she acknowledge the other members of the Council of Ministers? How is it possible to work? Here, just before Mr. Vrankić said logically one thing, he can do it, he can, if he sticks to the deal and it can be realized. And what, Mr. Vrankić, if we don't stick to the deal, then how will it be realized? And here, here we are indeed, obviously, entering a situation that should be solved today by the only logical and normal SDP proposal. And I expect, during the day, a logical and normal SDP proposal to resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10302	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's incorrect for the SDA to teach us non-discipline and say we shouldn't play and change our minds. The SDS was against this law two years ago, and that's what we are today. And I might suggest that we take a break of 10 minutes because maybe the SDA will change its mind again in the meantime, because it changed it three times yesterday. Thank you. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10304	Dear counterpart Zijad Jagodić had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10305	Here, and I want to replicate both, possibly to some colleagues who have expressed their opinion. However, I really want to ask all of us: Does this Parliament think, if this law also succeeds in this House, that in a year we are again passing some new law? I truly believe it is the sons, the best sons of BiH, if indeed this number of fighters, who is retired in this way, just as confirmed in this House, are unable to get their place and ultimately guarantee their life. It reminds me just like if we passed the law today to say, MPs, we'll do nothing, because we agreed on it at one of the sessions of this House. I really believe that certain MPs want to adapt in some way to the budget, but today I can't imagine and I can't believe who will vote from MPs for such a law by abolishing the rights of a population like these fighters. I can truly say that we, certainly, representatives of the SDA party, today are completely unique and I believe that we will remain in our position as my colleagues have already stated. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10306	Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10307	... members of the College, distinguished representatives, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. I'll try to simply pragmatically say a few things. Perhaps this will help in some commitment and decision-making because, what the esteemed representative Lozančić said earlier, I think the problem is so transparent and clear that everyone has the right to vote on their own, but that no longer needs to be made of it. The fact is, the law was passed. As it was brought in, we're not going back to history, because it would all be burdened. The Council of Ministers then unanimously opposed the law, unanimously and negatively, to the Ministry of Finance. However, I also learned in the Federal Government that nothing means negative opinion and law-making without a financial basis, so it does not surprise me and I would absolutely not go back in history. I'll just take it out. This is not a law written by six leaders yesterday, and this is no agreement, I think, by colleague Magazinović earlier, and that something has been arranged and done there. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH is more than a month on the wallpaper of the Council of Ministers and we have not removed it from the agenda, there has always been a second item on the agenda, to see how the Ministry of Defence in dialogue with members of this population is looking for a solution and how to reach it. A solution was offered to write the Law on the termination of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH, which was one of the variants. The conclusion on this budget adopted by the Council of Ministers contained four points, among other things the point of termination of the Law and others. The fact is, if there are no manipulations, that regardless of this law, these people have not received the stamps so far, and I think that the best manipulation is if these 46 funds are not in the budget that are scheduled and if they are not introduced at the entity level, they cannot be introduced anywhere else. Because pension funds are at entity level and these people have to get solutions to entity pension funds. The state can't give them a solution and get something out of the budget when it's not then a pension, it can be a fee or I don't know what else. So, there was a change yesterday, as Mr. Ljubić said, in a section that was required to ensure safety and here there is no exercise of law. He had just quoted, I do not know whether Mr Ljubić or who, that in Article 48a)... and this has been amended, 'in accordance with this law he has the right to status and to receive according to this basis in the way these rights are regulated for related categories of entity regulations'. So he's entitled to where he's being introduced, and that's in the pension fund to have rights, identical rights to a related category. The funds provided for in the budget, if adopted in the budget, will be transferred from 30 million to the pension funds of entities. And those people will finally get the money. They've had nothing so far, since there's nothing in the law that's been precise. This was one repair done with full consultation and to say to the end that all leaders have signed the Law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH. We had a Council of Ministers meeting this morning. It is unanimously supported by this text of the Law without any objection, amendment. It was only now that I realized... the search for a minister when he asked for it, and it seemed to us that it was unnecessary, that simple manipulations were not being made public, he repeated it once more and asked that we all plead individually, us ten, are we... for that and the rest, so as not to be manipulated by the public. Because we had a discussion that these populations were controlled by cell phones, even the noise was left. So they'll get all the backlogs, according to this law. And first we eliminate, and we predict it in the budget, eliminate the possibility of lawsuits, tight interest and everything that goes, so it'll get everything. They'll get the entities to pay off, and at the same time they have a right, and this isn't a law enforcement. On several occasions, the exercise of rights has been repeated, this is not an exercise of rights, but an equalization with related categories. That's all I wanted to say without wanting to provoke any further. And finally, how much does this law cost? When you calculate what this law costs, it costs 12 million a year, now I think you know that it costs 12 million a year per current... The law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10308	Thank you. The second deputy chairman, counterpart Denis Bećirović, is a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10309	I respect the position of every political party in this parliament for the simple reason behind each political party is a number of votes of the citizens of our country. In that sense, I also respect the position of the SDA. But we have a problem here now. On the one hand, we have the position of the president of the SDA, who signed these amendments, and the position of the ministers of the SDA before, who voted in favour of this law several hours ago and sent him to Parliament and, on the other hand, we have the position of SDA MPs who are against it. We need to be clear about what the real position of the SDA is right now in such a situation. And the rest of us need to be clear against this situation, because this isn't just a matter of this law, this undermines the full principle of bargaining and future work and the parliamentary majority and the Council of Ministers. 47 So, on behalf of us at the SDP Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, and in the meantime, it would be good to find out what the right attitude is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10310	Comrades and fellow MPs, we have two options. So, we have to take a business break for 10 minutes, and there's a lunch break, so let's finish it, put it together. Do you agree that at half past three we start working? So by 14.30 breaks, at 14.30 we start working. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, please, I hope this break has been used, among other things, and let's discuss this point and I would like to point out that the discussion has not yet been completed. Dear counterpart Beriz Belkić reported on the replica, but also on the SDP. I'm asking if there's a need to comment on the break. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10313	I give up, Mr. Bevanda's not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10315	I wanted to be clear about the termination, not the end of the status, but here's the man, and there's no point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10316	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10317	I couldn't really resist it, since the debate has been very interesting so far and the problem is both sensitive and interesting. And through this story, on this subject, it's clear that actually, when it's abstract enough, everything can come down to two things. On the one hand, to the story of our tendency to demagogy and populistism and, on the other hand, to our story of how credible and 48 consistent we are. Obviously, the Law when it was passed had a lot of elements of pulsism and demagogy and was sold in such a form. Of course, we must not forget that the law was passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I have to mention a similar case here that was in the Federal Parliament, and it was also a similar category of people. There was literally a week before those general elections in 2006 passed the Law on rights of developed defenders. The law was unfortunately established by the Federation government, though it was revoted by certain members of the government. The law fought with common sense, was not followed by any indicators, no financial calculations, although it was clear to everyone that he was financially unsustainable or that he was only sustainable with major headaches that would follow his possible implementation. I was then in the House of People of the Federal Parliament, president of the Croatian Club. No envoy from the Croatian Club was at that session, we did not want to come out of protest to that session at which the law was passed. The law was passed, the next term, I don't know if the current chairman of the Council of Ministers who was Minister of Finance in the Federation in the next term was followed by constant concerns, problems in the implementation of the law. And every time that thing got troubled, I asked that the law had to be implemented despite the fact that I was absolutely against its adoption. It's a story of credibility and consistency. That's the other part of the story. I think we in this situation where we now have to lose somewhere. I was not in the past session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly when this law was passed, but it is the Law of the Parliamentary Assembly and must be implemented. If it is to be replaced by another regulation, then out of respect for that category of people, which he has treated and offered and guaranteed certain rights, a clear guarantee must be given that what they are promised is not empty promises, but something that will indeed be realised. HDZ BiH is not in a position to provide such guarantees. The HDZ of BiH, games that are known to all, is not part of the parliamentary majority, nor participates in the Federation-level authorities of BiH. But the parties that are must give firm guarantees that, I am talking about the Federation, I am interested in the space of the whole of BiH, but the population that interests me, in this case, will find its own solution under this legal solution that is being offered and discussed at the level of the Federation of BiH. If it can be convened within 24 hours of an extraordinary session of the Federal Parliament and the Federal Government to end the laws on the review of the rights of defenders, then if there is seriousness and consistency and respect for this category of people who have earned our respect, then the same can be done when it comes to this. And according to the assessment of whether it's real and serious or whether it's willow, I'll behave when I vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10318	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, with respect to what Mr Franjičević was talking about, let's see just once again what the essence is and why what he was talking about can't be realized in the Federation. So by this law, here's another thing I'm going to do again, we're going to abolish the rights. It leaves 49 space to the entities that these rights... can and doesn't have to. Here, if entities get into that story, what is the current situation, we have adopted entity budgets, so we can't find room in entity budgets for that right now. If it's just on the shoulders of the entity, these PIO funds in entities won't be able to... respect the decision, here's to the entity assemblies and make one such legal solution. What we're looking for here is that in the state budget funds are being provided so that entity funds can be serviced so that they can realize this thing, and then we can have this legal solution that's being taken new at the entity level at full capacity and that these people are not being deceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10320	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10321	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is one in a series of laws at all levels in BiH that has an exclusive pre-election character and for which not all the consequences of such a law can have for the future of BiH have been seen and the main one was to get votes. Votes were received, votes were also received by those who today do not want to admit that this is a problem and who do not want to take over their part of the responsibility. So, this category of BiH citizens has been used for a shorter period and are then left to themselves and I think it is high time we stopped treating the citizens of this country as single-use rags in BiH. And in this case, members of the Armed Forces, which we're talking about today, they were and they're still that. If there had been rational thinking and there was a vision of how these people's status was solved, this law would not have been passed, nor would we have this problem today. It is the easiest way to place people in social categories, to buy in such a way social peace, and that is why we have a situation where today in BiH we invest tens and more times as much money to reconcile different obligations on these grounds, pensions, fees, etc. than we should invest in what we should invest in, and that is the country's economic progress. If we spent this much energy, knowledge and effort in BiH to improve the conditions of business in BiH and to improve economic opportunities in this country, we would not have these problems. It is extremely hypocritical to bring people into law, give them certain rights because of one initiative, and then when it passes people take that right or give them less right, etc. It is simply not a solution and the question is how much longer we will be able to play with the citizens of this country. The question is how much will we be able and how much will the police force be able to protect this space between Parliament's building and the people who are protesting there. And the question is whether they too, as we treat them, will turn around and go along with these people that in other ways, which I do not call upon and do not want, but that in other ways solve my status and my problems. And believe me, no matter what the ministers and others in the area of security assure us, it's not far either. Unfortunately, it's not far. You can't squeeze people, you can't drag them around forever and expect people to take it. It'll have to break sometime, and when it cracks, it'll be uncontrollable. So, at the very least, what should be done today is not to end the debate on this law, but to continue the dialogue and try to find 50 common positions in order to resolve this issue in the right way and to resolve it in a way that all those who were actors of these events take their part of responsibility for it. When there was a vote on this law there was no support for any political party or mine. The MP who was here at the time in Parliament said to me that he voted for reasons not to be considered an opponent of these people, because such an climate was made. And what did we get today? Today we've got a problem, today we've got dissatisfied people to whom we've given one right, so now we want to take it, so we're going to transfer it to federal, or entity levels. There people are not ready to accept this problem, because budgets and funds have been programmed, etc. So it would be best if we didn't end the discussion of this problem, try to come up with a common solution and make the easiest possible transition from this situation into a state that will be acceptable. Of course, we can certainly observe the situation. Niko of us think it's normal for a man who's at his best to take a pension and have someone else wear it in the next 30, or I don't know how many years, on his back. But these people were supposed to have an alternative, so they had to find another solution. It was the easiest thing to do. So what do we get now? We've got a problem that, honestly, I feel like we don't know each other and we can't handle it. And the other thing, therefore, is to break people's rights with this date, which is listed in these amendments, I don't think it's good, that people should consume those rights at least by the end of this fiscal year, and that from the next year it would be normal to solve it and it would be realisticly possible to solve it because when planning budgets and entities and states etc. I think it would be most realistic if this story ended the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10322	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the House, Mr. Milorad Živković, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10323	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, we have all been witnesses since the defence reform was passed here and the laws in Parliament, that we have all boasted about this reform. And in a story with the international community, we said it was the only really successful reform in BiH because it had a political interest as well. You are interested in increasing the stability of this country, when there were three armies, but we also talked about economic interest. We have done this first interest, and we all agree that we have made good progress in that direction, but on the economic interest of defence reform, it seems to me that we have not yet gone far. We were talking about that from the budget of all entities allocated to the military, this BiH-level budget for the Armed Forces of BiH will not be greater than a simple collection of these budgets. But he got bigger, and it got much bigger. I hope now that we're solving military property, we'll cut the cost of defense and protection. But I also ask you why members of the presidency cannot agree and sit down and give this parliament and this country proposals to go towards reducing the Armed Forces of BiH, as all indicators say this country cannot manage to finance 10,000 troops. At the same time, all the money that would be saved in that savings could be used and given hope to these people we're talking about today and the rights we're giving them, because we're not a spare soldier, nor do we have in the reserve of any employee. And under the law, I remind you, 50% of BiH's Armed Forces, of 10,000, could mean 5,000 could be in reserve. 51 Why does no one talk about this possibility of reducing, saving, economic behavior and opening and that possibility that this law gives us, so that these people could be in the reserve tomorrow and daily help this country, whether they are floods, whether they are earthquakes, whether they are fires and other disasters that are daily, where we watch how they help in that space. There are possibilities but there is not enough will or will in the Presidency to discuss and propose to the Ministry of Defence and to this Parliament how these problems can be solved. So let us also consider this aspect of helping these people. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 (second reading) At the 27th session, held on 10 May 2012, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report 23. 5. In 2012. The Commission adopted nine amendments that, if adopted by law, become an integral part of the law. In accordance with Article 118(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the amendments to the plenary phase again defends: the SDA MPs' club (11 amendments), MP Božo Ljubić (one amendment), MP Mato Franjičević (one amendment), MP Niko Lozančić (five amendments) and MP Mirza Kušljugić (one amendment), and MP Drago Kalabić (seven amendments). I'm opening a debate. The law is in second reading, we discuss practically amendments. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10325	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, ministers, guests, media representatives, I would only have a brief discussion about this budget to say that we as an opposition believe that the draft budget is bad, that we did not participate (in drawing up this budget), but there are certain things I would like to set before the debate. Since there is no chairman of the Council of Ministers, I would ask the Minister of Finance: Does the failure to adopt this BiH budget mean that there is no local elections in 2012, that there is no signing of an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, that there is no census, that there is no funds for the Agency for the Prevention and Prevention of Corruption? Does this mean that BiH cannot move towards the European path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10326	Thank you. 52 Here is the finance minister, I hope he will listen to the MPs and eventually give answers to these questions. Dear colleague Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10327	Well, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in order for the SDA to be principled and consistent, it has remained with its amendments, and I will briefly go through the content of these amendments that you, I hope, have all gotten on your benches. Unfortunately, these amendments have not received the necessary majority on the Commission, but let me briefly say that we have 11 amendments. There are two of them on the income side, and we have nine amendments on the expenditure side. I'll try to be brief, I won't come in because you all have these arguments. As far as the revenue side is concerned, SDA lawmakers believe that income should erase receipts from the sale of the "Maršal Tito" barracks of 7,200,000, as these revenues should belong to Canton of Sarajevo, or the University of Sarajevo. This is amandman I. amandman II.. Increase income from the Single Account Office for indirect taxation for the financing of BiH institutions by 47,065.103 marks, so that income from the Single Account of the Directorate for indirect taxation for the financing of BH institutions is 797,065.103 KM. Before I go on the dissipative side to say that we have also had certain remarks on the Finance and Budget Commission for the reduction of the amendment phase and that we have had fundamental remarks on the adoption of the fiscal framework, because we believe that it has not been adopted in accordance with the Law. It is likely that through replicas we will also touch certain provisions of the Law that we consider to have been broken. I return to the expenditure side of our amendments, where amandman I. of 18,526,206 KM to be provided to the BiH Ministry of Defence means these additional funds, which are allocated to the codes you have ahead of you, means at 6,11100 – 3,820,591 KM, where it is precisely explained that additional funds are needed for both salaries and fees. Then, at code 611200 – 436.200 KM for employee costs. Here is a brief explanation that additional funds are part of the cost of receiving 284 soldiers II. Class. The third code is 613300 – 1.286.300 KM for expenditure on energy and municipal services. You have a detailed explanation. Code 613400 – 3.346.000 for the purchase of material. Let me just point out that there are 1,000 sets of official uniforms and the purchase of manoeuvre ammunition here. Code 613700 – 2,164,000 for current maintenance expenditure. These are the funds needed for the ongoing maintenance of demining machines. Code 821300 – 3,608.115 for the purchase of equipment. At 821600 – 3,865,000 for reconstruction and investment maintenance. And amandman II., which is related to our previous discussions and previous legislation, that the BiH Ministry of Defence should be provided with additional funds of 9,293,400 KM. These are the means to release persons by 31 December 2012 according to current coefficients, i.e. to ensure the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, concluded on 31 December 2012. 53 amandman III. The State Agency for Investigation and Protection shall be provided with additional funds of 1,057.044 KM for the following needs, according to codes 611100 – 657.044 for gross payments and compensation, you have an explanation. Code 613900 – 300,000 for contractual and other special services. And code 821300 – 100.00 for the purchase of equipment. These are the means necessary for the purchase of the necessary vehicles. Amendment IV. To the BiH border police, we have provided additional funds of 3,600,000 and for the following needs, and we have distributed them by code. I'm taking care of the weather, so I'll be a little faster. amandman v. (Foreign Service) To provide additional funds of 87,919 for the purposes shown in code 613100 and code 613500 and code 613900. Amendment VI. (Forensic Studies and Arts) Ensure additional funding of 1,300,000. Code 821200 – 300,000 for the purchase of buildings and code 821300 – 1,000 for the purchase of equipment. Amendment VII. (Dedication for the Coordination of Police Authorities) Provide additional funds of 1,853,649 KM for the purposes shown in codes 611100, and code 613400, and code 613500, and code 821300. amandman vi (The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees) Provide additional funds of 6,000,000. I'll read the explanation here in detail. It means: 'an additional amount of 6,000,000 is necessary because BiH must give these funds as its distribution in 2012 so that it can receive donation funds at the International Donor Conference, held in Sarajevo on 24 April 2012. 'years.' Amendment IX. – which means it does not disrupt the fiscal framework, that is the economic code 614200, aneks vii.. Dayton Peace Agreement – The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to increase by 1.241,766,20 KM. The reason is that additional funding can be provided by reducing fees on the axis of commissions, committees and other labour bodies of 60%. This is a brief review of our amendments. We expect a democratic debate and expect at least part of our amendments to be accepted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10328	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10329	I will try to be as brief as possible, because we expressed our views at the last session when we talked about principles and made an argument as to why our budget is not acceptable to us, of course, understanding the full need for budgeting. But when you have 17 months of temporary funding, when you have the counter-constitutional adoption of the Budget, retroactively, as you would say to the CCI in 2011, then you don't have to be surprised when you get into a position that you're not in a position to fix things through the amendment phase. All these amendments I've seen, and they've been on the Commission, and they've been repeated, the largest part of them are going in the direction of repairs, and it's going in the direction of correction for the better, so to speak, the biggest part of the amendment. But I realized, looking at the structure of these amendments and so on, I realized that the people of the RS have precisely established the upper limit, that's 950,000 and a point. When you look at that amount from the Central Bank, which is a major failure of the proposing of this budget, which is not included in the phase...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10330	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10331	No, no, no, the funds, Mr. Dugandžić, came to the vault's expense before this draft budget was established in the presidency. So you knew you had 2.5 million. You should've intervened in the Presidency to get the Presidency to install it, not to get through commissions and some other ways to do it, but it doesn't matter. But those 2.5 million are reduced other types of income, so that you don't get 950,000 don't let Bog pass. The 7,200,000 I spoke of, when I spoke about the principle of the comprehensiveness of the budget, I respect and welcome Mr Sokolović's initiative, but this parliament has tasked the Council of Ministers to propose to this parliament how the 7,200,000 should be used. And that story lasts a few years, Mr. Špirić knows exactly what it's all about. So at this point, we have no situation at all or directed at this Parliament's decision where they are going. She can only be on someone, in my opinion, a transitional account. When I was talking about the principle of comprehensiveness, I was thinking whether or not we should go to amendments, etc., but it's not our job. It's your job, it's the government's job to bring in the budget and to determine the priorities that we've been talking about and which clearly are not recognizable in this budget proposal. So the coverage of 20, cca 20 million stands at the expense of "The Official Journal of BiH". It is 100% owned by the BiH Public Enterprise, the Council of Ministers manages etc., according to the Management Board. Why didn't they take that 20 million? But even if they were taken, it wouldn't have gone past 950,000 million, but it would have reduced some other items again and remained on it. So it was an approach. And when you have a start-up approach that has strong instruments to defend that approach, you don't have a great opportunity to do that. And of course, then there's a series of other things, a condition, this law on soldiers in the Armed Forces and a series of other things. I fully understand the positions of those who have concerns, great care and for the elections, and for the census, and a number of other things, I totally understand it, but you can't and there's a line below which man can't. So 17-18 months is this country on temporary funding, no one was particularly excited. The budget came in 2011, and in 2012, it doesn't matter, and now in May, so half a year has passed, we have one kind of, so to speak, ultimatum take or leave. 55 So we are in a position that we are not responsible for adopting the budget and we will be against this budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10332	Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10333	Well, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to conduct a debate through the draft and give all our views on the budget. We of the SNSD Club have also made certain remarks that we have had here, but we are committed to bringing the budget primarily because of BiH, because of its road to the EU, because of its commitments, because of the rise in the ratings that has fallen to our lowest level. For this reason, we weren't even firm in our views to say, "That's the principle under which we will not come from the RS so easily." We had first one framework agreement that was 905,000 thousand to stay at that level, we agreed to make that framework now 950,000 million million. I think there's a certain tolerance. I'm not going to say now that social policy and economic development are in entities, not at BiH level. For these reasons, I think there's been a certain increase in the budget, and what we talked about last time is that there's still room where certain savings could be found, especially through a reduction in the number of employees, not to mention them here, in institutions that are now too bulky. The SNSD club has re-renovated, proposed amendments. amandman I. to delete Article 3a. Since you've got it all, I won't, and you've got the explanation of this amendment, there's no need for me to read all the details, but mostly the point is that, since there's been a reduction in the base for the salary calculation by 4.5%, that's why this relationship and the reduced expenditure need to be changed. Also, it was already planned before 291 persons in BiH institutions, but some of them are employees, then it would create a problem and could not have these results, could not have been made the receptions necessary for certain institutions and institutions, for the census and certain activities needed... For these reasons, we propose not to accept that amendment again. amandman II. The BiH Ministry of Defence to increase the budget by 1,000 mark. We felt that this was necessary for the Ministry of Defence because they had an international exercise "Joint Resistance in 2012" and that they needed these funds of 500,000 marks. The other 500,000 marks are proposed to give the opština of Glamoč directly, giving the opština a solution to the issue, i.e. to improve the situation by destroying mines and mine-explosive funds and that population. Here's my colleague Majkić said that we have there both tragedy and accident, that people get hurt, that it's kind of trying to stimulate it, to sort out the space, and to create conditions that people can come back to normal and that they can live there. For these reasons, we suggest that 500,000 marks be transferred here. Amendment III. We suggest that 300,000 marks be transferred to the State Investigation and Protection Agency. This is why... what is necessary for the costs of special investigative actions at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. And last amandman iv.e. (although some of these amendments may, according to technical details, deserve to be broken down into several amendments, I hope that services will do so) – it is that 56 Council of Ministers are given a special decision to authorise, chair and vice-presidents, for the intervention use of 4% of the amount of the current reserve in the shown range of revenues per budget user. The use of these budget reserves for new employment, for which the funds are not provided by this law, would exclusively be approved by the Council ofminsitarians. On behalf of the Club, I call on you to support these amendments and regardless of their outcome, the SNSD will vote for this budget because we believe that it is necessary and that it is very important at this time to continue our path towards an application for EU membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10334	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10335	I have again tabled an amendment that seeks to correct one of the illogicalities and unprinciplelity contained in the Budget Proposal, which concerns the reduction of the compensation for a separate life by 25%, as proposed by the text of this budget. In fact, we have to start with some findings that I hope are not controversial to anyone. It is one thing that BiH institutions are indeed all BiH citizens and that they should be equally available to all BiH citizens, and that the fact is that BiH institutions, which are located in Sarajevo, are still few cities, that the very fact that an institution is located in some place should not be an obstacle to anyone who meets legal and professional conditions that can work in those institutions in a socio-economic sense. That's why there's a fee for a separate life. I treated this amendment, not all who have the right to compensation for a separate life, so I did not attack on the reduction of that fee by 25% for everyone, but only for the tenants and state officials who work in BiH institutions. I wasn't principled to the end, but here you are, and sometimes I have the right to succumb to populism, right? So, with this 25%, one-quarter reduction in this fee, obviously the burden of saving, which is imperative, and which no one reasonable, whose need no one reasonable will dispute, is not distributed equally, but is arranged so that some categories will load significantly more than others. If the wage reduction is equal to 4.5% and equally applies, it does apply equally to all or some of the other savings provided for in this budget, this savings introduces the principle of inequality in this budget, and therefore it is necessary to intervene in this way and I am doing so right now. In addition, no other effects of such intervention are negligible, such a reduction of this fee for a separate life can be achieved and will be achieved. Work in BiH institutions for all those... whose place of residence is far from where these institutions are located, I repeat, is grossed by Sarajevo, will be less and less desirable for such people. I call on you once again to consider whether we need such effects, whether this is also the way to change the national structure of the BiH institutions, and whether it may have been the right goal for someone to try to get through something like this under the savings company. I appeal to lawmakers to support this amendment, because it is ultimately aimed at eliminating inequality in the treatment of BiH citizens, when it comes to this right. 57 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10336	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10337	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate in the second reading, so the debate on concrete amendments, and I am pleading that this House accepts the amendments of the SDA in order to put the SDA in a position to support this budget. Without those amendments, we won't be able to support this budget in the second reading. And not wanting to repeat my debate, which I had when we talked about the principles of this law, or the budget, let me say only the basic provisions and settings and the discussions: 1,028.000,000 budget in 2011; 950,000 budgets in 2012, and that year in which the funds are planned for the census, for the elections, for these border crossings, the reduction of salaries, so that when this difference is taken and summed up what was planned at the level of last year, it was somewhere between 150 and 180 million marks of the budget this year should be bigger than last year's budget. And we were ready to adopt that budget last June, July or September of 1,028.000,000 and only because of these questions concerning soldiers, the budget was not adopted. And suddenly, so the budget by almost 20% is lower than in 2011. This is something that is unacceptable and unacceptable is this fiscal framework, 950 million to fissify the state for the next three years, and predicts the growth of revenue from indirect taxes this year by over 4 percent, in the next year by over 5 percent, in the year after that by over 6 percent, and for all that time, the state is left at a level of 950 million. These are actually the reasons and we suggest at least 47 million, which is, in fact, 7 million is a reduction on this revenue side for these assets belonging to Canton of Sarajevo related to the sale of the Maršal Tito barracks and 40 million for these institutions that Fazlić was talking about. It's not a big sum. If there's any good will to come out, then we can find a solution. And just one more thing about this budget. I would like to introduce you to the communiqué of the Peace Implementation Council, to remind you in fact of one of the points that says that, noting that there is much more to be done to allow BiH to continue progress, including progress on the path of European integration, the Management Board has called on the leaders in BiH to immediately take the following: (a) to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc, (b) to adopt all of this,... The global fiscal framework for 2012-2014 and the state budget for 2012 will ensure the full functioning of institutions at the state level and meeting international obligations of BiH, and c) to agree on a functional coordination mechanism among different levels of government on issues related to the EU, etc. 58 So, this communiqué is the result of a meeting of the Peace Implementation Council of 22 and 23. The fiscal framework in BiH has been adopted significantly earlier, but here it is indicated that a comprehensive Global Fiscal Framework for 2012-2014 and a state budget for 2012 that will ensure the full functioning of institutions at the state level and the fulfilment of international obligations of BiH. I would like to interpret that the Peace Implementation Council is also aware that a fiscal framework has been adopted that does not make it impossible for the state to develop normally, as well as that we have before us this budget that does not also prevent normal development. I'm interpreting this and I've only read this as a contribution to this discussion. So I call once again to consider the amendments to the SDA that carry 47 million, so 40 actually on the income side, because 7 is one of that barracks and then to bring the SDA into a position to support this budget. Otherwise, we will vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10338	Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10339	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, every time a debate on the budget is held in any parliament, as many advocates as possible, and as many budget solutions as possible and different possible solutions. Everyone from their perspective and everyone from their own interests, because the budget is also an expression of the political interests of those who adopt it. Realising that BiH really needs the budget, not that it needs it, but that it is necessary to make a budget, aware of how much the price is if we miss that opportunity, I will try to defend one number of my amendments, and I will immediately say whether any of them will be accepted or not, because of the price that we would all pay together if we don't get the budget, I will support it, and I believe that the HDZ Club of BiH will also support the draft budget, whatever it is, with amendments, without amendments. I would also like all of us, as far as possible, to think in at least a similar way when it comes to individual or collective desires, both MPs and club representatives, not to behave or be my way or it won't be, but let's see, here's to try to find a compromise. We are also aware that this proposal, which we have before us, is the result of multiple compromises, and I am inclined to agree with all those who have debated, and that there is a need to increase the fiscal framework, and that we have this fiscal framework, and on the revenue side, and on the expenditure side, but it means, when it's all complicated in this document that we now have, it's a sum of some, how many, real opportunities and compromises that have been established to come to this budget proposal. I am sorry that at this point there are no officials, so to speak, neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers, nor the Minister of Finance, for one reason, I think that we have missed the opportunity all together, means first of all the Council of Ministers, and then we, the sooner the debate on this budget, have not discussed in Parliament a proposal for austerity measures that the Council of Ministers should have done and delivered at Parliament's approval, because I think there would be much less dilemma for all of us then. Different interventions, 59 different proposals came because, we heard, someone more someone less, there's a program of some savings but we don't understand which, how and how. And then for that reason, since we don't know full and real information, there's a need for each of us to intervene the way we think we intervene. And I'm going to go right now and say, hoping that today, we have two drafts on the pay law agenda, hoping that both of these laws will be passed, it may be an opportunity for us to adopt this budget. So here's the point, let's get into a stenogram, a suggestion to the Council of Ministers. After we adopt these laws to make a detailed analysis and to enter into the process, what some have proposed at that point of the bill on wages, in the revision of the coefficients, means in the revision of the coefficients. We can't and I don't agree that only the co-efficients of the MPs are being observed separately, but I absolutely agree to the revision of all the coefficients contained in the Payments Act. I think that by reviewing and modifying, then based on a serious debate, we could come up with a solution that many of us advocate here, which concerns the idea of a tendency to all equally bear the burden of the crisis. Which means that in that revision, it is possible to reduce these coefficients more significantly, and leave these lower, or increase a little, so that we can balance the total receipts a little bit, so to say, of all those that are financed from the budget, so that then the austerity measures can really all of us defend against all of those we explain that we have to save and pay. Here, hoping, means that the Council of Ministers will soon come forward with such an analysis and with advances on Parliament, I will try to explain these amendments. Amendment I to the detachment, let me say the implementation of Annex VII, for a space in the Varesh municipality, which is otherwise one of the most underdeveloped parts of BiH. How else in the budget, at least for the time being, there are no intended funds for that item, and otherwise in space, I have called it the entire central Bosnia or, to say more precisely, the electoral units from which I come, there is no brand of investment from the state budget, and you will agree that at least through the purchase of space in Banja Luka, Sarajevo, East Sarajevo, Mostar, etc. One part of the funds from this budget will be channelled into these environments, so here, and for this fairness of some sort of distribution, and at least one part of the funds will be invested in this process of sustainability of return, I suggest and ask all of you to support my amandman I. amandman II.. is a similar category and it concerns intervention in one of the monuments of BiH's cultural and historical heritage, a zero category, which is in a very, very critical state. BiH has a Commission dealing with this protection, and I believe that even on such intervention occasions, it should show a concrete interest in preserving those monuments. Amendment III. is essentially the finding of funds on certain items for these first two amendments. Now I come to Amendment IV. And V, I'll explain them in a package. The idea of these amendments was that through savings in certain positions we would create assumptions that it would not have to go to a reduction in salaries for BiH-funded employees. Since the adoption of one part of the amendments through the commission phase has violated the concept, and I do not really have the opportunity to make any further calculations, calculations and timetables by budget users, and in order to question the feasibility of amandman iv.e, especially given the already existing Council of Ministers decision that defines the basis... pays, which has nothing to do with the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions itself, I am asking here that the Council of Ministers consider this idea that I mentioned earlier, means that it sees the structure of all the coefficients and see that through this way we ensure fairness in savings. And in order for this amendment to not be realistic right now, in order not to waste any time, I will withdraw amandman iv.e. And amandman v. I also pass on to the Council of Ministers to see through this analysis where it may be necessary to make sure that there is no reduction in wages and that they resolve it by their decision. So I'm pulling IV. and V. Amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10340	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll do it briefly because my colleagues at the Club have explained the amendments, but here I will take the opportunity to say once again that we in the SDA consider this fiscal framework to ensure the stagnation of the BiH state. What we want is to develop BiH through the institutions that exist in it. That is why we have tabled these amendments. Their value is somewhere around 50 million KM and if our colleagues do not support us here, then for these reasons we are not ready to support the BiH state budget, because here I repeat again, he does not have that development component. And I wanted to give this particular undertone one more time, even though Mr. Fazlić said, an explanation for amandman vi. and amandman IX.. So, amandman vi. concerning the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, it is providing additional funding of 6.5 million marks in the ministry, so that these funds collected at the International Donor Conference held here in Sarajevo could be withdrawn. I think if we don't want to stop the process of going back, we should adopt it, we should have those resources, and we can finally get into the realisation of the return business and that one day we can say that aneks vii.. The Dayton Peace Agreement is over. I mean, if we don't do it and put a brake there. These eight amendments, mostly all essentially, affect resources from the Single Account, however, the wider fiscal framework. However, Amendment IX, the last meaning of the amendment in our written text, is an amendment to which we want to withdraw some of the funds planned in the budget, which were in the previous budgets as well as in this budget, which is, in some ways, an amendment to the savings, concerns fees based on commissions, committees and other working bodies in the institutions of the BiH state. I'll remind you, for those of you who don't know, that in 2011, more than 2 million KM were paid on this basis. This year, so in January-April, more than 637,000 KM has already been paid. We're in Amendment IX. propose that part of these funds, which are planned to be paid in commissions, committees and other working bodies, be reduced by 60%, and we have calculated around 1,250,000 KM here to get out of that economic code and, here, we have specifically suggested that they be part of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, specifically the Return Fund. We believe that this is one moral thing, that all those who during working hours, who have been paid for it, participate in the work of these committees, are in fact working part of their working time, to see how much they spent in 2011, spent on some parallel work that is 61 financially paid, and mostly in these commissions are ministers and their deputies, some friends, colleagues, friends on a political or other line. And specifically, here, since he is the finance minister here, I would ask him, if he were to take a word at the end when we all finish this story, to specifically tell us how much he is a member of the boards and how much he receives on this basis, so you will see on this example, if he tells us, how many of these parallels in relation to the salary, which he receives, provides additional funds, and then we enter into the creation of some budget of the BiH state and then, what I said last time, of those small people who have small salaries, we reduce them and what they have to allegedly save the state of BiH, so that this fiscal threat doesn't occur, etc. Here's for these reasons once again, if these eight amendments extend the fiscal framework, amandman IX.. and amendments to the corrections, savings, I would ask all MPs to at least amandman the IX., unless they want to accept these other eight, accept as one good offer from the SDA that this 2012 budget be, let's say, a little bit and moral compared to those of certain findings that I've been making so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10342	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10343	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman, the first reading was an opportunity when we could talk about the budget in full, its principles and all its points. And at this point, I just want to say so much that this budget was... delivered by the Presidency and prepared by the Council of Ministers, in accordance with a political agreement in BiH that could also be achieved in accordance with the country's economic and fiscal potential. It was delivered here to the Parliamentary Assembly to try to make it better and finally adopt it. I would like to say here, here is as one of the representatives of the political parties who spoke yesterday, but the budget was a very serious topic and the most serious topic, that at a meeting of political party leaders we tried to reach compromise solutions that would allow this budget here in Parliament to receive the broadest possible support, including at least six parliamentary majority parties. So it is also discussed in this sense that one option was not to violate the important budgetary framework and not to violate the commitment we had already adopted, which concerns the determination here in BiH to reduce wages in the administration, so one of the proposals was to make to police and security agencies at the level of the state, from these amendments submitted by colleagues from the U.S.A., to accept and adopt funds concerning material resources for the equipment of the SIPA, the Border Police, etc. of some 6 million and about 6 million funds for the needs and resolution of refugee issues, precisely so that we could have these basic funds for the use of donor and credit funds, which would therefore mean around 12 million, whether this is an increase in the budgetary framework, whether it concerns internal redistribution. 62 No matter what we have today, here, reduced around us, it seems to me that we are doing some more important procedures in the budget, I am here using the opportunity of the presence of the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and their associates to reconsider these matters once more, but I also appeal to my fellow Members in Parliament to be open to compromise proposals in order to still get the budget with the widest possible support. Therefore, knowing that the budgetary framework is not possible to change except marginally and also convinced that, within this budget, some important items can be satisfied in a better way than in this proposal, I have also invested the amandman that was sent in time to the Committee on Budgets and Finance. Unfortunately, he didn't get the support, so I decided to rebuild it. The amendment refers to part two, row 23. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, kind of expenditure: liquid grenades; position: financing rights from Annex VII. Dayton Peace Agreement, return of exiles and refugees, economics code 614200. Instead of the amount of 1.500,000 KM to plan the amount of 6,500,000 KM, it means an increase of 5 million. In accordance with Article 10 of the The law on the BiH institutions' budget to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions, which planned to reduce the amount of 20 million KM by 5 million KM and reroute the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to position: financing the rights of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. In my explanation, I'd like to point out a few things. The revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly under the Dynamic Plan of the 2014 Framework Programme, needs to ensure a total of around 1.2 billion KM. Since the adoption of this Revised Strategy, 655 million KM has been necessary so far, out of which 248 million KM funds have been planned for 2012. As is known, the funds were not secured during the previous budgetary period. On the one hand, this parliament adopted a recommendation that the funds for the purposes in question should be secured, above all, by increasing the budgetary allocation of all levels of government, and, on the other, the allocations from year to year to year. In addition, at its 45th session, held on 4.2.2009, this parliament adopted a 'Finishment on the need for an additional loan debt of 400 million KM'. It is known that in a recent procedure, the competent ministry has provided certain credit funds, primarily from the Council of Europe, the OPEC, the Saudi Development Fund, in a regular procedure. It is also known that the Donor Conference provides for certain funds from which BiH could use some 166 million KM. In terms of the above, I believe that, in line with this Parliament's adopted strategy, and with our political and I would say a moral obligation to implement the Dayton Peace Agreement, it would be necessary to provide additional resources in this item in order to make effective use of these donor and credit resources. It is known that certain countries such as Turkey have promised certain credit funds through business banks, I think certain agreements have also been signed. It is known that banks are looking for certain guarantees. It is also known and it is clear that refugees have nothing to guarantee, whether they have no property, or they have no way, and I don't think that this country, at any level, I'm saying that these have to be the only state institutions, should help these people to use these favourable credit funds for the purpose of returning. Why did I suggest that those funds be taken, that 5 million, from Article 10, so on capital expenditure. So look, let's adopt this budget half this year. As I recall, no funds have ever been used because of complicated tender procedures, and I fear that this 63 years will not be all used for procurement, although I believe it is necessary because the commitment of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers to finally get our institutions into our own premises and that no more large rents are paid. Therefore, I would beg to think about it. It seems to me that amandman vi. The U.S.A. revolves around similar numbers, I don't know if it's an operation from the same item. I want to say here this way: I will support... the amendments that correspond with this amendment. No matter what the fate of this amendment will be, I will support the budget, because we believe that BiH needs a budget, and I spoke about it during the previous debate when we talked about the Law amending the Law in the Armed Forces, because without budget, we can't step forward towards the EU. Without budget, there is no adequate funding for BiH institutions. Without budget, there are no negotiations successful with the IMF on the standbay arrangement. Without the state's budget, the entity's budgets are at stake. Therefore, here I am pleading at this moment on all here, and on the members of the Council of Ministers and also on us MPs, to be open to agreement and compromise to the extent that he is at this point possible and to adopt the budget today. Thank you very much. Next is Honorable representative Mirza Kušljugić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10344	Dear Chairman, I'll speak to you very briefly. In the debate we had last time, I explained the reason on which I proposed an amandman that was not accepted on the Commission, so I sent it back to the procedure as a proposal. But after consulting with the Ministers of Civil Affairs and Finance, I am withdrawing this amendment and making a proposal for a conclusion that is in the same spirit, so that I would not explain but would just read it. The proposal is to "indemnify the Council of Ministers of BiH to find the possibility of locating an amount of 200,000 marks at 614300 to prepare a project programme for the EU Fund for Research and Development Projects FP7". I wouldn't explain it anymore, because last time I said reason, it's a basic idea to start in our budget to put these items in. And just for a reminder, the first chapter that we're going to negotiate is going to be culture, education and science, and I think it's a good thing we're going at least one step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10345	Thank you. There are no more reported representatives for the hearing. I would give an opportunity to a representative of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance or the chairman to show about certain issues and certain proposals. Here you go, Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10346	Gentlemen chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members, I will only be brief. There was a first question (i am grateful to my colleague Đugum for asking), 64 'unless the budget is adopted, is there a list, is there a choice, is there an arrangement with the IMF, is there a European path to BiH?' I have to say that here all day we've been sitting in the chair and I've been talking to the IMF mission, and I don't think there's going to be a budget-free arrangement with the IMF, there won't be any incentive funds for the European Commission's macroeconomic stability, because we've talked to them today, there won't be any funds, of course, to prepare the census, because they're not, so there won't be no budgets, there won't be funds related to the census and hence the election commission's warning. For all these other amendments, I can state my personal position, but that's not the Council of Ministers' position. I think we should do everything today to get to the budget. And I think we did everything in the Council of Ministers to get to the widest dispute that could be achieved. No Niko is too pleased, I say right now, with this budget, but this is a budget that will not endanger any Euro-Atlantic project of BiH, it will not endanger any institutions. In fact, funds have been provided for new institutions, such as the Anti-Crime and Corruption Agency and new agencies or commissions stemming from legal projects. On other issues that have been asked myself, I have been elected as finance minister, there are places where the finance minister... a member, not because Nikola Špirić wants to. And these are the costs that are tied up and have both the entity ministers and the state minister before me, so nothing came up with me, and I can think of something for myself and suggest myself somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10347	I thank the Minister of Finance, Mr Špirić. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. 6 Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) The consent report you received. The college as a commission has not reached agreement. Today, we declare ourselves in the second round on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions in the second reading, and there is no debate on this point. Point 65 Ad.7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH Institutions (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10351	I wish we'd heard, I may have been hasty to answer, but here I am ready if the President of the Commission needs to further explain to us the motives and reasons of those who voted against this law, so we have some way more information. But here, I can say my opinion without it. So for me, this negative opinion is unfortunately acceptable. So the practice continues, when we implement the judgments, starts from international courts to our courts, that we have no principle, or rules on how we do it. Is it exclusively in the spirit and the letter of judgment, or are we using it as an opportunity to fix some other things at the same time, which we feel should be fixed? We don't have a uniform practice here, so I'm not surprised that this proposal went beyond what was the essence of the Constitutional Court ruling. So it's absolutely acceptable for me. First of all, I have to say that we were late in this case, even though, as far as I know, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has put forth a great deal of effort and made a proposal in time and even organised a public debate of 66 etc., but there has been a slowdown and we have a broken deadline that has given us the BiH Constitutional Court to implement this verdict. Therefore, it is absolutely acceptable for me and I support the implementation of the judgment, through the erasure of Article 16(a) and Article 16(a). 17 and 18. I'm at home when it comes to this matter, we've been doing this for several years, we've been proposing amendments to the law, we've claimed that the Constitution doesn't have to change, etc., that it's not against the constitution, but here we have reached the Constitutional Court. We also welcome the relief of returning, so to speak, the opportunities to join BiH's citizenship of those who had to give up, under the supposed morals, have decided to give up BiH citizenship, in order to get citizenship, such as Germany and those countries that sought... the presses from BiH citizenship, to get new citizenship. Also, I think it's good and positive, Article 9 and Article 10, that it's simplified and made it easier to naturalise foreign citizens, and so a few more of these things. The key problem is, in my opinion, what he touched, so to say, Article 38, which had its fact by 2001, so he had a limited fact and he now, in a way, was in the function of a transitional period to solve the really real problem that a large number of refugees had. However, things are now being slightly different, the possibility of residence, residence is being introduced, the possibility is being introduced, so to speak, of a non-selective way of being admitted to BiH citizenship. It is good and it is okay to allow the Ministry to keep certain records relating to the acquisition and termination of citizenship, etc., but it is not good that we did not allow this ministry to keep records of naturalised persons. So, for me, the problem is that this Article 38 went in the direction of permanent practice, so from one temporary point of view, it went into a constant practice, with me fully understanding that these people, who are there, need to be solved. I think of people who have fled from Croatia to BiH and have no intention of returning, there are 10, 15, 20 years to be solved. But in this way, it's not okay to get rid of them, because it comes out of the rules and principles. So we devalue the concept of residence, residence, citizenship in one logical and normal way. So we'll be restrained when it comes to this initiative, in addition to all these good things.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10352	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10353	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this is in short time a second case representing the Council of Ministers' Proposal for a Council of Law trying to implement the Constitutional Court's ruling, but another case where, in addition to the constitutional court's ruling, some other things are being proposed through the law. I think it is inadmissible practice and I call on the Council of Ministers that when it implements the Constitutional Court's rulings, it is strictly limited in its proposals to the Constitutional Court's verdict, because it will only be assessed as a serious and responsible effort to implement the Constitutional Court's ruling. In addition, trying to propose solving some other things, which may be controversial or uncontested, can be interpreted and otherwise interpreted. And I point this out only as an invitation to the Council of Ministers to take care of this, when the implementation of the Constitutional Court rulings is at stake. Thank you. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10354	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10355	Chairman, I don't think I have the need to explain to Mr. Belkić, he knows why the opinion is negative. Mr. Džaferović, I really don't understand your illusions about something else trying to get through. On the contrary, the collapses by the U.S.A. Law on residence and residence, which is closely linked to the Law on Citizenship and this law here before us, tells me that you are actually trying to protect someone. Please don't make me tell you who. The second thing, we had the Single Parent Number Act. You challenged it. Today we have a citizenship law that was brought down here. In this Law on Citizenship, which was sent by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, all and one suggestion, I carefully read it and wondered if the people of the Ministry had read the stenograms from our sessions and public debates, all and one suggestion was respected and imported. And what they were supposed to do, send us two special laws. The first thing, meaning the negative opinion of all members of the RS was because we believe that the Law on Citizenship, the Law on residence and residence, the Law on the Single Parent Number are laws that need to be adopted in the package. And to be honest with you, if you refused to implement the BiH Constitutional Court ruling following the appeal of 73 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I really do not feel the need to participate in the implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling on the appeal of Mr Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10356	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10357	So, I didn't say no. Again, for the sake of a stenogram, I respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and let what is the subject of the Constitutional Court's decision come to Parliament and nothing more. And then we'll see who respects the Constitutional Court's decisions, who doesn't respect them. Just for a stenogram, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10358	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10359	Dear counterpart Džaferović, you have given an extraordinary initiative and we can right away if it is possible to schedule a business session perhaps in an hour or two: the implementation of Sejdić and Finc's decision. Everything that is written there in the Strasbourg decision we just apply, as you said this would apply this decision by the BiH Constitutional Court on citizenship. Here's a solution, you just finished two things at once. I don't mean to ask you personally that you're giving consent, but is that how you want to do it? But you won't, 68 because you're in the decision of Sejdić and Finc all wanted to change, much wider the Constitution and we're not going any further. And here, when you need this citizenship thing, you call for the Constitutional Court's decision. Well, gentlemen, why won't we really be, I won't tell the truth, because you're truly an honest MP, I respect it more than others. You have your own attitude that I respect, but when there was a residence, a home number, it doesn't suit you to be regional, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you. And now that it's citizenship, if I didn't know who we were bringing into citizenship anymore, now you'd be blaming another side. Well, you should know that this other side is not a lady or Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, as you call it, so I am neither a member of the Commission nor Mr. Rodić, who is a member of the Commission, and a fourth member, that I do not call them all by name, well, we were neither partyly committed nor entity to the destruction of some laws that are in the interest of BiH, but we were principled to understand once that you have normal conversants on the side. But you're not going to go into dialogue with us at all how that you have a custom, not you personally, but these Federation parties, as I call it, to solve something in the package. So let's settle this in ten packages and get one package. Now you've given, I repeat, an extraordinary creamworth how to reach the verdict of Sejdić and Finci, who binds us. We're ready right now, very simple. A member of the RS presidency is elected one, no national prefix, completed, period. We're not going to change the Constitution as long as you want. So this, we implement the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court on citizenship, identity cards, home numbers, everything there, I don't know anymore, but it's easy to remember at 17.00 if the chairman is allowed, or at 19.00, here's the deal. Let's surprise ourselves first, then the EU, then the Commission, and all those who you call this PIC and these, as they gather there, they say as something. Well, I know what they said and I read it. But I don't care what they said anymore. I'm interested in what you said. And that we're making a deal with you because you're an equal partner to me. When I tell me, not individually, we can't solve anything, I'm aware. But to bring it down to the micro-level that we need to negotiate, and let's not accept this Constitutional Court decision as to what it says, the letter and the spirit, and the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci will spread, so whatever we catch in the change of the Constitution, Bog gives it well, or let's not say some other way, that someone doesn't object to me as it says religiously, and I'm not here to turn Parliament into it, but let's be principled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10360	No surprises, we're moving on. Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10361	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, here I want briefly in my discussion to support initiatives, namely the presentation of my predecessors who have said that perhaps, and here is the example now, we need to sort of agree on some practice and some procedure that we, as Parliament, will... deal with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. So, if this is the only principle that what the Constitutional Court has established as a commitment and has imposed on us to accept it, that when we amend the law, we treat that part only, then that this is an example for all other cases and we are not going to enter into one of these kind of discussions that we have different approaches from case to case. What I think is important to mention when it comes to the Law on Citizenship, so I think that this law (I've been in the Ministry of Civil Affairs for five years, I've talked to 69 of my colleagues here before), so in this proposal, in what's now been sent to us from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, there's really a lot of things that are a big step forward. So, the first thing about the implementation of the Constitutional Court ruling, then the deadlines cut, my colleague Belkić spoke very precisely about it, about the establishment of the record. I don't see why the records are, if we mention naturalized citizens there, or those who were admitted to citizenship based on naturalization, which is just the '92-2006 period.? So I think it should be done for the whole period. Also, it is a positive thing to allow citizens, our citizens who have lost their citizenship under the law, under Article 17 of the existing law, so that they can regain their citizenship under the accelerated procedure, but I ask you to take care of Article 38. Article 38 is what actually wakes us up to a certain dilemma and be vague. So why now, after 10 years of actually stopping the reasons for the application and the existence of one such member, why are we now trying only in the last sentence, by erasing an item that said that it had its meaning since '98. until 2001, or 2002, why are we now trying to put a certain confusion here in our country of BiH, because we think that this article was 38, which made sense to help people in the period when we didn't have the Law on Citizenship in BiH and when we had one interstate transition from one status to another. So, this member had its full meaning, he helped all of us, but since 2002, his function has completely ceased, especially given the objections we have from many parts, not only in the RS, so we have space in the Federation of BiH where they have legitimate objections that there are people in polling stations who are under suspicious circumstances enrolled in the electoral lists, and I don't think that in some way again, by actuating the story of Article 38, we could enter some kind of negative energy among all of us, especially in the election period. I ask my colleagues from the Ministry of Civil Affairs to respect this part in the next period and without this Article 38 we go into the final procedure, to solve this part with all these positive things which, in addition to that of Article 38, these amendments and additions to the Law contain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10362	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will only briefly say that the Club of Representatives of the Alliance for a Better Future in the amendment phase will act in several directions regarding this law that we also consider, following what Mr. Šepić said, in one part of the absolute step and what will help in the functioning of this area. We point here at several elements. One section concerns Article 9. .............................................................................................................................................................................. We ask the question why the BiH Ministry of Security is bypassed, whose jurisdiction is closely related to the matter of citizenship, with important segments such as the Border Police and the Foreign Relations Service acting. We think it would be good to include the BiH Ministry of Security in the adoption of legal 70 acts or in another variant that it gives consent to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs's sublegal act. We will also point to Article 11.a). In the position (1) we think that it should inevitably be stated that the person in the stateless status or the refugee has been granted, not just an uninterrupted stay on BiH territory five years before... requirements, because from the point of view of the security of BiH and its citizens, more importantly than the length of the stay is that he has passed certain control from the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10364	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions The bill was adopted in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in a different text. The subject of the alignment were four amendments adopted in the House of Peoples. The Joint Commission unanimously agreed four amendments, and proposed that the House adopt the report, which you have all received, and accept the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 10th point, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for in the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with BiH law for a period of 14. Nine. 2010 to 31. 12. 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10367	So today we have a chance to plead on the Independent Commission Report that has this long name and it's really hard to say, but that's what I'm calling the Independent Commission. And it is an independent body formed by the Parliamentary Assembly and this is the first Report of the Commission, given that it was founded on 14.9.2010 and practically covered by the 14th Report. 9th to the end of 2011. What exactly are the basics of the report? We see that the Independent Commission has visited five criminal and correctional institutions, which are state-level detention units, the Tower of East Sarajevo Penitentiary, Foča Penalty-Making Institute, the Kanzeno-Mending Institute of Sarajevo and the Busovac Penitentiary Institute. What can we say about these findings? The first thing I'm trying to say is that what's obvious and it seems to me that the report is so well written and clear, but what's evident is that the conditions in criminal and correctional institutions are mostly good. Despite the fact that the Commission has not been willing to make any precise and concrete remarks on certain matters, but basically I, as an MP, have had one report like this for the first time and I can say that I am surprised, because I thought that the situation in criminal and correctional institutions was much worse. I mean, this is what I'm saying about the conditions of accommodation, the conditions of nutrition, health care and so on. So for me, this is a new surprise. Secondly, it is without a doubt that the best conditions in the Busovci Penalty-Agreement Institute, which is the last and the latest, are the worst in Sarajevo's Criminal-Agreement Institute. Here are a few observations regarding the report. First, that members of the Independent Commission are not allowed to speak to the detainees or to conduct a review of the premises in which they are located at the Culsa Penitentiary Institute. They stated that the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions on BiH, detention and other measures enables them, in particular Article 48, which ensures that the Independent Commission can visit any place... and they are obliged to provide all data and information and provide all material relevant to their work, and in no way, as this time has been done, as the President of the Court has verbally ordered, to prevent them from having access to this kind of control. In that sense, I've certainly prepared one conclusion that I'll say later. The specificities of this report are one point, which is that it is a visit to the prisoners at Foča's Penitentiary and correctional office, especially the performances of inmate Željko Mejakić. This was given to the members of the Independent Commission for two convictions. One verdict against Zijad Kurtović, who was sentenced to 25. 3. In 2009, according to the SFRJ Criminal Law for a similar act and at the same time received 11 years in prison, and, at the same time, Željko Mejakić and others who were sentenced under the Penal Code of BiH to fines from 22 to 30 years in prison for acts committed at the time of the entry into force of the SFRY Act. So, what is, that was reason enough for two members of the Commission, I think it is the second Predrag of Crnogorac and Milan Škipin, so both of the Serb people, in accordance with Article 8(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Independent Commission, to issue their opinion. The first thing I'd like to say is that what they were doing in that separate opinion is a clear attitude that we used to talk about at the sessions of this house very often. It's 72 first discrimination among convicted persons on a different basis. The first discrimination, therefore selective application, is based on the BiH Criminal Law, it is against Srbin, and under the second SFRJ Criminal Law, according to Bošnjak. So these are two visible examples of how we discriminate among the nations. Another way of discrimination is when it comes to parole, because they are placed in a different position of the person convicted of the same crimes and legal irregularity is implicated. Third, maintaining sentence in open-and-closed institutions. Therefore, those convicted under the SFRJ Criminal Law have the opportunity to be in criminal and correctional institutions open and these other closed types. And, in the end, discrimination based on the place of detention. So, some are honored to be close to their families and others are so far away that their human rights are virtually compromised on the basis of the possibility of family visits. So I don't really see why the Commission didn't find so much understanding, what the two representatives of the Commission said could have been a common position. They will not change their mind, but it is evident that the human rights of the prisoners have been violated and should have been written about it. In the end, I'm saying that the report should definitely be adopted, respecting that it's the first report in the hope that the next one, so from 14, we have now five, that we're going to have more than half. I hope that only five reports are due to the fact that the Commission, established by Parliament, still worked in the year when there was no budget and there was no basis for the costs to be much higher, so that they could tour much more criminal and correctional institutions. That is why I propose that the 2011 Independent Commission report be adopted, with an individual opinion. Secondly, I suggest that Chapter V of Recommendations and Conclusions be not adopted. Why not adopt that? I'm asking you to take a look, they've done it pretty much, so it's not clear and clear, and it's not in the form of a conclusion. Let's say, he says, "Keep doing constant controls on criminal and correctional institutions, institutions and places in which prison measures are maintained, because control is never enough and can't be many." I mean, one sentence that's problematic by all accounts. And that's their job, so that's their job. The second thing is, "Consume a permanent education of the Independent Commission." Well, I mean, really, I don't know what to write in conclusions. 'To provide adequate financial resources in the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions.' Well, here, they're provided for you. I think these recommendations should, I think, make Parliamentarians' point of view more acceptable. Here, I suggest two conclusions. One is: 'That the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Court of Justice of BiH to comply with the powers of the Independent Commission defined in Article 48. The BiH law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures enables its smooth work and communication with detainees in the KPZ Tower, as well as a review of the premises in which the detainees are located, as well as the findings of the competent institutions." So that's what the Department of Justice suggested. Another conclusion: 'As the BiH Ministry of Justice has the legal jurisdiction of inspection control over the work of the Court's administration, under Article 130. The BiH law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures requires the Justice Ministry to deliver a report on the last inspection surveillance carried out." So that would be my suggestion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10368	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10369	Mr. Chairman, I'm obliged to, as much as a man is trying not to replicate this exposure, I'm just saying a few words. The issue of the time-consistency of the Criminal Law is a first-class and complex legal issue decided by the court in any particular case. And there is no institution that can decide on this issue except the court that judges in any particular case. The issue of the time-consistency of the Criminal Code is not a question of the jurisdiction of the Independent Commission to monitor the conditions of stay in institutions, conduct and respect for human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures, but simply this issue is a matter of the court in any particular case. And therefore, this could have been stated in the report but I think Dom has adopted a separate opinion, but I am obliged to stand up and say this, because we must not confuse the jurisdiction of the court and the jurisdiction of this committee that follows the conditions of being in prison. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10370	Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10371	I didn't say anything else. I asked if it was a problem for a separate opinion to be an integral part of the report. And I said that the court had no right to prohibit the Independent Commission from carrying out an insight, and that was what the Justice Department sent that letter, because no one can do that. They have to carry out that insight and that's why we started them. So, I don't think there was any reason why this wasn't content, the common content of this Independent Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10372	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10373	Well, I don't have to, but I'll discuss it for a while. So, as usual, what happens in a work report we, of course, always try to introduce other things, things that we certainly can't solve here and now. I will talk about this report and list this committee as one of the two examples that we will have here today in front of us, examples of an unorganized approach to establish and function the institutions that we here, or our decisions or laws, are establishing. This commission was established by a decision in which it only says that nothing more is being established, neither where, nor what, nor who will help it, who will collect them, in which way will be financed, absolutely, absolutely nothing, which was the result that the first four months since the establishment had no funding but people, so to speak, about their cost, of their goodwill, were trying in some way to do things, of course, and the next year was temporary funding. In the budget this year they're somewhere in some items, nowhere to be found... etc. But here are the examples. Such is the same thing with the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Coordination Agency. And something must change, I'm sure. 74 As far as the Commission's Report and Opinions are concerned, we have the opinion of the Commission for Human Rights, the rights of the child, etc. which is positive and which is unanimous, and supports the work of this committee with certain conclusions which are also acceptable to me. When it comes to the Report, so when it comes to the Report and the opinion given, the Report says that two members of the Commission disagreed with this recommendation, is that, when it comes to visiting, your visit, Mr Lasić, help me, your visit to Foca. It seems to me that here it stands in this, in fact, right, I'm sure two members of the Commission disagreed. So, the methodology itself of the Commission's work is for every praise, in my opinion. This is the beginning, I support the work of this commission and ask them to try to resist this ethnic approach, the approach of national belongings to... You'll see that it's slowly beginning to be recognized, so that's standard of ours, we've placed it here, and that's the matrix that we're working on. So, I will absolutely support this report on work. I think that the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I don't know who, it is said here that our people from this commission didn't know at all that this Committee for the Prevention of the Torment of the Council of Europe was in April, whether, last year, 2011, it was staying and that serious objections to our prison system, whether this commission was in charge of those prisons or not, but the things they said in their report were really worrying. So our Ministry of Justice and those of the Council of Ministers, i.e. institutions that communicate with international institutions, must affirm and place this commission as a partner, as someone who should communicate with them. This time it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10374	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10375	Here, Dušanka, I'm ready to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10376	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10377	Please don't argue like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10378	Here, the Ministry of Human Rights, here I apologize, so I was insecure, so the Ministry of Human Rights has failed to connect the Commission to this Council of Europe Committee and that the Commission is practically a talker to the Committee. So, as far as I'm concerned, I believe, and my colleagues, we will accept this report and give full support to the work of our Independent Commission, but it obviously needs help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10379	Thank you. Next for the discussion is distinguished colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10380	The Honorable Chairman, as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights on 8 May this year, we had this item on the agenda, so I had some comments and to say some objections. The independent commission, in fact her period of work, the report that is here with us, has shown work in fact from September 2010 to the end of 2011. It is evident that there are 14 correctional institutions with us, that there have been 121 complaints from persons in these institutions, and it is also evident that the Independent Commission has visited five criminal and correctional institutions, what Mrs. Majkić said, means the State-level detention unit, the closed type, then the Tower, Fochu, Sarajevo, Busovac. Some of them are low capacity, but here's Foca, who has the capacity of 340 people who live there, 62 persons are literally covering..., these are crimes that were condemned by the fact-finding Court of BiH. Recommendations, what they said about visiting those detention units, for me is not enough, recommendations are superficial. I have a feeling that this is what they've been doing, but it's still a long time and very, very little has been done. To note that in September 2010, an Independent Commission was established and I really expected, regardless of what they have here and financial problems, I expected more work, more engagements and more contacts with all bodies, because more bodies are in fact concerned with the protection of human rights and in fact human rights of prisoners in these prison units. What's what I'm still actually worried about, actually, and I'll ask the gentlemen here if there's any representatives. In October 2008, BiH became the state signatories of the Operational Protocol for the Prevention of Tortrum. In accordance with this protocol, we have an obligation to develop this national preventive mechanism. Here, I mention again, and the importance is that we have more bodies, meaning that we are dealing with the human rights situation, prisoners of our own, there is the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice, civil affairs, this independent commission, the Institute of the Ombudsman, etc., but it is evident that there is really no coordination between these bodies, and what Mr. Belkić said, uninformedness and in this I really see that they are not focusing on the problem of this population itself that we must, no matter what, protect. So that's what they lack - coordination. My question is when are we really going to get to, what is our obligation, to develop this national preventive mechanism and who is basically responsible for it? Are these institutions, which I'm counting, in coordination with all of them or who is the one who's actually responsible for what we've done since October 2008? Thank you very much, and I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10381	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10382	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, although the name of this committee is very complicated to say, I will take part in the discussion due to the report of our... Joint Committees on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, etc. The Commission suggests, of course, that we adopt the Commission's report on monitoring the conditions of stay in the institutions with two conclusions, where it insists in the second conclusion that this Independent Commission visit the Zenica closed-type KPZ within a month at the latest, and that the report on the situation found in that office be delivered to the Joint Commission in order to determine it according to Dušanka Majkić's parliamentary initiative. I don't mind, 76 of course, and I also support the Commission's report, and our Joint Commission, and conclusions, but I only have one small intervention, for a reason, to add to Banja Luka after the word: And why is that? Namely, the Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Tortrums, which presented the report on the situation in the criminal and correctional institutions in BiH, i.e. on the conditions in these institutions, says this: 'Special attention should be paid to the situation in Banja Luka prison and to take all necessary steps to ensure that abuse is subject to severe penalties'. For a reason, I suggest that this conclusion also means that Banja Luka's Penalty-Adjustment Institute, so that we do not come to the situation that... members of the Commission for, as it is already called, the monitoring of the conditions of stay in the institutions have separate opinions, because it depends on whether they have made a report on Busovača, Zenica, Kula, Foca or, I do not know, Sarajevo, depending on it, the opinions of Bošnjak, members of the Commission, or Srbin, or Hrvat. Therefore, in order to avoid such opportunities, I suggest that they indeed, here, have started a great job, to tour these conclusions and to punish and repair the Zenica and Banja Luka Institute and to deliver the report to us. I've had the opportunity to personally tour the Zenica Penitentiary and see to the state, of course, through the talks and with the convicts. They'd be the luckiest if they were out of that penitentiary, but, of course, they have to serve the fine they deserve. That's why I think they need to be provided with the minimum conditions of a decent man. And I therefore support the work of this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10383	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10384	Mr. President, when I applied for a debate on this subject, I wanted to point out, I wanted to point out primarily the circumstances and conditions in which this committee was working, the context in which this was happening, but already said enough about it by Mr. Beriz Belkić, so I only have to express my personal satisfaction with what this commission has done under these circumstances. I want it to go on and on and on, and I am convinced that there will be new developments when it comes to the conditions in which the prisoners in BiH are being punished. So, as far as the HDZ Representatives' Club of BiH is concerned, we will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10385	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10386	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so here we are, once I begin the discussion and I as a member of this committee. So, what happened here and what happened, in this report, we couldn't name everything. And what's the point? The bottom line is that this Independent Commission is made up of people who are employed in our institutions in various positions – civil servants, assistants, and I don't know who. So these are our people who do their regular work and we give them this other commitment, and they made a report as they did. And, we talked in detail on the Commission, even had a public hearing of Member 77 of the Commission. And these problems can solve everything, not to be solved by Parliament, but by the Ministry of Justice. But what's the problem with the other one that needs to be set up? Communication from this committee with the competent institutions, mostly the ministries responsible for the protection of human rights, the Ministry of Justice, and not that, I don't know, who else, I'm deciding, but I don't have the right to, or anyone else, whether this Independent Commission is going to visit some criminal and correctional institution or institution. So we had, let's say, an example I'm just saying as a clagworth, and I'm going to add these visits, I can't go to Zenica, and that's exactly what Mr. Mehmedović is, I agree that at least these people don't make any national selection, no discrimination, and they're asking for a visit. The warden says, "You can't visit these prisoners." Why? 'So the BiH Court has not convicted them, and you are in charge only when the BiH Court condemns whom. If it's a cantonal, you're not in charge." Then don't honor us for bringing a national strategy here, and these cantonal courts are the most, applying new legislation, condemning these Serb unfortunates to maximum penalties. And that commission, of course, wants to visit Bošnjak, and Srbin, and Hrvat, I don't know who's there anymore, and they say, "You can't visit these, the cantonal court convicted them, you're not in charge, you're in charge of those who were convicted by the BiH Court." And we founded the Independent Commission, as you like to say here, and I avoid it, the term of the state,... I wouldn't like it to be, I would like it to be, but she didn't, but here's the state's commission and one of the self-sufficient administrators there says, "You can't visit these." And what we've been looking for as humans, not making discrimination, not making selections, visit these, visit them, and give us a full report. And then they say, "We're your committee that's formed, but we still don't know what the rules are that we're doing." Well, then there's no budget, so we took our cars. Well, I don't know, I asked, she was a respected colleague of Ćemalović, and I wrote, "If you need a new fleet, whatever you want, whoever you want, write something down." That is why we have received a report like this that I propose to accept, but it will not contribute to the resolution of the fate of these prisoners spoken of by Mr Mehmedović. Who told them not to go to Banja Luka? No Niko's alive, not even mentioned it. But we got a report at the hearing that I couldn't make it to Zenica, so Zenica was... not because she was important to me. Well, then this Busovača, no one's even heard he's got any department there. And as we've heard, the truth is, the Grud department. Now I'm normally asking where the prison in the Gruds is from, what kind of correctional institution is there, so who's being sent to Busovac. I heard and I know, I was sitting in Busovacha, a good town, a little town, I never heard of any out-of-town department. So let's say that we see what it's like there, so how it is in Foca, so what it's like in Zenica, so what it's like in Banja Luka, but it's exactly on the back of this story that this independent has a little bit more authority so she can ask these of ours, she doesn't need a minister, but here's his associates -- people, let's not let the President of the Court forbid me to go there. Look, she can forbid it. ... Parliament... forbid, do. Don't work against Parliament's decisions, people! Why did we form these people to send them somewhere, and I can't get anywhere, is that it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10387	Thank you. I see there is also the President of the Independent Commission, the Honorable Mr Mile Lasić. Do you have a need? Yes, you do. Come on, come on. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10388	Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for allowing me to speak briefly here because, as the esteemed representative said, for the first time, the report, twice for the first time. For the first time in our report, and for the first time, the report of one of these bodies is a parliamentary, this kind of mechanism in BiH that is... at the beginning of its creation. The culprit for our creation is the European prison rules, which ratified BiH, and the 2009 amendments and additions to the 2009 ZIKS and in Parliament's last session, not... to the last sessions, we are appointed. I'd like to point out here, so we're being led by an OSCE expert assessment. In order to create at all, we used the assessment of the need to establish a National Prevention Mechanism in BiH, which the OSCE in the BiH Regulation has done with a comparative analysis of national preventive mechanisms of similar countries. The assessment contained a projection of the need for the Professional National Prevention Mechanism, the more expensive model of 470,000 KM, and the Voluntary National Prevention Mechanism cheaper, which contained a figure of 266,000 KM in Slovenia's reputation. We requested the approval of the Independent Commission budget in 2011 amounting to a cheaper version of 266,000 KM. We were approved, after two, three times, to return 145,000 KM from the current stock, and out of 145,000 KM only 85,000 were made out of liquid stock. It's the same for 2012. You've noticed, we've only visited five correctional institutions. Of those five, we only had the approval of one criminal correctional office, for Focha for two days. We did the rest of the seductions as part of our Independent Commission's internal work and didn't ask for a trip. And as for seeing that we cannot do our job, we have asked the Joint College, as has the military commissioner, therefore an unlimited permanent travel order for BiH, as the military commissioner is doing, so he visits the barracks, military services, etc., so that we can do our job freely, so that we can carry out visits to criminal and correctional institutions without delay. And only a month ago did we get approval. We were supposed to visit KPZ Mostar and Trebinje in December, 12 months last year. We've announced the Bureau's administration, but there's a response here that we can't go for known reasons, a lack of financial resources. So, by any chance, we went and went to those two institutions already these five would have had two more tours of criminal and correctional institutions, so that would be 50% of the budget. Here, again I say, only the conditions we've been working on. And so for, here, the next year we were granted 145,000 KM from the current stock. As for Zenica, the European standard for visiting one prison and talking to prisoners is 50 prisoners per day, which means, as many as are in Zenica, we should be there for at least a week, with that restriction of jurisdiction. A fellow representative was told by the state commission. Yes, but in the name of the Independent Commission it is said who we are – only the state level and this international level, taking care of international courts, i.e. the courts of foreign states, and we are not in charge of entities and lower courts. That's our name and the law. So there is that positive discrimination in terms of lower courts. And believe me, as president of the Independent Commission, I feel very bad when I come to the cell and when I ask who they are, let's introduce ourselves, and when I have to do positive legal discrimination. We are not for you, they are eager to talk to someone, some are..., we are looking for those convicted by the BiH Court and the international court. And we're making a selection and we can say 79 just let you in, talk to you, etc. But it's a restriction in the ZIKS, it's a restriction in our name. Here, let me no longer bother you, there were questions here, I mean from a colleague, I don't know if I wrote it right, 'when will the National Prevention Mechanism develop and who is responsible for it?' Activities in the development of this National Prevention Mechanism shall be managed by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. It is these days that a memo is sent to certain addresses and delivered... to a working group that will... special law on the National Prevention Mechanism which may contain one or more of these national preventive mechanisms. At the end of our report, there is a modality of what might be in BiH, just to point out: in BiH, we currently have nine bodies dealing with this problem, someone more, someone less. Believe me, the Independent Commission is certainly on the first, if not on the first then on the second, sometimes on the second once in the first place after what it did. In conjecturing reports we've given up 50, 60... What we have done, the decisions we have made, the difficulties we have had, we are only what we have found on the ground, and we have only been granted a visit to one KPZ, and that's Foča. I don't know if there were any more questions. I believe that the Independent Commission will also receive a call from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to participate in this task force to draft a special law that you as parliamentarians will have on your benches. As for the conclusions on the tour of these two correctional institutions, Zenica and Banja Luka, if they proposed a Joint Commission on Human Rights, etc., I think we can do that now that we got permanent approval a month ago. There will certainly be a priority in our work for Zenica and Banja Luka, and probably, if not sooner, in the next report for this year will be our finding of visits to these two criminal and correctional institutions. Otherwise, in our approach to our work we wanted, since this is the first National Prevention Mechanism, part of the National Prevention Mechanism we wanted our first detailed visit to be announced and everyone else, which is a European standard, will be unannounced. Now we have a warrant and we'll know how to do our job and get to a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10389	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Kolegijum report on efforts to reach agreement on Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2011 80 The consent report you received. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. We will declare ourselves in the second round of information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2011. This isn't a debate. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Information on the programming process Pre-accession Assistance Instrument (IPA) – Component I for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 and 2013
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10392	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here I am, on behalf of the European Integration Commission, just a few words to say. You've read the conclusion that perhaps at first sight our colleagues will look like this in general. So we didn't conclude anything epochally at our regular 8th session of the Commission for European Integration. However, on this occasion, I would like to say that yesterday we had a very constructive debate on the Commission for European Integration in the sense that we all agreed that, practically, the Commission for European Integration, although it is significant by its own formulation, has so far not some ingenuity that could act in terms of implementing these, or pressures on the implementation of the European integration process. Why is that? We have concluded that this is because this process itself can only be achieved in this way if certain amendments to the Rules of Procedure are made. The same day, or yesterday, 23. 5., we had each other very much, as I would say, constructive association in terms of amending certain points of the Rules of Procedure of both Houses of Parliament and at which this issue was not discussed in relation to European integration, but the way and procedure of amending the Rules of Procedure of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Our proposal yesterday, which we didn't formulate, means as a suggestion, that if we had such a single request that we would naturally forward it to this committee. At this session 81 of the Commission on the amendments to this Rules of Procedure, we received from my colleague Majkić... one exhaustive information that the Commission was in charge, in the previous term of this assembly, practically, very much done on this material and that this material was about 300 pages away. So the members of that commission, who worked to amend the Parliamentary Assembly's rules of procedure, worked really hard. This material is suggested to be adopted in a practical way and to go into further procedure. Given that the deadline for these programming of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) is very short for both formulations and for the submission of final proposals to the European Commission, practically 13. 7, that is very fast, this Commission for European Integration and thus encourages all relevant entities to engage in this process. We believe that the information we have received from the Directorate for European Integration is correct, that it is well done and, given that this is living matter, we have concluded as a Commission that perhaps we should get these, because of a short period of time, information from the Directorate for European Integration. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10393	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10394	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I did agree with the conclusions made by my colleague Vesna, but I have continued to comment on how this commission works. I looked at the previous Rules of Procedure, before I prepared for the debate today, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the competence of their Committee on European Integration, and I looked at our Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and... if this is a document that, and probably is, the Commission for the European, or the Committee for European Integration of the Croatian Parliament, then it has nothing more jurisdiction than the Joint Commission for the European Integration of the Parliament of BiH. The results that the Commission has done in the European integration process and which this Commission is working on are incomparable. Why is that? Here, I'll try to trouble you first, and then I'll bring up some facts relating to the IPA programming phase for 2012 and 2013. The materials we received on the Commission are from 17. 2. In 2012, and the other material that we received at the beginning of the session... was forwarded 8. 3. At a time when the process is dynamic, when every day changes, at a time when the programming and coordination process is conducted for 24 hours, when there are deadlines that you have to respect, when everything is written, we get two and a half, or three and a half months late. We have to agree that it's certainly inadmissible behavior, and we're talking about assets, and it's the only means that we can withdraw now except for credit funds. And we know how creditworthy we are and we've discussed the budget a little before, if we're going to save 40 million, and here the question is whether we're going to lose 100 million euros this year, or maybe something more. That's why I think this issue is particularly important and that this issue is for all of us in BiH, I'm not going back, I'm listening to history today, I want to watch what's ahead for BiH and what's certainly good for everyone. So, money certainly needs everyone, and I don't believe that anyone hates these 82 assets that are pure means and that should only be in accordance with certain procedures, respecting certain rules that we... have committed ourselves to. So, regardless of these materials and these Commission conclusions, I want to say that again, it doesn't matter what we got, because nothing has changed for these three or four months that matters. BiH in IPA programming for 2012 and 2013 began the negotiation process last year, so more than 16 months ago. BiH only has access to two IPA components, with this II. the cross-border co-operation component harmonised and it carries far less funds than the I. relating to the transition process, assistance in the transition process and the construction of institutions. Project programming for 2012 and '13 The year for component I has undergone a phase of identification of sectoral and project proposals and for the development of these activities has been formed, believed or not, by 17 working groups, and representatives of the EU, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Office of State Coordinator for IPA Projects (DIPAK), representatives, or project leaders, entity representatives and the Brcko District have been involved. By December, meaning from January last year to December, nothing has been done or at least we have no information that anything significant has been done until the beginning of December when the European Commission's request says it is extremely important to achieve agreement within the working groups on the proposed areas of intervention, objectives and activities. In the working groups no agreement was reached in January 2012 the State Coordinator (DIPAK) informed the European Commission, the EU delegation to BiH, the Council of Ministers, the Federation and RS governments and was asked to extend the 20th deadline. 1 to 17. 2. In 2012. You see,... the deadline goes on for a month, and we're three months behind. EU Enlargement Commissioner Štefan File is 7. 2. sent a letter to ministers at the state and entity level asking them to reach agreement by 17. 2. for the areas of justice, transport and energy which draw the most funds from European funds: the judiciary is 48m euros that are not agreed on by projects, 46m euros and 5m euros in energy. These are the priorities that are set out in the indicative plan for funding and which draw the most funding. It has been warned that without these sectors, nothing previously agreed will be considered complete and we will lose the complete package for 2012 and 2013. In particular, it has been appealed to the ministers of justice, traffic, foreign trade and economic relations to address the problem as soon as possible. And now, after this brief retrospective, the question arises: Why does the integration process, which everyone agrees has no alternative, brake? What are the reasons why this process is stalling, and why won't we have the money? Or are we not interested in this House at all, and neither is the BiH state to have this money? Here, that's the only way I can interpret it. Who are they that are holding the process back and making it impossible to proceed according to the proposed deadlines? What are all the actors who are interested in the EU, and why are they no longer involved in these processes? Are the programming mechanisms in place respected and what is the reason why these mechanisms are not respected? If so, why is there so little talk in this House about these projects and the causes and all the problems we are actually putting on one condition: Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci and those two laws that we previously passed in Parliament? Why does the Joint Commission on European Integration, which is constantly called upon and called on from the international community to achieve its role and animate more topics and include Parliament in reform and EU integration, no longer work on the issues that finally have this commission appointed? Every country in the pre-accession process needed funds and funds programmed for the purpose of strengthening institutional support mechanisms for the acceptance and enforcement of conditions for future membership. In BiH, an obvious and hypocritical approach to the integration process or the accession process is being obstructed in a way that leads everything to absurdity and prevents it from being realised. The identification phase has been completed and the agreement on project ideas has been long and difficult, the consensus of all actors in the programming process, or negotiation, is now in place. Structural projects have made it easier to agree on 83 specific issues and specific needs, while programme projects are being disputed by the entity's Ministry of Economic Relations and regional co-operation of the RS and there... the process is being interrupted and slowed down. Small teams that have consulted entity ministries, entity institutions, and the Brcko District institution have participated in the programming problem resolution phase until now. Today, these teams are too big, numbers over 20, 17 teams, where actors are not prepared, do not know the competences, have no experience in the business, and turn every technical issue into a political issue, trying to challenge project creation. The preparation of the project always calls for concrete things, a report on BiH's progress, arguments have been reached, i.e. the unfulfilled conditions of the European Partnership, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the multiannual indicative plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10395	Time! Nermina Zaimovic-
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10396	It's an argument, and I'm going to finish now, which is being called for in the design of the projects. The assessment of projects from the identification phase is very low and the reason, which the European Commission says, is the lack of political consensus, whatever that means. The project manager function defined by the Council's decision is not respected in the phase we are talking about in this report. The programming process did not respect the Council's decisions, no guidelines were made under which the European Integration Directorate runs the process as the EU's main partner. In practice, it was practically chaos. And the identification phase has been completed with four unconformed projects.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10397	I'd like an esteemed representative to take care of the weather, one minute, and 15 seconds is exceeded.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10398	Here, I will end up no matter what problems there are obviously in this work, obviously there is a lack of goodwill and obviously there is a certain possibility of losing 100 million euros in IPA funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10399	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10400	Well, I'd just like to replicate my colleague Nermina. I do not agree, colleague Nermin, that the RS, or entity commission and entity competent RS ministry, is holding back the process of European integration, it is simply not true, from my perspective, at least. We are witnessing that there is indeed a lot of investment in RS, or the National Assembly of the RS, that even all the laws that have been passed lately must be in line with the process of European integration. So I think it's not a matter of stopping 84, it's a matter of brake, let's say, I have to, don't be angry, but the competent committee in the Federation of BiH simply wants all issues of European integration to be tackled by this state level, not the Federation level. There's a little problem. So there is no coordination between certain factors for European integration between the Federation, RS and the state level. It's just that somehow it won't be understood, let's say, at the Federation level, of course now under... is it, that these processes have to be coordinated. Without the coordination of these processes, we really cannot talk anymore as parrots, without co-ordination of the process there are no real European integrations. We can't forget, so neither local communities, means cantons in the Federation, not the RS, not the Federation, nor can the Federation behave in such a way as to transfer all this to the state level. That is out of the question, it is simply out of the question, because the RS has repeatedly pleaded on this issue and said it is indeed for European integration with all its heart. We have a great ministry there that works, great committees and I don't see any reason to call it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10401	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10402	It is not a matter of declarative statement, it is a problem to act and act on facts, therefore respect for what is written, of course with respect to coordination, no one has slowed the coordination, but everyone will agree that the coordination between 17 teams that count and 20 people... and who have the only argument – this is not in line with the Constitution, is not what we can offer in projects... and in project tasks the EU offers. It has nothing to do with it anymore, it has to do with concrete action, concrete facts about the specific things we apply to. Because that, and that's the problem, that's the problem everyone wants to translate to a political plane. And six leaders don't always have to participate in the project, and the IPA project should finally agree, to make decisions that will be respected in order to complete the process. Because obviously, everyone here is a loser in the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10403	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10404	I have to replicate again. Indeed, it must be understood that there is also a political problem, of course there is. But he does refer to it, let's just say, from the Federation, to say it out loud, whether someone liked it or didn't like it, so under the heading of European integration, they want to unitarize the state. That is not the case, we must understand that indeed all levels of government must agree if we want a European path to the EU. And it must be agreed politically and truly and realistically so that all this way will go its own way. Because no one can be so crazy in this country, nor so politically irresponsible, that what the EU offers, all of these privileges that the EU offers, that is, this path to European integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10405	Thank you. 85 The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10406	Mr. Chairman, therefore, yesterday we had a debate on the Joint Commission, I would like to say that significant results have been achieved, so the Directorate for European Integration and Competent Ministries of the Government of the Republic of RS, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District. It should be noted that there are significant funds for pre-accession funds for 2012, 2013, i.e. 211,540,000 euros. There are four other project proposals that are not in line and this proves... the reality in BiH that we have a significant reminder from last year when we were late with the reference, so an application for project proposals from IPA projects for the previous year, that it is necessary to have better coordination and co-operation of all levels of government in BiH, because without it it is impossible to agree on certain project proposals. We now have the deadline of July 13th of this year, so we have a request for all these projects. Of these 19 project proposals, unconformed areas of support for the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, areas of health and safety, safety at work, support in the field of energy, as well as the area of food security have remained. These projects, so these four projects are not in line. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, I'm very glad that in the meantime it's agreed, so there are only three left, but that's about 30m euros, and it needs the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, so it's unique to support this proposal to expect from the Directorate for European Integration that, in co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Federation and the Brčko Distrikt, we will agree these remaining three, so we will be in this situation to apply with all the projects in time and get these funds that are extremely important to everyone in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10408	Thank you. For the debate, the next is the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10409	Thank you, Chairman. I have listened carefully to the discussion so far, and it seems to me that there is left, at least for those who do not breathe with this problem, a lot of ambiguity. Well, let me remind you a little bit. First, BiH signed an agreement in July 2008, excuse me, in February 2008, the Framework Agreement between BiH and the Commission of the European Communities on rules of co-operation relating to European Community financial assistance, i.e. state aid implementation through the IPA instrument or the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. I recall, the agreement was ratified by the Presidency's decision of July that year, so in 2008, BiH committed itself to establishing the prescribed structures and functions necessary for the establishment and functioning of a decentralised aid system, the management of aid through the IPA Instrument. And to mention that this agreement also describes for each of the five components the operational structure for the decentralised system, with each of these 86 operational structures being present and horizontal functions such as NIPAK – state co-ordinator for IPA, which ensures a close link between the accession process and the implementation process of EU funds... Then, the state certification officer, who is also the head of the state fund and bears total responsibility for the financial management of the funds. For each of the five components, and in particular reminding that BiH has the right to use funds only for the first two components of IPA, an operational structure was established, i.e. an operational structure, e.g. For Component I, among other things, projects are controversial, i.e. unfinished issues which were previously referred to. For example. NIPAK, an office that manages the programming process and conducts monitoring activities, then the Central Funding and Contracting Unit at the head with the programme's approval officer to conclude these operational agreements with project leaders. Then, project leaders, detailed description, its obligations and internal reserve units. To be clear, the problems in the case of Component I are obstructions by the RS which are mainly in the context of opposition to the establishment of such an operational structure, since they believe that the central funding and settlement units should be established at the entity level. I remind you, this directly coincides with the agreement signed by the BiH state in February 2008 and the presidency ratified the same agreement in July 2008. For Component II. also problems related to external audit, the structure is also envisaged. And what's the problem? Practically, we have an internal problem obstructing the implementation of this agreement, which BiH has signed with the EC. That is why, and a number of problems, and a number of issues, the prolonging of deadlines, the waiting, the insistence on establishing that structure, and in this sense we have the situation as previously indicated. I'd like to suggest two conclusions on this. The first conclusion: 'The Council of Ministers undertakes to provide for the establishment of the prescribed structure and functions necessary for the establishment and functioning of a decentralised management system, and in accordance with the Framework Agreement between BiH and the Commission of the European Communities on the rules of co-operation relating to the financial assistance of the EC in the context of the implementation of assistance through the IPA'. I remind you, BiH signed this agreement on 20 February 2008, and the presidency ratified it in July 2008. Another conclusion: "The Council of Ministers will inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of possible reasons and institutions that obstruct the implementation of this Framework Agreement." I want to mention that as long as we don't get a different state of mind, or address, possibly, obstructions of the implementation of the commitments that BiH has made, we can't go in the direction or implement such obligations, or possibly talk about the modality in the direction of some other solution in the spirit in which it has already been here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10410	Thank you. 87 There are no more applications for discussion on this agenda, so I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Information on the state and problems in the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, with proposals to improve the situation in this area On the occasion of the implementation of the initiative of MP Nermin Purić, adopted at the 24th session of the House, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption is 19th. 4. In 2012, she delivered the information. The Constitutional Legal Commission has delivered Opinion 8. 5. In 2012. At the 27th session, held on 10th. 5. In 2012, a discussion on Information until this session was postponed at the proposal of MP Nermin Purić. We also received from the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption proposal to include the Agency's 2011 Work Report on the agenda. Since the Agency has a legal obligation to submit a report to the Commission rather than to Dom, we did not include it as a special item of the agenda. The House College decided to discuss, within the framework of this point, the Commission's report on the Agency's 2011 work report. I am opening a debate on the Information on the Commission's Report. The debate was first reported by distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10412	Dear Chairman, I ask you to start by seeing if we've made a mistake in fact. We've got two materials. One material is Information on the state and problems of the Agency based on MP Nermin Purić's initiative. And that's a letter from the Agency to prevent corruption and coordinate the fight against corruption of 18. 4. In 2012, followed by the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. It's a document. The second document we received was the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. It's a material of 5. 3. In 2012. And this is the material that follows the Commission's opinion on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. I ask that the Agency report, accompanied by the Commission's report on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work, be put in place both towards the House of People and be adopted there. This is a private point that Parliament too needs to be declared. And this second point, which concerns MP Nermin Purić's initiative, will be given its epilogue and ending at today's House of Representatives session. So we have a point 12.1. which is called the Agency's report on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption and point 12.2. which is the one I was talking about on Mr Purić's initiative. 88 If we set things up like that, then we could, I would like to say a few words about the report and the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, given that I am the chairman of the Commission and to refer to the report delivered by the Commission to the House of Representatives, i.e.... although the Director of the Agency... is present and who... I hope that he will say a few words on the subject, that all those answers that were of interest to MP Nermin Purić will already be seen from the report. The fact is that at the end of 2009, the Act on the Agency was passed, and I'm calling it the Agency because it's a complex name so I don't repeat her whole name. BiH has formed a Corruption Prevention Agency, we know that this was a key reason for visa liberalisation and that for a long time we had an executive in office at the head of the Agency. The Council of Ministers adopted the Anti-Corruption Strategy in September 2009, and the Action Plan for Implementation of the Strategy, at a time when we had not yet led the appointed leadership. Furthermore, the Strategy foresees that the Agency develops, full capacity, from 2009 to 2014 to be a key factor in BiH to prevent corruption and co-ordinate the fight against corruption. And where are we today? It's a question that many rightly ask us. The agency has been established, the director and two deputies have been appointed, and we will have an opportunity to hear from the director, Mr. Sead Lisak. The second thing is that the mandate for elected persons began to run from 16. 8. 2011 That the Agency was founded, so without budget it was funded on the basis of temporary funding because it was founded only at the end of 2011. She failed to implement the employment plan because the Council of Ministers failed to adopt 'Internal Organisation'. So, really, that rule is problematic because for a long time now, I've been thinking since the 12th month of last year, the Agency can't get to this rule that it is and the fact is that it's predicted a large number of people, 57 people. Then there was a reduction for a number of people, but now it's obviously a dispute. And secondly, the Agency is temporarily located, so there's no space, no lease, but it's got to use some of the space that's in the SIPA Agency. Meanwhile, the fact that it is not good has expired most of the deadlines defined by the Action Plan and the Strategy. So she can't work with the director and two deputies. It's not the minimum staff she can make a full swing with. Finally, the Agency's selection and monitoring committee, which includes three members of the House of Representatives, three members of the House of Peoples and two members of the academic community and one non-governmental sector, have only recently been fully established as prescribed by the law. The Commission held a session, discussed the report, adopted certain conclusions and started working, but still cannot expect the Agency to achieve any success without these two key factors. So, it must bring, as soon as possible, the Council of Ministers must bring a document on which to adopt the systematization, a budget on which to be able to implement the equipment of the Agency which will be able to start working and an ethical code that will help the Agency to be in full capacity and start working. So there are a few open questions. You had an opportunity to see for sure the material that the Agency's director wrote about Mr. Purić's initiative, but also the report that the Commission provided. So I think we should consider both points at the same time, but they are being led as points 12.1. and 12.2. and because the House of Peoples will watch when we adopt it and within which points, and they do not have Mr. Purić's initiative. Thank you very much. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10413	I thank the esteemed representative Dušanka Majkić, who also discussed here as a representative but, I suppose, also as rapporteur for the Agency's work monitoring committee. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10414	This is a business intervention, Chairman, to clear one thing up. So today we have received an innovative agenda and under point 13 writes the Information on the state and problems in the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, with proposals to improve the situation in this area, the Agency's material for the Prevention of Corruption and the coordination of the fight against corruption of 19. 4. In 2012, on the initiative of MP Nermin Purić, adopted at the 24th session, etc. And that's the only item on the agenda on this subject, as far as I could see from this inoculated agenda that came to us here on the table. And with regard to this material, there is a statement by the committee responsible for Parliament, which was entrusted by the College of the Representatives' House, as the Rules of Procedure otherwise foresees, which is the Constitutional Commission, and there is its opinion, and that is what the agenda is today. And it's written and I understand it that way. The truth yesterday, or today, we also got one material from this commission,... Commissions for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption, in accordance with Rule 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure, as regards the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption from 5 March 2012. There's no such material in the agenda. And what made me stand up to speak is actually intervention on the Rules of Procedure, because the Commission established under this special law, and it is called the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, is not the permanent body of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, and it has no authority to give those binding opinions to the House. It can be done by the committee in charge of this house. Her intelligence is located within the Agency itself. She has the right to do this job within the Agency and is clear to her name and jurisdiction in law. Therefore, it is the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption. With this material called the Five Report. 3. In 2012, there is no opinion from the committee in charge of Parliament, so I suppose it should be ustavnopravni again, or some of which you say it is, I don't care what you decide, but it's certainly not this commission. So there is no opinion from the committee in charge, but there is a report from the Commission which is actually one sui generis commission, a special commission that is in charge of this agency alone, but this is not a permanent parliamentary working body and has no authority as to what permanent parliamentary working bodies have, so I have no objection to bringing all of this together, but this other material is not ready for discussion because there is no indication of the committee responsible, so we are left to discuss the Information on the request of Mr Purić, which is the opinion of the committee in charge. That's it, thank you. I'd like to ask the College to answer this question that I've raised, if we knew what we're talking about. That's it, thank you. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10415	I thank the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović. I can only say that yesterday at my session, the College decided that these two materials should be merged into one and that today the Commission's report, whose rapporteur was Dušanka Majkić, which also applied for the replica, is being discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10416	I ask my colleagues to understand that the Commission has started working on a law that has been very problematic. We tried to work on it yesterday and fix it, but we didn't have,... since there were no directors, Mr. Tihić asked that point to be considered at the next session. This is the Commission to which the Agency submits its report. It means an independent commission, as we had just before an independent committee visiting prisons, so is this independent commission to which the Agency reports. The fact is that it does not say in the law that the commission, which has a four-year mandate, which coincides with the mandate of the Parliament, does not say that the commission is sending a report to Parliament. But that's the thing that's in the process and we need to change it, because it's not the Agency's report to send it to the commission, it's the House that's the founder of this commission. We can't even adopt a report like this, but I don't think it would be right, because the Agency made the report. The Commission analysed it, adopted certain conclusions. I think it would be bad... and what kind of message it would be to discuss this, because in the end, can we make it possible... and will send those conclusions that will allow this agency to finally function.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10417	Thank you. The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative Nermin Purić, on the basis of whose initiative is...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10418	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10419	I'm sorry, I haven't seen the replica, so maybe she's been pushed too late. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10420	It's not my intention to vaccinate. I don't mind if we discuss both material. I am only talking about the procedures that are present here in Parliament and which must be respected. The Agency for Prevention shall submit a report to this Commission on the designation and monitoring of work. But both this Commission and the Agency report to Parliament and then it goes to Parliament's competent working body. That's what I'm saying. Therefore, this Commission for the designation and monitoring of work cannot take the powers of a permanent parliamentary body and that it is known. And as for today's material, I don't mind at all. It's the same conclusions and the same problems, the problem needs to be solved. I accept that, there's no problem. I'll talk about it when I get here where my discussion is, I'm right here on this replica. Who put me up in the discussion? In fact, it goes off and when this replica is turned on, the discussion is off. I'll re-apply for the discussion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10421	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10422	... I don't mind Mr. Džaferović thinking about this commission and its role she thinks she does, but that's his opinion. So, College, if we listened carefully, it said in what way, maybe it was a mistake not to formulate it a) and b), subpoints etc., but I don't think it's too much to have this report. If this House of Representatives is not interested in these reports, excellently, we will finish it ourselves and do our job in accordance with the law. No problem at all. And we don't need any competent committees, Mr. Džaferović. This is a commission that's just been formed as an independent committee, and you can think what you want, so we don't think we owe it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10423	Here's finally the proposer of this point to get the word. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10424	Thank you, Chairman. I hope we're clear on what we're gonna do. Personally, I have no problem discussing both the Report and the Information. Both of these documents match well, because they can't be different. I expected it, and I don't know why it's not our practice, that whoever submits information and reports, etc. First, he gets the word for the opening statement, then the commissions and the discussions start. I think it would be a contribution to rationalising the debate, because we will re-establish the same thing, which is, therefore, that the Agency in question, so the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency is not working, that it is formed as a result of our obligation, when it comes to visa-free regime. And it's not the first, and neither seems to be the last agency, or institution to be formed pro-form, without the real intention of giving her all the resources she needs to function normally. It is a short-term solution, but in the long term it brings us into trouble just like the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces and everything else that is already slowly beginning to come to mind. So, we had the situation that the Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for its implementation were first developed and that they were adopted before the Agency was formed, so they were appointed leadership. And it's not the first time we've prepared the rye and everything and then we go hunting for the rabbit. The situation with the Agency is next. So, the Agency has no basic personnel, no material assumptions that it works. In front of her, an extremely large and responsible job was put before her. And I can't understand the treatment of the Agency any other way than by delaying what is imminent for us, and that means an open and comprehensive fight against corruption 92 that flourishes in this society and with which we, whether we want it or not, will have to catch a stake as soon as possible, especially if we want to take any step forward in terms of European integration of our country. Can this task be answered by the Agency who has been waiting so long for the basic documents that are supposed to work for her? Could this challenge be answered by the Agency which has practically the Director and his deputies for so long and which depends, that is, on whose fate depends on the will of the Council of Ministers who persistently refuse to adopt that regulation, from us who avoid adopting this BiH budget for 2012, first for 2011, etc.? I don't think that a finger should be resisted at all by the people who run the Agency, but that the finger should first be put against the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as the most responsible institutions for establishing basic mechanisms so that the Agency can function. Since we spent a lot of time at earlier discussions, etc., I wouldn't particularly discuss this agenda point. If I can find my way through these papers, I'll read three conclusions that I delivered earlier for the last session. So, the conclusion first, if we agree that it's too high, I think maybe now from this perspective and that it is, but, so: '1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives accepts the Information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency. 2. The BiH Council of Ministers and the Agency is tasked with taking all necessary activities to put the Agency in full operation and to meet the objectives set in the Anti-Corruption Strategy and implement the action plan. 3. The Commission shall be responsible for selecting and monitoring the Agency's work every six months, and, where appropriate and within a short period, shall report to the House of Representatives on progress in the work of the Agency." So, the Agency to this committee within this time limit, as I understand it, and delivers this report. So this report should also be held regularly at Parliament. And I think that by adopting these conclusions, or possibly in combination with the conclusions that the Commission has delivered, I think that we would achieve what we can do most at this point, which is to establish the work of this agency and give it money to work through the budget of the BiH institution for 2012. And I think that every debate and everything that would be out of the question is unrealistic at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10425	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10426	I'll take it very briefly, because I've already spent my time through these replicas and so on. So today we have two materials that are practically very related and we talk about the same thing. So, this document called the Work Report is more than one inventory of problems that the Agency is not 93 able to breathe in and work with full capacity, but rather the Work Report. People have done what they could, education, communication, public relations, etc., but essentially that part of the establishment of a human resources structure is capable of working on jobs, which are why the Agency was founded, unfortunately, we are not, so that these two materials absolutely do not exclude each other. So, I said, when we talked about this about the Independent Commission for Prison Control, etc., that this is a general problem in establishing new institutions. We make the law, the decision, and it's done. ... Let's forget it. We think these people can handle it on their own. So no co-operation, no coordination, no understanding for the start of these institutions. And then after a year, two days, that pass very quickly, we ask what this agency is doing, what it's doing, what it's doing, etc. So it's up to us, and it's up to us. As for the Commission's work, Ms. Majkić said that she had just started working. No, we, Mrs. Majkić, worked at full capacity, we didn't have that man, if you remember that we suggested some rank lists here, etc. which was said, and the choice was made as it was done, it doesn't matter now, it's behind us. It is important, and to me it was very important that Parliament has these two documents, except for this Nermin and at the request of Nermin, that it has a Report, it is not excess and it speaks of where we are. As far as the conclusions are concerned, I can't say anything new, nor will I suggest, by saying that we supported the Commission, Mrs Majkić, all of these conclusions in some way, with this third conclusion, which was proposed in the report, being quite vague, undefined, this DOP, so on. DOP. I've been talking, here, both yesterday and today with the assistant minister, clearing up, and by now it's still not clear what the treatment of the Agency is, this document indicative of the budget, etc. I hope it will finally settle. And that's why we asked a parliamentary question today that the Council of Ministers tell us why we haven't given consent for a year at the Agency's regulations. It's not over if the Agency writes that some optimal number of its structure is 30, 35, 40, it doesn't matter. It employs as much as possible and employs what has financial resources. So it's long-term planning, it's a vision of the Agency's leadership that the Agency has full capacity when it has one, two, three sectors, when it has such a structure of employees, and it's some vision. And she's been realizing for years. So there are no institutions, I believe in BiH, at the level of BiH that has full coverage of the systematisation, because these were the reasons why the Ministry of Finance did not give any positive opinion, etc., so it is the agreement. And really please, there's the finance minister, and I'm asking the Council of Ministers to really get this thing done and these people get a chance to work, and then we can call them and tell them that they have a job to do. As far as I'm concerned, I will accept and support these conclusions, but it is important for Parliament to support this process to establish this prevention agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10427	Replica, dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10428	I mean, as far as the Agency is concerned, the birds on the branch know more about what's going on. And I think we're unnecessarily exhausted and we're going round and round and round and round and round, and we're the most responsible for why the Agency is in this state that it is in today. As far as we were concerned and how many 94 were there for us to fight corruption and to fight corruption, I saw all of us, because no one has tabled an amendment to the budget that is the basic document so that this agency can function to grant it some funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10429	Planned.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10430	Planned funds, yes. Mr. Sead, I think he's happy with the 2012 budget. And if we adopt this budget tonight, we think the Agency will also function. What we've heard so far, and probably what we're going to hear from these five, six of my dear colleagues, I think it's too much of a waste of time, because all these birds on the branch know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10431	Every item of the agenda is open. Every MP has the right to sign up and say what he thinks about it. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10432	Mr. Chairman, we have a positive day for this, I hope that those who are also proposing and those who are full of mouths will be in favour of fighting corruption and preventing corruption in BiH, which unfortunately holds an infamous first place in Europe and even in the Western Balkans, and also in the world, will have a very worrying position, as of today, by voting for the budget to create assumptions for implementation, so in accordance with the law, the work of this agency and the Action Plan and the Anti-Corruption Strategy in BiH. I think it's necessary, after adopting this budget, to see this situation realistically. I don't think it's just a reason for not adopting this systematization. The fact that the budget was not adopted I think it's objective that the proposings had too ambitious demands in terms of the systematization of the number of employees and now it needs to be objectified according to the budgets. A significant message needs to be sent in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So yesterday we heard that Montenegro is starting negotiations for EU membership, so they have made credible progress in this regard. It is necessary to do everything, at all levels of government, that all institutions reduce and process all cases of corruption, from BiH level to the lowest, therefore local communities. Corruption is a worrying situation and the loss of faith of BiH citizens, corruption is a huge spending of budgets, public funds, which brings us into deeper poverty and reduces any interest of foreign investors. It is necessary to do everything to reduce corruption in public procurement, in public institutions, in education, in health care and at all levels where it is present. In order for this to be possible, the functioning of all institutions, first and foremost of all, and this Agency, in accordance with the law, and all institutions investigated at all levels of government, is necessary. We can send a message when those involved in any kind of corruption are in accordance with the law. Thank you very much. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10433	Thank you. Dear colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10434	Well, I won't be long, as my colleague Darko Babalj said, but we all know how corruption took place in BiH. We all know that all relevant international factors have marked BiH as one country in transition with a high degree of corruption. That's one very good reason for all of us here in this House to ask ourselves how far we've come. We see that we've come, that the shift is very small. The Agency's people have just been established. They practically don't even have the conditions to work. I would just like to say to this occasion, here's what started, the European Commission has initiated for our visa-free regime to raise the issue of bringing it into line by saying this very important issue of corruption. We need as parliamentarians, here's what my colleague and Lazar and Darko Babalj said and they all said, and I'll say, let's say again, that we simply need to strengthen the Anti-Corruption Agency and Parliament and all relevant factors in the state, because without it there really is nowhere ahead. No Niko from the EU is seriously investing in this country, which is practically leading corruption. That's ridiculous, I mean. Of course, corruption is one true social evil. We all know that it's spread in all segments of society, and in health care, and in school, we've recently had affairs, is it, at universities. Of course, all these factors should be taken into account and indeed help this agency to strengthen in the best possible way. It's a little personal appeal of mine, as I would say, that we simply help people to function.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10435	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10436	The Internal Organisation and Money Regulation, that is the purpose and that is the meaning of the conclusions of both the Information and the Report. The Constitutional Commission is that, but also from the proposal for the Commission's conclusions on selection and monitoring of work. I stood up to say that the information requested by Mr. Purić's initiative was being discussed by the Constitutional Commission, that she supported it. I propose that this be done together with the Report and the House of Representatives and that these conclusions be adopted, which relate to them, there are more, these happiest ones should be found, my colleague Purić has proposed conclusions, there are those proposed in the reports concerning the urgent granting of consent to the 'Internal Organisation' and the insurance of funds. Thank you. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10437	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10438	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we've been almost every time, I don't know when we haven't, over some point that directly tangs this issue, discussed corruption. Of course it's basic here to build an institution. The institution needs funds, of course selected people, organisational structure and independence of the institution. But one question to me is whether there is real political will in BiH to get into the fight against corruption and organised crime. It won't be worth these institutions we're forming, we're establishing. We've established a series of institutions that haven't produced results. They are inefficient because they do not enter a serious fight against corruption. Let's remember the results of the judiciary, let's remember the results of the prosecution, the courts, the SIPA, if you want the police. Today in BiH, there is no finger where there is no crime. You can't put a finger on that there's no crime. Someone here mentioned education, Mrs. Spremo. Well, there's such a crime that it's surprising, that sometimes I think we're normal people. Tens of millions earn individual private universities, and with these universities we all know publicly that they are related political personalities, or private colleges, hold sons-in-laws of large political figures, or relatives, brothers, etc., etc. Gentlemen, we know all that, but there's no political will to get in with it. There are hundreds of political applications in the police, and in the prosecution, etc., so no one takes any serious action. Therefore, I am afraid of the fact that regardless, I am absolutely forming this institution, of course with a normal number of people who will work there and professional people, and not to delegate the parties of their staff there, without looking at the aspect of the profession and the knowledge of the problem, but I am afraid of the fact that this institution will also show one ineffectiveness. And the reason for that is the lack of a real legitimacy. We don't have legislation, we don't have coordination. I mentioned today the law on budget spending control. We don't have that law. NGOs have given their reports. After all, we are also familiar with many segments of the area that the Public Procurement Act actually creates a suitable basis for crime and corruption. So, we do not get this law on Parliament to discuss it, to involve experts, not only from this assembly, but experts from practices that know these problems and to prevent such a possibility. So there's no political will. And not to mention a number of segments in society that are abundant in corruption and organised crime, especially where corruption appears. He shows up where the money is. So customs and control authorities, inspection bodies, there appears corruption and theft of course. In my view, therefore, this matter should be coordinated between the leading shallow structures,... one operational plan, so there is a serious political will, and then of course it should take care of the institutional framework that will lead to it. And all these organs, which I mentioned, are following that institutional framework, so they're seriously following. And I don't think that's gonna happen until the EU orders us, as they ordered Tadić, as they ordered in Montenegro, so they'll order us here, so we'll start seriously thinking about these things. I don't think we're able to start that on our own. Thank you. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10439	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10440	I believe I'll be able to be brief. I want to first, although that is not the most important, but it is still important to say that in that procedural debate initiated by counterpart Džaferović, he is right. And that's what I mean, I don't want to split either, it can go like this, but since she's the shortest definition of democracy is a sign of equality between her and the procedure, it's good to stick to the procedure that's prescribed. Now let me get to the point, so when we talk about this problem that manifests itself as manifested in the fact that the agency, which should prevent and coordinate the fight against corruption, is still a de facto in the bandages, we can actually conclude one fact that is such, which is neither positive nor negative, but is so, and it is that, when it comes to this problem, it manifests a distinct difference between actions and words, between verbal and what really seems to be. We are all, not only ourselves, MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly, but everyone who works publicly in BiH, verbally in a position to fight corruption, we give full support to this fight, and the real fight is lagging behind, despite this universal verbal support for the same struggle. I have to mention, maybe two or three years ago in the Federal Parliament there was a debate on the functioning of public enterprises. In my opinion, public companies are otherwise one of the most important sources of corruption, their work and their business. There were very specific data there, indications that public money is very simple and painless, without any consequences, transformed into private. There was obvious evidence that this was done in the face of those state bodies that should react, not react. Nevertheless, here after all this information, I was on behalf of the HDZ Club proposing a conclusion to control the legality of the work of all public companies, regardless of whether anyone is closer to this party and the other one to the other. And of course, that conclusion didn't go away. This is one of the evidence that there is an express difference between a verbal approach to combating corruption and what is really done and what really seems to be the case. If that weren't the case, we wouldn't be seeing the obvious new transformation of public budget money in private through an incentive that very transparently, I'd say, giving agricultural incentives from the federal budget, so the incentive without any problem gets a man who has an 80-square apartment and doesn't even have a balcony, there's no agricultural land. Eventually, he can only fly a bee through his apartment and fly off again. And no one. So, I want to cut short and say that we should turn this verbal support, which will never be left behind when it comes to fighting corruption, into concrete acts that will allow this fight to really win. Not to get it started, because we didn't even start a real fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10441	Thank you. Comrade Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10442	Thank you, Chairman. 98 Since I'm reporting for the first time today, I'd like to say hello. Well, now I'm listening to Mr. Franjičević and I can't help but answer it, so when he makes the assessment that corruption in public enterprises is the biggest. I don't think there's anyone sitting here who hasn't been in a position to offer to the police or that they haven't heard that someone was offering something to let him go for some punishment, for this, for that, for that, it's direct corruption. And let's just say, we always say that the courts are corrupt, the media is full of it, and you mentioned it yourself in municipalities, in local administrations that there are also corruption in one way or another. I think to single out only public enterprises or to single out anyone is wrong. That's why I called to replicate. I agree, of course, and in public enterprises, public enterprises do a lot of public procurement, do a lot of it all, and so there's space that's about corruption very possible but of course it's not even close. The biggest problem in BiH, I think we have a huge system problem that's pulling away from everything. You have to say in bigger cities to bribe someone to take your child into kindergarten. So there's corruption right there, because there's no room in kindergartens and to get to the place you give someone 50 or 100 marks or what I know, etc., etc. So, from kindergarten to court, not to the highest judicial institutions in BiH, there are no segments where there is no corruption and there are no segments where they could not eradicate it. Public enterprises are a problem, but I don't think they're the biggest. So, you'd find those places around here, but you don't have to move the ball to just public enterprises.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10443	Thank you. My colleagues, we should discuss problems at the Prevention Agency so that she can fight over these problems you're talking about. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10444	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable representatives, i.e. the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Deputys and others from the Council of Ministers who are present, the Agency, corruption, problems, solutions neither in sight nor in sight, and here is why. You know who has the best solution? Those who have foreign inscriptions in their NGOs. He's telling me today that there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no. But when Transparency says we're in 106 places, and that's what all the parties out there, who finance them, they're gonna believe them and there's no investors. Now I've asked here twenty times how they do these analyses and come to this place that we're the first to corruption in Europe, the first in the world, the first out of the world, the first on the planet somewhere, and I don't know which one. But if they say we're 106, no one can deny it anymore. They said and that's it. And I'm asking, and here's what I'm saying is that we're the fourth. We were third, so we went back a little bit and now we're fourth. But no one believes what I'm saying is that we're the fourth, trusts them, and all they care about is, what would the people say, that even this burdensome atmosphere is heating up, and there's absolutely no proper research on how they came to be 106? But they came by what someone ordered them to do, tell them they're the worst, so we don't invest there, because BiH isn't, and we're a very good investment country. Countless things, Elektroprivreda is available, here you go, give money, billions of them and you'll have everything. Agriculture, invest, water, don't let us import 125 million marks, let us export. Whatever you want here, you can. Come to the investors and you have the best conditions! Maybe the smallest taxes, you get your licenses quick. But I repeat, the problem is, whatever agency we have, if Transparency says, I don't know, maybe tonight after my discussion they'll say that we're 142, and then everything falls apart. 99 So I'll cut the discussion short. If we had given all the funds lost by the prosecution and damaged BiH's budget to the Agency, they would have had more money than the Parliamentary Assembly. Because these there seem to me to be $6.8 million, 10, maybe they'll get out, lose because people have been held unjustly, accused and now every judge of BiH. I ask another question which is the same: Is there anyone who has sued BiH who has not won the dispute? I don't think there is one. Whoever he's suing for, he's been slowed down, because this country is exactly on the basis of reports like this. I'm sorry to point at you, not to you, but to wave my hands, so that tomorrow someone doesn't say, "What's this agency going to do with the information?" And yet I ask the question: On the basis of which fact, what research did they come up with that data...? So the agency, whatever it is, here's a short cut, it'll never work, because if the results, they'll have material resources tomorrow, but Transparency says 182. BiH, it's gone, bye.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10445	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10446	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by old custom, I was just commenting, you won't mind giving me a wise comment from the Honorable President, so I said he's not a free president. And here, I wanted to remind you exactly that we are discussing problems at the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and coordinating the fight against corruption. So this isn't FBI either, this agency isn't even SIPA, it's not some, I don't know, I don't know, another law enforcement body. This is the Agency that we established by law to professionally analyse the forms of corruption and propose to us and everyone else the most effective measures to reduce it. And those who should do it out of this, I think that fellow Džaferović well summed it up, in my opinion, I'm just expanding, having three problems, the key three problems. They don't have Internal Affairs Rules, and here I appeal to the Council of Ministers to give consent to this regulation as soon as possible to have this rule. It's a thing that can be easily solved. They don't have enough resources to work with. I hope we adopt this budget today, and we've solved this problem immediately. And they don't have room to work. Here's another appeal to the Council of Ministers, because they can't handle it themselves, to get rid of the proper rooms so that they can function normally, and we'll each, in our own way, be supported by someone declaratively, someone really, really, by the Agency's work. And I believe that the first assumption is that next time we could seriously discuss the Agency's report, we could provide it with minimum conditions so that it could perform its function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10447	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Did you want to? Yes, it is. Here you go. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10448	Thank you. Listening to all colleagues who had previously presented corruption and problems in the BiH area, I would agree with Mr. and colleague Slavko who has made such a nice and poetic statement, but I really think that in BiH we are dealing with really miserable, funny things and simple corruption from a cabbage head, a couple of eggs, do I, I don't know, some chocolate in the doctor's field, etc. However, what I think, indeed, Dr. Kunić said that indeed all institutions can be classified more or less, but what I think, knowing the situation on the ground from the economy, I think it is really very difficult to isolate someone. First of all, from institutions such as tax administrations, in terms of tax exemptions, there is big corruption. Then, educational institutions. When it comes to diplomas, it's a general phenomenon, it's no longer a case. When we look at the Privatisation Agency, isn't it corruption to sell a brand firm, 6 dark, 3 stamps, etc., and after five years of canceling privatisation, to say that such buyers aren't serious, that they haven't met their own, and that's corruption. I mean, public affairs, big works, big, first of all, infrastructure works, that's common knowledge, that kind of thing we have to deal with. Then, in public procurement, the election of suppliers, the million amounts, it's corruption. Then, in terms of employment, mass today whoever you're asking, it takes 5 grand, it takes 10 grand, it takes 15 grand, it takes 30 grand. I really think that's the kind of thing we have to deal with. And I think we've been hearing lately, although we have an opportunity, people work in public institutions where wages are, I can say, let's say there's a couple of thousand marks, where they got the shopping centers and they say the father-in-law helped him. I have a girlfriend, too, but I'm working on the stock market, working in the economy, in responsible places, definitely at cents working, I don't have that. I think in such large companies, even more, which employ more significant, not to say, and hundreds of workers, the minimum number of workers is secured, 10, 15 workers. It's corruption. After all, we have inspections to monitor it. Unfortunately, labour inspections say go, inspectors, at 3:00 p.m., you'll see the vans are packed with all possible props, exactly like that. ... I would really like to ask the Agency to help as much financial and personnel as possible, but to move in this direction to resolve and issues of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10449	Thank you. The next is House Chairman, Honorable Representative Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10450	Thank you. Here in the end, given that there were several MPs who discussed procedures, the Rules of Procedure and the way we should discuss the Information, let me say my opinion on how it should be done. We have put this item on the agenda according to the initiative of honourable MP Nermin Purić. And that's exactly the point of the agenda. The material for such a single item of the agenda could be obtained from the Agency prepared by the Agency, and on the basis of the law adopted in this House, our Commission for Selection and Monitoring is considering a report on the Agency's work. We should consider it, although it is not written in the law, but I do believe in business that it is correct: to consider the report on the work of our commission. In 101 of this case, the Commission should not have submitted a Report on the Agency's Report but would have given us another material that would be necessary for this item of the agenda. So when they come, and probably according to the discussions of MPs and others, that in relation to this item of the agenda regarding the Agency, they will come to the agenda of various materials, our commission, which was formed by this Parliament -- it is not an independent committee, as we previously discussed in terms of monitoring, the conditions of staying in the institutions, where some other people, where these MPs are -- should give an opinion on the materials that are related to the Anti-Corruption Agency, as every committee here gives a report on its work every year and here we are adopting these reports in Parliament, this commission should also deliver its work report and thus overcome these things. There are new agencies, there are new things, there are new things, and this commission is still not involved in all this, but I think this is the way we could and these doubts that we had today, whether we're going to vote on our Commission's report or we're going to vote on the Agency's work report – we're going to overcome it. This Parliament does not discuss the Agency's work report, because it is a task under the law of the Commission of Parliament. This parliament should discuss a report on the work of our commission. Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10451	I'm sorry, I think this is too serious. So, it's a fundamental question of being people in these areas of corruption and organized crime. Let's not wait for Kacin to come in due time, when we get into a certain phase, and say please, you have a crime here, here, here, here, here, let's work it out, and we'll talk about European integration. I think this deserves a special debate of this House. We're pretty tired now, and that's point six. I think that this point and some similar, let's say a report on the work of the judiciary, that these points should be connected, connected and called up a special session and discussed. Here in the debates there are a series of ideas that should be used, so articulate, formulate and start certain activities in this direction. This will stay, I'm afraid, just a dead letter on paper. I know that the institution is the most important, absolutely, that at this point we should approach the organisation of the institution and agree that the procedure, Mr Franjičević said, is the procedure of a great friend of justice, and the cursed enemy of falsehood and injustice. Thus, it is important and certainly in this case has this material and content aspect. I think that's where we should, I don't suggest, let the Kolegijum think about these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10452	I suggest you formulate what you said in terms of the conclusion that we could vote on within this item of the agenda. Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am concluding this item on the agenda. Moving to point 14. 102 Ad. 14. Analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes On the occasion of Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 20th session of the House, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the Court of BiH delivered materials that constitute an analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes cases. The relevant Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 8. Five at the 27th session, 10.5. At the proposal of MP Aleksandra Pandurević, the debate was postponed until this session. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10454	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to consult with my colleagues, and at the application of the D.A.'s Office, we are asked to take this point, and since it is already too late, and a lot of participants want to discuss it, to postpone it for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10455	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote for an esteemed colleague. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 24, "against" four, "restricted" one. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that Parliament has decided to postpone the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Declaration on Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative from the 25th session of the House of Representatives At the 25th session, the MP submitted this initiative. You have received the opinion of the committee responsible for European integration. The Joint Commission proposes to adopt the following conclusion to Dom: - An initiative by Parliamentarian Senad Šepić is supported: 'To prepare and maintain, as soon as possible, a special thematic session of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly entitled: The current position of BiH on the European path – meeting the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and meeting the assumptions for the submission of an application for EU membership. 103 Honored colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10457	Well, here I am just, it's a matter of technical nature, as a rapporteur in front of the Commission for European Integration. We were very supportive yesterday of our colleague Senad Šepić. I think this is a very important question. So, the Commission for European Integration sees such one thematic session as very important to be held. And we all agreed that yesterday we should hold on. And I thought we'd make a technical correction, but you read this new proposal correctly... Mr. Šepić's proposal, because it was otherwise formulated on the previous agenda, so I thought I'd do it technically. But you've already done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10458	I thought you were going to add 'in the light of the budget'. Okay. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Extending the mandate of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the spending of donor funds The investigation committee has requested an extension of its mandate. He proposed to the College of the House an extended college, which he also agreed to extend the mandate to 15. Seven. In 2012, given that after that we have another session and then an annual vacation takes place. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, Slavko Jovičić, you're a member of the Commission, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10460	Well, there's no press, I don't know how much effect it's going to have. I want to resign to work on this committee, because this is more groundless. So I'll wait for the next session, but to be at the beginning to at least have someone announce that I resigned.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10461	Okay. 104 We move to the 17th point: Ad. 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Readmission Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey You have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And point 18: Ad. 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the 15th Agreement 12. 2011 concerning the Loan Agreement and the project of 23. 2. 2012 for 71,000,000,00 euros between KfW, Frankfurt on Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred by the Croatian Community Herceg-Bosnia" d.d. Mostar (EP HZHB) (Agency for the Implementation of the Project) – Vjetropark Mesihovina
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10466	... So it can be in the package, from I to VII. in the spending page can be in the package. VIII. and IX. Especially.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-24-0.u10467	Thank you. I'm putting the first two amendments to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 10, "against" 27, "restricted" two. I find that two amendments on the revenue side have not been accepted. We vote on amendments I to VII, including VII, on the expenditure side, in the package. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 10, "against" 27, "restricted" three. These amendments didn't get any support either. We vote on amandman vi. on the spending side. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 15, 'against' 23,'restricted' two. I find that this amendment has not received support either. And finally, we're voting on amandman IX.. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 107 "For" 15, "against" 23, "abstained" two. I find that this amendment has not received support either. We are now voting on the amandman of the Honorable Fellow Božo Ljubić. Is there any need for me to read the Amendment? There isn't. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 12, "against" 18, "abstained" nine." This amendment has not passed. We're voting right now on the amandman of the distinguished colleague Mate Franjičević. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" six, "against" 30, "restricted" three. This amendment has not been supported. We're voting on the amendments of our esteemed colleague, Niko Lozančić. Amendment I. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 15, 'against' 22,'restricted' three. This amendment has not been supported. We vote on amandman II.. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 16, 'against' 22,'restricted' two. This amendment was not supported either. And we vote, finally, on amandman III.. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 16, 'against' 22,'restricted' two. This amendment was not supported either. We are now voting on the proposals for the Drago Kalabić amendment. Amendment I.. biti it in the package? [[Common discussion]] So the promoter suggests in the package. Okay, so we vote in the package, from I. to IV. Please prepare for the vote. 108 You Can Vote, Now! 'For' 22, 'against' 13,'restricted' five. We don't have enough support from the Federation. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 23, "against" 12, "restricted" five. There are no 19 votes "against" or 10 "against." These amendments were adopted from I to IV. We are now voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2012 in the second reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. 'For' 31, 'against' eight,'restricted' one. Enough entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions for 2012, with amendments adopted. We vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed colleague Mirza Kušljugić, who reads: 'The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge to find the possibility to locate 200,000 at 614300 – Programmes for the preparation of projects and potential candidates for EU-FP7 funding.' Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" two, "abstained" six. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: Report of the College's Commission on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Review of BiH Institutions (second reading) We vote in the second round on the Proposal for a Law in the Second Reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" 12, "restricted" two. I find that the bill of law was passed in the second reading. We move to 7th point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Salary and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in First Reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 109 "For" 28, "against" 10, "abstained" two. I find that we passed the bill in the first reading. We move to the 8th point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics of the Joint Commission. I remind you that opinion is negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against" 23, "restricted" three. I find that we have not adopted the Commission's negative opinion and the draft law returns to the Commission. 9th point: Report by the Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions We vote on the adoption of the Report. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 38, there weren't two abstentions. I understand we've adopted the report. We move to the 10th point: Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or by an international contract signed by BiH or by another court in accordance with BiH law for a period of 14. Nine. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2011, we voted on the proposal for the conclusions of Parliament Dušanka Majkić. If there's a need to read them, there's two. [[Common discussion]]
